ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she was prevented from attending the session of MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely for Monday, therefore, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, proposals for the completion of the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision to adopt an annual plan on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 147 MPs for – two, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda a draft decision on the participation of Serbian military members in multinational operations in 2018, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against them, has voted against 151 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 March 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 March 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against - two, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 27 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the national qualifications framework of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted on 19 March 2018, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against - two, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 29 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Educational Inspection, which was submitted on 19 March 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against - two, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 30 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the registration procedure of the Water immovableity Katastar, which was submitted on 19 March 2018, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against one, has voted against the abstentions, with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlić proposed to put on the agenda as an emergency procedure – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the implementation of the elections for the Council of the City of Belgrade, held on 4 March 2018, from the day of the publication of the final results, which were submitted to the National Assembly on 22 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted 150 MPs for -11. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts and circumstances of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice" which took place in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for 16, and there is no one who has ever voted 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade, as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: five, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: five, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 159 MPs for four. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement in Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the cause of huge losses, which is being achieved by Er Serbia, the commitments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Etihad have towards Er Serbia total business loss, from 2013 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to Er Serbia, in the same period and the harmfulness of the contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Etihad and the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session agenda – a proposal for the resolution of Veroljub Arsic from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Regulation of the way pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 161 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that indicate the link between Aleksandr Vukic and Andrej Vukic, with the rightful convicted drug dealer Aleksandr Stanković, called Sale Mutavi and the forced takeover of the luxury restaurant "Franš" in Belgrade, management rights over IT companies of the IT industry Alti/VIN-VIN, Prointer and Energosoft, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reason for the huge losses incurred by "Zelezara" Smederevo from 2014 to today, the total amount of State aid granted to "Gelezari" Smederevo in the same period and the damage to all contracts concluded by the Government in connection with the business of "Zelezare", which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine whether opposition civil movements, minority parties and opposition parties were won during the elections held on 24 April 2016, stolen and registered as votes to the electoral lists Aleksandar Vucic – Serbia wins, Ivica Dačić – SPS, JS – Dragan Marković Palma and Dr Vojislav Seselj – SRS, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, voted for—seven against—seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to see the overall election material of the 2017 presidential elections and to determine whether the election material contained anomalies and what they consisted of, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 163 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of bankruptcy carried out over the mining-topic base Bor, the reasons for the huge losses incurred by RTB Bor, the total amount of State aid granted to RTB Bor and the harmfulness of the plan for the reorganisation of RTB Bor, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, voted 161 people's messenger, for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the public company "Srbigas", as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the public undertaking "Srbigas", began from the establishment of the company in 2015 until today, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the opinion committee to identify the facts relating to the irregularities in voting and circumstances which led to this and marked the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic of 2017, in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? He's not present. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted before 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the origin of the money that Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin bought an apartment in Belgrade, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Does the MP want a word? He's not present. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted before 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not present. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does the MP want a word? He's not present. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does the MP want a word? He's not present. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not present. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted before 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Provisional Editing of the Baseline for the Account and Payment of Salaries, i.e. Profits and Other Permanent Receipts of Public Assets, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not present. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Dusan Pavlovic and Saša Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 22 June 2017. Does MP Dusan Pavlovic want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted before 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2017. Does MP Dusan Pavlovic want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 June 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted before 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, Dr Ratko Jankov and Mr Jasmina Nikolic, on the basis of article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2017. Does MP Dusan Pavlovic want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Capital, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade 3/4MZ/LJL the fourth “Savavala” and the fact of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities, who submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does the MP want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. There was no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding suspected transactions of the Serbian Progressive Party, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the parliamentary elections in 2014 and the presidential elections in 2017, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine, none of the messengers of 156. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to establish facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Skoda” of the Ministry of Interior, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine, and there is no vote of 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the reconstruction of Slavi Square and the construction of a music fountain, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them; there is no vote of 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine how the defence minister in the Serbian government, Mr Aleksandar Vulin, acquired a 107m-square-euro apartment in Belgrade, worth 244.620 euros, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine, and there is no vote of 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the project of investment investment investment in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Belgrade in connection with the signing of an agreement on the construction of a burner in Vinca, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for ten. 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to establish facts relating to human trafficking in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, etc. "Yellow House", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMC Kruševa factory "14. October", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human victims and material and immaterial damages in the Serbian territory in 2014, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. There was no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the privatisation of the PKK, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of US and SR Germany's embassies, which were attacked on 21 February 2008 during the Kosovo is Serbia protest, as well as responsibility for both the former and current holders of the highest state functions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstention – has voted 158. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of the Chinese company Mei Ta in Baric, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract for the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstention – has voted 158. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the contract between the Republic of Serbia and the company "Al Raw International Investment", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee in order to determine the facts of the circumstances and responsibilities for the untrue presentation of the situation in relation to the level of aflatoxin in milk and corn, which caused considerable material and immaterial damage in the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I'm putting the motion back on the table. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has voted 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the Serbian government and Etihad Airways on the establishment of air traffic undertakings Er Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted 151. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within the framework of Željzara Smederevo 2015, which resulted in a loss of around 150m euros at the annual level, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has voted 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the way the governor of the NBS, Ms. Jorganko Tabaković, obtained a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad of 144 m2, for which Telekom Serbia took on board the remaining debt to mention the apartment of 77,700 euros, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted 151. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Dual Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 150. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Regulation of the Way of Pensions, which 22 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2018. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – four, against – no one with abstention – 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30526	Yes, this is part of three laws related to local elections and are motivated by recently held local elections in Belgrade and several other cities and municipalities of Serbia. These elections have once again shown the lack of legislation that regulates this area, and this package of laws, these three laws that I have proposed, relate precisely to the removal of these shortcomings in this legislation. First of all, these draft laws, amendments and additions to the law, provide for a direct choice as mayor, i.e. the president of the municipalities, and this requires a change in the way the council is elected. What do we want to achieve with these amendments to the law? First of all, he wants to return face-to-face with elections, or candidates for committees, for local committees, and to reduce the high degree of depersonalisation of policy, which promotes this electoral law, where citizens do not know who they vote for, or who is on the lists. In this way, citizens are led astray who will be mayor. Here, three weeks after the elections in Belgrade, despite a convincing victory by the SNS, we still do not know who will be mayor of Belgrade, the mayor of the city that is most important both in politics and economics, because 40% of GDP is produced in Serbia's capital. How did we have this delusion best illustrated by one city traffic anecdote only one day after the election between our older fellow citizens, where one asked the other – and who will now be President of the Republic when Aleksandar Vukic was elected mayor? The amendments to the law on selecting committees should encourage within party competition, to reduce the level of almost exclusive responsibility of candidates towards party summits and this would lead to their imminent turn towards citizens. How could that be done? This could be done by introducing a preferential vote, i.e. a placement, so to speak, would not depend on the election schedule, but on how many votes a candidate would receive individually. These principles should also apply to the electoral law, for the election of MPs, and we will propose these amendments in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30527	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, and there is no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 MPs for – five. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 May 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of - four against - 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – five, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Real Estates, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of—four against—no one who is abstentioned has voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – five, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 August 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of - four against - 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkić, on 23 February 2018. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30528	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, the three of us have proposed to amend the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System in the Republic of Serbia at a point that regulates the obligations and responsibilities of the local self-government units in relation to the payment of personal incomes to persons in education. Namely, you all know there have been problems across Serbia in all units of local self-government when it comes to paying jubilee rewards to educational and transportation employees, i.e. paying transportation costs for primary and secondary school employees. This is a unique case that in one area of employment, in this case employees of primary and secondary schools, their employer is the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, a republican level, and one part of these personal incomes related to jubilee awards and transport costs to and from work are the obligations of units of local self-government. Simply, what is the state of the budgets of local self-government, on the one hand, and on the other hand as insufficient jurisdiction, i.e. units of local self-government do not have direct jurisdiction over primary and secondary schools, in any sense, this obligation regarding the payment of personal benefits and transport costs has been seen as an alternative obligation, and there is almost no local self-government in Serbia, or this is a rare example, that there has been no delay in the payments of jubilee and transport costs and that there have been no large number of cases and lawsuits by persons in education for the non-execution of these obligations, and therefore, much greater damage to the budget of these local self-governments, i.e.e. in general by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We have suggested that these two items, which are now the obligations of units of local self-government, be deleted and that this be transferred to the responsibility of the employer, i.e. the chief employer of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia, that, in addition to paying salaries and all other social benefits to the employees in education, this be the obligation and payment of jubilee and transport costs, because it is logical on the one hand. On the other hand, it will partially disburse the problems of local self-government budgets and give them, let me say, a little more space for some other things, above all in the area of local investment. That's why I invite you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30529	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, eight, against them, who has no vote of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point-by-point motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic, Slavisa Ristic, Dejan Sukic and Djordje Vukadinovic, on 5 July 2016. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30530	Dear People's MPs, this is a unique opportunity, of course, it has been several times so far, this proposal has been on the agenda, i.e. as a proposal to expand the agenda, but I think, in a delicate political situation where Serbia is, in this kind of pressure that we have been experiencing for years ago, and especially in recent months on the territorial integrity of our country, we need, above all, the mobilisation of all internal, primarily patriotic forces. One of sure, not a large number, but one of the most significant and certain issues that almost no one in this country has a different view of this matter is the issue of condemnation of the crime of genocide in NDH during World War II. You all know that during the period of NDH existence from 1941 to 1945, mass crimes were committed, above all, against Serbs, Jews and Roma. In the whole story, the largest number, the convincingly highest percentage of those killed in the camps, was Serbian nationality. Unfortunately, after nearly 80 years of these terrible crimes, the Serbian nation, the queen of the Serbian people, has not condemned and named these crimes by any act. As it has been so many years, and as Croatia's current state is growing and increasingly and increasingly loudly hearing words that point to the full denial or neglect of this crime or its complete demining, I think it is the right time for the descendants of those killed beastly in those camps to vote this kind of resolution, which will call the real name NDH attempts to completely shut down the Serb animal in that territory. To remind you, the Convention on Genocide, which was adopted in the UN in 1948, states that the intention, the intention to destroy the entire nation or part of that nation is to neglect, abuse and murder, baptism and similar forms of abuse are treated by genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30531	I thank my colleague Lapčević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for nine, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkić, on 2 November 2016. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30532	Unfortunately, what I've been saying before, it seems to me that it hasn't reached the ears of many, and I think it's another one in a series of shames that we as a people are experiencing, but well, I guess there'll come a better time when we'll be more aware that we need to take care of ourselves more. We have proposed a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development for one single reason, which is to correct injustice against small producers, cattlemen who have a small number of cattle throats and who cannot achieve the limit provided for in the Encouragement Act, i.e. to regulate premiums on the quantity of milk delivered. In the current Law, which has been in force since 2013, milk premiums can only be made by those agricultural holdings that quarterly hand over at least three thousand liters of milk. It is likely that most of you know that across Serbia, especially in western and eastern Serbia, there are a huge number of households, mostly older households that have one or two cattle and cannot, on this basis, reach that limit of three thousand liters of milk quarterly and, of course, their milk is less valuable than neighbours, who, for example, have five throats, because its milk is premiumed by the state, is rewarded and more expensive for some seven to eight dinars per litre. I consider this injustice to be an injustice to people who suffer the same way by surviving in the country, and unfortunately, in most cases, these committed somewhat less than that prescribed amount of three thousand gallons of milk quarterly, it is also the only source of income for a huge number of households and practically this law corrects these injustices and has one very human and social component. It's the survival of these households and their normal lives for as long as possible. That's why I'm asking you not to divide people into those who produce larger quantities and smaller quantities. There are ways the state can encourage young farmers and large producers, but this should not be done in this way by discrimination of small, mostly old households, which cannot reach that limit of three thousand liters of milk and whose milk is not rewarded, dominated by the state in that amount that is very important to them. I call upon you, please, to have the understanding of this and to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30533	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 144 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30534	This is a familiar subject for everyone. I'll see if I can explain it as soon as possible. It doesn't take a lot of words to waste. I believe that this proposal of mine will come upon your support, precisely because the last ten days have been an actual story about the fostering of the talent and the currentisation of the problem that in Serbia, unfortunately, 40 to 50,000 people die more annually than they are born and that the state must focus all its strengths and all its resources on this issue of the survival of the nation. Our nation is one of the oldest nations in Europe, unfortunately under one child per family in Serbia, we have an average today and it is our obligation as a representative of citizens, representatives of the people in the National Assembly to highlight this problem and to do everything we can to help as many children as possible, of course, and that when these children finish their schools stay in the country, but above all, in order to survive as a state, there must be more of us. I welcome the government of the Republic of Serbia's measures that significantly increase the amounts for the first, second, third and fourth births. That, I believe, will have positive effects. One of the measures that requires far less funding in the budget is the measure I have proposed, which is the elimination of taxes on extra value on baby equipment and food for children. If we all swear that this is our first priority and that our children are most important to us, let's help the mothers and parents who are having children to raise them as easily as possible and not pay what the state takes from them, this value added tax, because otherwise, by analysing the budget and by the minister at one session of the board I received assurances that these funds are not relevant to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you to support this proposal and let us do something on our side to make it as many children as possible and to restore the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30535	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 146 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkić, on 8 June 2017. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30536	In the current text of the Labour and Provisions Act in Article 187, it is prescribed that, regardless of the problems that an employee has in a particular company, whether they are health or some other nature, if he is not employed permanently on an indefinite basis, the employer may fire him without any explanation, if, after a certain time, a month, as long as it takes a minimum for some treatment, he is unable to return to work because of the nature of his illness. You remember last year when one of my fellow citizens in Nis was fired because she was on a certain date, and a woman had to stay away from work for months because of the nature of her illness. It's about malignancy. The employer fired without any explanation and, of course, probably hired someone else. In order to prevent such inhumane moves and to ensure that as much as a state, we take care of our fellow citizens not to be slaves in these companies and not to be left to the good will of employers whether or not they want to extend the labour contract, we have suggested that this Article 187 be amended and that in cases of serious illness, injury and other medical conditions that require more time for the treatment of that employee, employers have an obligation to return him to work after treatment. We think it would be the only right and human move towards these people. A frog to the state hundreds of thousands of new jobs if at these jobs employers do not treat them humanely and if they are not happy people, and no one will be happy if he gets sick and fears whether tomorrow the employer will return him to work or not. On the one hand, he struggles for life, on the other hand thinking about whether he will have the existence of coping with a certain disease or injury. Please bear that in mind when pleading on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30537	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic, 5 September 2017. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30538	Under the current Budgetary System Act, Article 92b provides that the Fiscal Council, therefore, regulates the composition and jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council and provides for the Fiscal Council to be president and two members, elected by the National Assembly. The right to propose the president and those two members are, under current law, the President of the Republic, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, or Governor of the National Bank. In the face of countless illogicalities that are in different laws, on one Financial Committee, we have found that this is also the illogicality that needs to be corrected. Namely, the Fiscal Council is an independent body that should analyse the work of the main fiscal institutions in Serbia that create fiscal and monetary policy, so the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank and practically the entire government of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't make any sense that any body that needs to analyze work, for example. The finance ministry, that a proposal from a member of the body is proposed by the finance minister. It should also analyse the work of the National Bank and the measures of the National Bank, and one member of the Fiscal Council is proposed by the Governor of the National Bank. These are practically absolutely illogical things and can practically be called conflict of interest. We have suggested that this change be made and that the proposal of members of the Fiscal Council, therefore, would be proposed by the President of the Republic, as is the current law, and that these two members of the Fiscal Council are not proposed by the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, because they are dependent institutions on that Fiscal Council, but that one proposal is made by the Conference of the University of Serbia, because it is about people who are supposed to be from the profession, proven experts in the area, and that another member of the Fiscal Council proposes the Alliance of Economists of Serbia, an expert association that brings together economists and people involved in this profession. We think that only in this way will the full independence of the Fiscal Council be ensured and we will probably have better quality and analysis and suggestions and assistance to the competent institutions to do their job better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30539	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 August 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 149 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 147 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 147 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 June 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 151 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 June 2017. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – six, against – 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30540	I have proposed four laws aimed primarily at fairer social and regional distribution and this is one of these laws. Starting with key data and key problems in Serbia, it is certainly a question of the standards of our citizens, the state of poverty and starting with the data that the average salary at this time is 47,000, and the minimum consumer basket needed for the life of 36,500, we know that about 8% of our citizens, so more than 500,000 citizens in Serbia live below the poverty line. As a result, this proposal aims primarily to stimulate employers, business owners, companies, not to put their profits in the pocket by being stimulated by low tax rates on profits, but by increasing profits to their employees. This proposal implies the following thing – that the corporate income tax rate is variable and is between 10% and 30%, and in comparison with the average net earnings per employee according to statistical territorial units. So, the goal is to keep the legal person who pays 80 to 150% of the average earnings in the statistical region in which it works at an existing profit rate of 15%. For all those who pay the average earnings below 80% of the average in the statistical region, we think they should be destimulated due to such access to their workers and employees and should raise the tax rate to 30%, and for all those who pay more than 150% of the earnings compared to the average earnings in the statistical region, the tax rate should be reduced to 10%. We think it's a matter of the responsibility of the state to provide salaries to workers and employees who invest their work, who must have the right to a decent life. This is one measure, and it certainly won't solve all the accumulated economic and social problems in our society completely, but I think it's one of the things that can be done, take this move and at least some part correct the injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30541	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP, Goran Ciric, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30542	The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes, I will simplify, constitutes the inclusion of dividend incomes in incomes subject to annual income tax. So it's the same goal as the previous law. Therefore, by including dividend income in this tax, it means that a fairer relationship will be established between those who have capital and who collect capital revenues, wanting to put priority on those who live from their work and who receive compensation for their work. So, once again, the key goal is to mitigate social differences, social injustices, and I will also illustrate to you the additional information about the poverty limits and how many people in Serbia are threatened by poverty. The poverty line in Serbia is defined by a figure of 11694 dinars per month per citizen of Serbia. So, all those who have spending a month under 11,600 dinars are below the poverty line. Unfortunately, 8% of citizens in Serbia are below this percentage. As far as families are concerned, each family is four members with two children below the age of 14 if they spend less than 31,574 dinars a month. When we know that the minimum consumer basket is 36,000, we see that the percentage of 8% is much higher, so in that missing figure of 5,000 to the minimum consumer basket for the four-member family is something that will certainly include a much higher percentage. This is confirmed by the following percentages and data on citizens in Serbia – 25.4% of the population, so a quarter of the population is at risk of poverty, and 38.7% is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. This is twice the EU average and this is one of the key reasons. The most important reason why our country needs to be directed towards the EU, towards solutions that can contribute precisely to the better lives of citizens, but above all to reduce social differences in this way. That is why this bill, and I really think it would be rational to support this law and to support at all a topic that best shows the current state of society, which is simple data - the average profit, the minimum consumer basket, the consumer basket, and we hear less and less about that data. I think the public service and the media should just talk more about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30543	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30544	This bill has the same objective and certainly extends beyond trying to establish a more socially just state and state that is considering even regional development. One of the most important objectives of this law is to prevent corruption and I think it will be clear when I say what this proposal means to amend the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The first position - persons are obliged to supply data from Article 2, Article 2, twice over the year and within defined deadlines. Therefore, Article 58 adds Article 2 which reads: "A special organisational part of the tax administration is formed by means of a sublaw in the tax administration with specially trained personnel who, in collaboration with other state bodies - the Ministry of Interior, the Catastre, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration, the Central Securities Register, the APR, the Treasury Department, the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, would process the submissions, as well as verifying the applicants who have not submitted the application. “ So the goal of this law and the basic idea is to make more effective comparisons of the assets of the natural persons with their reported incomes. This will certainly achieve a higher degree of social justice and, in the next step, allow for harmonisation of tax laws with the Law of Origin and Property. I think that many parliamentary groups and many MPs have spoken, and also some of the Prime Ministers, in an exposé, in front of this assembly, that a crucial fight in the country will be the fight against corruption and the adoption of this law. 10/2AL/IĆ So, this is one of the smaller steps that can show just the willingness to start with the responsibility right from the most responsible in the country. And I have repeatedly explained this bill to you and given you one example and the way it is visible, very often visible on the streets that it is difficult to justify the property that appears only in the fleet of certain people and without any income and without any tax obligations to the state and without any origin of the property. When we leave this hall assembly, one example is that you have MPs who, for example, from 1990 to 2012, spent 22 years in the Assembly, that average earnings, in the 1990s when there were sometimes five euros or 10 marks, and up to now 700 or 800 euros in value, are on average 500 euros, for a year that means legal income 500 euros times 12 months is 6,000 euros, times 22 years, 120 plus 12, 132,000 euros. And you see the property that's hard to cover with total income, that nothing has even been eaten, that it hasn't been spent on bills and standard life. I think it's primarily our responsibility to establish a model like this in which everyone will answer and argue with their incomes to the tax administration for the property he owns.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30545	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—16 against—no one has voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30546	I've already said that one of the key motives for passing these laws is primarily more just social distribution, but also regional distribution. What regional distribution we have and the way we live in Serbia can be seen from this simple map showing profit data in Serbia's districts. Only four areas in Serbia have an average profit above the average of the Republic of Serbia. These are the South Baba area, the Southbanat region, the Belgrade area and the Borska region. All other areas in Serbia are with average earnings below the average earnings in Serbia. It's not easy to remove by one law or by one change of law, but this is one of the simplest ways that we can do and show some effects in a fairer distribution. This proposal implies that the local self-government unit belongs to the following taxes achieved on its territory, as it is so far, 74% of the income tax paid to the employee's residence, but belongs to the proportional amount of taxes employed in the entire Republic of Serbia in the public sector because it is fair for all citizens in Serbia to have the right to this type of tax and contribution, from people working in the MUP, Vojsci, EPS, public sector, state systems, which give a product to Serbia as a whole, but are also funded by all citizens of Serbia. It is unfair for their incomes, which are mostly realised in the largest centers, to be realized and seen only in the streets or effects in the cities where they live. I think that part of the revenue needs to be redistributed to the whole of Serbia much fairer and this is the total amount, the estimated estimated is about 300m euros, meaning that it is divided into seven million people on an annual basis, which is about 43 euros per capita of an annual higher income for all local self-government in Serbia. As important as this is, it is best to know people in the cities and municipalities of Serbia who, of course, want better health care, better healthcare institutions because for a city of 10,000 people, this would mean about 430 thousand euros more per year in the budget, which means that some health institutions could be arranged with these funds, to improve the quality of education, so that they could invest in kindergartens and all the facilities that are relevant to the life of citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30547	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 147 MPs for – 12 against – the abstentioned ones. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on NBS, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30548	This is one of the proposals that I really can't understand why we don't have the support or the consent of something that's so visible and so clear. The proposal is for Article 86b of the NBS Act to be deleted, and it reads – National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damage incurred in the conduct of the business in the NBS unless it is proved that they did not act in good faith. So it is really hard to understand that we as a legislative body are giving up the expectation of responsibility for people who work in such an important institution, in any institution in Serbia, especially in the NBS. So we give up that people to whom we have granted so many rights and opportunities to decide on our lives have absolutely no responsibility for what their decisions make as effects. I'll remind you of what the key jobs of people in the NBS are, so they determine and implement monetary and foreign policy, manages foreign reserves. So, it's about tens of billions of euros in foreign reserve management, and we have a member who completely releases any responsibility for any decision making by these people who are employed in the NBS. Let me remind you, in 2011, we ended up with 12 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves. It is now around nine billion and 900m euros in foreign exchange reserves in the NBS. There are a lot of arguments about this, but what's also interesting is that the other day we were in the Assembly discussing control, staff at the Supervisory Authority, and we chose the Director of the Supervisory Authority, and that ten days ago we had information that our country was listed as an intergovernmental organisation of FAT against money laundering and terrorist financing. So, with the greater responsibility of the people we have chosen in these places, would you be able to control and pay and pay and cash flows across our country and would these effects and such work, more responsible work, possibly prevent such a shameful finding of Serbia on this list? I think it endangers overall economic development in Serbia and trust in our country. That is why there are many examples, and I invite you to accept this attitude. The people in the NBS will continue their jobs, and I'm sure they're much more responsible on condition that we take down this article 86b.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30549	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic of the National Assembly, which a group of 32 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2016. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 149 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them. 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them. 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad in connection with the privatisation of the ATP "Vojvodina" and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for eight against them, who has not been voted by 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2017. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, has voted for – 10 against – 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda to the point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 July 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30550	Mr. Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have passed a law that I wish to lower my VAT rate to computers. This is the first in a series of laws I work on with the desire to make computers and the Internet more accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I've already submitted this as an amendment when we were talking about raising the VAT rate and now I'm proposing in law form. So, what's this about? In 2012, this government, in a slightly different form, raised the VAT rate from 18% to 20%, raising the VAT rate to computers from 8% to 20% as well. This created quite a clear picture of how this government sees the future in Serbia and this picture has become very clear, crystal clear, later very retrograde laws in the field of work and education. I do not agree to this future in Serbia. Only one new computer in the household, at school, is more important to our country than six or even 66 migs. Our country's defence should be by creating a knowledge society, by accepting and innovating new information technologies, by raising general and technological literacy, not by blinking and tanking. There is no missile shield that can defend our country against illiteracy and ignorance, only a clear strategy towards the state of knowledge, to the knowledge society can do so. In Serbia, statistics on this topic are devastating in fact. We have over 30% of households that don't have any computers. The number of hosts with Internet connection is even smaller. So with such statistics and when you add functional illiteracy or general illiteracy, of course and technological illiteracy, so digitization and digital transformation of our country is not possible, of course, a step with the fourth technological revolution. So we're proposing this law, I think it's essential for our country's development, and so I'm asking you to just put it on the agenda and start talking about it, maybe there are better proposals, maybe there's a suggestion that this law will be even better, and I'll take it from here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30551	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30552	Mr. Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have passed this law because it is not possible to sit peacefully over the systematic discrimination of a number of children. What exactly is this about? The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System makes it very clear that the Expert Interresor Commission, who does it and what it does. The inter-resor commission, consisting of people, representatives of schools, municipalities, health institutions, parents, decides on which children require a particular teaching, educational or social support in the educational process. Where's the problem? The problem arises when the expert interresor commission decides that a certain number of children or a specific child needs pedagogical assistance or support in the form of pedagogical assistants or health care professionals and that this child and those children, the number is not small, such assistance is not obtained. It's a systematic discrimination of a certain number of children. What happens next? Parents are then forced to accept a personal companion for children who have received a decision to get a teaching assistant, which is an absolutely different kind of help. Or even worse, parents are forced to quit their jobs and they are personal escorts of the child, so that the child can simply attend school. Then families who need extra money to stay out of basic income so that the child can go to school at all. I have submitted a bill that annuls this kind of discrimination. This law creates the obligation of the establishment, the municipality, the ministry, therefore, in that relationship, that every child for whom the expert commission confirms that additional teaching or educational or health or social support is needed, in fact, to achieve one of the first principles of education, and that is – equal chances for all, without discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30553	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30554	In its essence, this law abolishes plastic bags, or prohibits traders from placing the same plastic bags on the market. This subject is just being debated and debated. So, we've already discussed this on the informal Green MP's group and we've been talking for a long time. It looks forward to the fact that there is an increasing number of MPs who want to support one of these topics and wants to discuss one of these topics. It looks forward to the fact that an increasing number of NGOs, if not all those dealing with the environment, supports one such proposal or any other proposal, in any case the subject of the elimination of plastic bags. I'm going to start by wanting to show you this terrible factography in the first minute why I submitted this bill. In fact, more than 2.5 billion plastic bags are used annually in Serbia. In 20 minutes, the use of the century is needed to break it down in nature. When you multiply it by the surface of a plastic bag you get in the store, you can cover the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia five times with plastic bags that take centuries to break down in nature. They pollute our drinking water, pollute fertile soil, kill animals, about 100,000 animals die annually because of this. These are the facts why we have to do this job for ourselves, not because it is our obligation to the European path. We have to do this job for ourselves. When you do a parallel analysis of how Europe and the countries in Europe did it, the best effect is given or given by those countries that banned or partially banned plastic bags. In those countries that introduced plastic bags taxes, the result is not so good. In those countries that have introduced such a measure that customers must pay for a plastic bag, the result is also not so good. That's why I decided to take this radical measure, which is to remove plastic bags. I am prepared, together with an informal Green Parliament group, with which we are really talking on this subject, to speak to all MPs, to raise awareness of what it really means to abolish, or adopt such a measure. I have no illusion that this is going to be on the agenda today, but believe me, and you have to understand, this is a job that we have to do for ourselves, sooner or later, and it's very important that we do this job as soon as possible, once again, for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30555	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, v – one, abstention – no one voted 139. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 154. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 155. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing law on property tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 154. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal by MP Natasa Vukkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 152. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Marjanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Vesna Marjanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 154. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 155. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact of the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the winding-up procedure "Such Insurance", which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2017. Does MP Veroljub Stevanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 152. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Goran Chabradi, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 December 2016. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30556	Thank you, Chairman. This Social Protection Act is in fact popular in the jargon called – parent-teacher law and it is a law that was actually initiated by parents of children with special needs, parents having a hard time getting children. In fact, at this point, the state of Serbia does not recognize them as guardians, that is, the foster parents and the state of Serbia are real, I mean, one bad thing, and that's what we thought about in the Green Party, which is to push these parents as a society into a situation to either give up all their life activities in order to devote themselves to the custody and care of these children or to give up children and to leave them to institutions or foster families, and then the state handles these jobs. We felt that the adoption of such a law would be an extremely logical, extremely moral thing for this society, and we would insist that this country accepts the same status of parents of children with special needs as a foster parent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30557	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 144. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Goran Chabradi, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft laws to amend and supplement the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 June 2017. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30558	Thank you, Chairman. This law, which is popular, and we all know it as a law on the legalization of cannabis, we in the Green Party felt that again as a society we are making one illogical thing and discriminating a large number of our citizens. At this point, according to some estimates, 30 to 50,000 people are heavily ill, hiding and supplying drugs in the gray market, i.e. cannabis oil. We wanted this law to do what had already been done in over 20 European laws of the countries, in 38 states of the United States, to decriminalize cannabis for the gravely ill, for those of whom modern medicine has raised its hand. Today as a state, we have a situation where we are the only European country where such people are arrested, where people find the smallest, minimum amount of cannabis oil, the state puts them in jail and condemns them to punishment. We think it's pointless. We think it suits some lobbies, not to say whether they're pharmaceutical companies or someone else, and it absolutely doesn't make sense at this point that we're acting like a state. At this point, we think it is necessary to quickly adopt and decriminalise cannabis as soon as possible, that we will reduce the gray opiate market in Serbia and make a major concession for severely ill citizens. I know most of us aren't doctors, not doctors who deal with this subject. I know that at this point there are great discussions and at the world level from scientists whether cannabis is good or not, but what I do know is that several tens of thousands of our citizens believe it helps them and what I know is that a large number of European, worldly countries have done what Serbia needs to do now. I urge you to put this on the agenda and pass this law to help our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30559	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 10, against – 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who submitted their lives to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30560	Thank you. On March 13, 2015, three years ago and 13 days ago, then Defence Minister Bratislav Gasic ordered a rescue mission, which was supposed to save the five-day baby from the Ademovic family. On 13 March 2015, tragically by hitting that helicopter on the ground at the airport "Nikola Tesla" lost the lives of seven people, Major Omer Melic, Captain Milovan Djukaric, Mechanic and Ensigns Nebojsa Drajić and Ivan Miladinovic, Doctor Dzevad Ljajic and Technician Miroslav Veselinović and the baby that caused the rescue mission to be organized. For three years and 13 days now, I have been looking for a committee of inquiry to determine at least two facts that are missing from all the reports he's done under the orders of the Chief of Staff, which have been done by the prosecution, and these answers are missing so that we can have a full picture of the causes of this tragedy and those responsible for this tragedy. Two questions were left without an answer – from which Minister Bratislav Gasic received information that a rescue mission is needed to save the life of a baby. And the second question, without an answer – who changed the flight plan on returning the helicopter to Nikola Tesla airport? I am not in the context of the establishment of a survey board specifically instructed no conclusions, no abuses of available data and the survey committee should just enable everyone to know the whole truth about the tragedy - a helicopter, to establish responsibility and to once and for all be propaganda, especially the low one that was used by pilot Omer Mehic's slanders and attacks on all who sought responsibility, that no one will ever think of such a way to treat missing lives again. This committee of ours and our joint obligation and the reason why I think that at that time we will have conclusions and the reason behind the responsible conduct of all of us at public office, whatever you are, whenever you are and as much as you think that someone's silence or cover-up protects us from the responsibility of the National Assembly, even if that responsibility is moral. It is your will that you accept this committee of inquiry, and it is my duty never to stop asking one composition to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30561	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – one, abstention – no one voted 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances and to look into the current situation of the Belgrade water project, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 February 2018. Does the MP, Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, v—one, abstention—no one voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gorica Gajic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkić, on 23 February 2018. Does the MP, Gorica Gajic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30562	The DSS MPs are proposing to be a member of 78. Law on public undertakings that otherwise propose and define criminal provisions and fines for persons responsible for public undertakings. We are now proposing two new positions to supplement this Article 78, which would provide for fines for responsible persons in the government, the AP, local self-government and responsible persons in commissions who are competent to carry out the procedures laid down under the law for the selection of directors in public enterprises. Namely, we have practice in our Serbia to maintain V.D. for years. The state of director of public enterprises and we simply violate the legal obligation to discuss the competition in time, conduct competitions, form a ranking list and propose the appointment of directors of public enterprises. Most often, too, the practice to take for V.D. Directors are appointed by incompetent, unprofessional people, so the delay, the call for competitions are very often directly covered by their incompetence and the lack of conditions they would meet if the competition were to be called. So we suggest that once and for all we break these majority V.D.s. the situation, to determine fines from 200 to 500,000 dinars for responsible persons in the government, the AP and units of local self-government and 100 to 300,000 dinars for members of committees who will be responsible for carrying out a competitive procedure, to form a ranking list and to propose it to competent authorities in state institutions, so as not to interrupt this v.d. once and for all. the situation, and the fact is that reforms only rest on professional people and on procedures that we must, above all here, respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30563	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gorica Gajic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma, during the Second World War, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic, on 12 February 2018. Does the MP, Gorica Gajic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30564	It is obvious that in this National Assembly, we need to repeat more times to all fellow Members the need for a resolution on genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma in an independent state of Croatia. In fact, we all see that Serbia and Croatia's interstate relations are burdened with too much burden, which we and the Republic of Croatia will carry for a long time. The fact is that this burden is primarily from open issues that have no answer from the 1990s war, and I would say that we are much more burdened by these relationships regarding all those war events during World War II in the Independent State of Croatia. In fact, it is becoming more and more common today, and we are witnesses, even when it comes to officials of the Republic of Croatia, they hear pro-Statian statements, they are heard and they see pro-Pro-Statian passwords, not to mention now greeting "For Home Ready", not to mention breaking tables with a Cyrillic name, so with the right and the few remaining Serbs left in Croatia are concerned about their future. The Democratic Party of Serbia has therefore twice proposed to place itself on the agenda, and not only to put it on the agenda, but also to vote on a resolution on genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II, because the facts show, and many sources, that more than 500,000 Serbs, more than 30,000 Roma and more than 40,000 Jews were killed. Unfortunately, neither Yugoslavia nor the countries that were later created after Yugoslavia fell apart have ever been determined according to genocide in the independent state of Croatia, it has never been given the right name, even, more recently, to try and relativise crimes and to reduce the number of victims. You don't learn about it in schools. That is why we from the Democratic Party of Serbia believe that we, as Serbia, owe, as a responsible country, to clearly determine ourselves according to this genocide in World War II. It will be not only the debt-demanding of the genocide victims, but the truth will also be the foundation of the new policy that we must declare, so that once and for all we do not resolve the inter-republic relations between Serbia and Croatia. Only the truth is the foundation of future relations between these two states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30565	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 148 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gorica Gajic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkić, on 23 February 2018. Does MP Gorica Gajic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30566	Thank you, Chairman. An important agricultural land law has arranged to redistribute the amount, i.e. the amount of compensation for the re-use of agricultural land, so that 60% of these funds go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and 40% of these funds remain the income of the budget of local self-government. We of the Democratic Party of Serbia believe that the total or total amount of the re-designed agricultural land should remain the income of units of local self-government. In fact, these funds are still being used to implement annual programmes for the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. So we know the purpose of these 40% of the funds, but that's why nowhere has it been defined where and what these 60% of the funds go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia are spent. This agricultural land that belongs to a particular local self-government is normally based on local infrastructure, otherwise it is treated with local plans, spatial and urban land, so we think that all of this should be left as the revenue of the local self-government budget, especially since we here in the Assembly have more and more frequent laws, laws that are being adopted, which are increasingly reducing the revenues of local self-government budgets and are increasingly being transferred to the level of the Republic of Serbia. With these means, I am also bound by the bill that my colleague Lapčević had, where we have an obligation to pay local self-government for transportation and jubilee rewards to the employees of education, so, come on, don't in every way be constantly reducing your income to the budgets of local self-government. That's why we suggest that this entire amount goes as income to the local self-government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30567	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gorica Gajic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic, on 3 March 2017. Does MP Gorica Gajic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30568	Thank you, Chairman. The military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia was declared a resolution by the National Assembly on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia on 26 December 2007, at a time when the government was headed by the Democratic Party of Serbia and then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. Of course now, after almost 10-11 years, when we see what happened on the international and political and military agenda, we see only now the justification for the adoption of this Resolution. The fact is that war conflicts, military conflicts, political conflicts between major forces are growing more and more, and our classification, military classification, according to, in this case, would certainly affect our independence and would reduce our maneuvering space to protect our independence as much as possible, especially that we are surrounded by NATO states, while at the same time trying to preserve good relations with the Russian Federation, because the fact that the most in international relations the Russian Federation is helping us not to preserve the territorial integrity and false state of Kosovo within the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is very important for us, especially now that you and the previous government, which is unconditionally moving towards European integrations which are all conditions, and to this end, Vojislav Kostunica further in 2008 told the international community what the ultimate goal is – to recognise the independent state of Kosovo and to literally give 15% of our territory. That is why it is important, dear fellow Members, to determine ourselves according to military neutrality, that, in addition to our declaration of acceptance, in addition to the fact that this government is also seeking military neutrality, we raise ourselves to a higher normative act and pass a law on military neutrality and that it is clear right now that the greatest pressures on the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that it will not stop, we determine according to military neutrality and not just military. It would be good for this authority to examine the possibility and political neutrality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30569	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 149 MPs for – 6, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration on GMOs and products from GMOs, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Prof. Dr. Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30570	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, for the third time I am calling on you to adopt a roof declaration in GMOs, which was unanimously adopted by committees in 136 cities and municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, which is four-fifths of local self-government. The Deputy Prime Minister and the resolutely in charge of trade have said in more means of informing that anti-GMO hysteria is ruling in Serbia. Please, in Serbia there is a GMO subsistence, not anti-GMO hysteria. The best example is this Easter egg box I bought this morning at a hypermarket near my apartment. So we produce soybeans that aren't genetically modified, corn that isn't genetically modified, we export it to other countries, which then bring it back to us with this brand as a guarantee that it doesn't contain genetically modified organisms. These products are more expensive for 20 dinars, or two dinars per piece, than are products from other our producers that do not have that brand. Multiply 30 million eggs as much as will be sold for Easter alone, calculate the loss we have, and we could employ our livestock production capacities with our raw materials and export eggs with a brand without GMOs to other countries. The second question involved is the claim that we must comply with the World Trade Organisation. Please, the World Trade Organization is practically dead. In addition, it points to the fact of how long the negotiations lasted for the last round and whether they ended, how many years. Furthermore, did the World Trade Organisation react to the trade embargo introduced by the World Trade Organisation of the Russian Federation? It's not. Did the World Trade Organisation react to the embargo that America has now introduced for imports of aluminium and steel? It's not. Then why do we have to react to the views of the World Trade Organisation relating to GMOs? Why do we have a market worth five billion euros to give to foreign companies and introduce unfair competition to our agricultural producers? Why destroy our institutes? Why belittle our minds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30571	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 6 September 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here is my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying that the best tuition is the one paid by someone else's mistakes. If we don't want to worry, we have to plan ahead. I've listened to previous colleagues who have fallen into the fire, so I'm obliged to say on their mistakes how to plan, and how not in the state to rule, the state should not build up and have no plan. There was someone falling into the fire earlier who advocated it, or advocated it against genetically modified food, but only from a year or two ago. In 2011, he did not mind that, in his strategy on agricultural cooperatives, it was not as a condition. He didn't mind because he got 57,351 euros for a strategy he didn't have anywhere. So, one strategy that someone would now pay him 60,000, yes. Then he asked for the rest of the two thousand and something to bring Káveki from Iran, some consultant, he's probably a good acquaintance of genetically unmodified food. So much for planning, not planning and hypocrisis. Let's move on. A colleague before him talked very vividly about planning. She was talking about genocide in Croatia. I don't know if Kostunica was underage until 2008. Is that the same party they joined the parliament with? Is that the same party that forgot it was genocide by 2008? It looks like genocide just now. I ask them, since I often vote for it, why didn't they put Storm on it? Because the next president, Sanda Raskovic, said the Storm was merciful, as she said, some humanitarian action, some legitimate humanitarian action, and that Srebrenica is genocide. They kind of messed it up, mixed it up. Did they forget how they planned the Martian pogrom? Here, I'll say that they planned it by releasing 2,108 Albanian terrorists, among them mostly convicted, who executed the March Pogrom in 2004, so I ask them if it was genocide? Did they think these Albanian terrorists should let them plan the Martian Pogrom? I ask finally, was Kostunica a minor in 2008 and did not even frown on the declaration of Kosovo independence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30573	I'm putting this motion to a vote. Here you go. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2017. Does MP Aleksandar Stevanovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30574	Ladies and gentlemen, we'll probably all agree on one thing, and the thing is that the house is sacred and that the house of each of us is a castle that no one can enter without a host's call and that probably the most terrible thing you can imagine is to find a robber in your house. There's hardly anything that's more disgusting and that can happen uglier to a person. The people who have experienced this in their lives and who are truly heroes of this society, and the hero is the one who defends his family from the bandits, on average experience that they have been dragged through the courts for three years and that their life becomes hell. If he were to seek an archetype of hero in Serbia, it would be one person named Sasko Bodevski, who was only released three years later, with the possibility of going through another cycle of torment, if the prosecutor decides. Sasko Godevski, and everyone who defended himself against the robbers, regardless of what injury he had done to him, because the robber wanted to do evil to him, to his property, he defended every one of you in his family, that it might not happen to you. Serbia, which does not recognise the Institute of "necessarily self-defense" in a way that when you find someone who is armed in your own home, and did not come with your call, which does not recognise that every self-defense in that case is necessary, gives a completely wrong message and that is something that should be corrected, because it is deeply amoral and profoundly contrary to tradition and the best that this country has. I think that's something we should imagine ourselves about. I know the causes of a limited right to self-defense. They lie in some years when we have replaced a decent country in 1945 for democracy and when it was nearly desirable for anyone to enter a house, today when these traditions are gone, when we say that private property is sacred, the right of a man to life is sacred, I think it is necessary to make such a change and enable only one thing, and that is every self-defense from the robbers in your own house is necessary to self-defense and there is no need for the court to infinitely determine whether anyone was defending themselves within the limits of the necessary self-defense, or first warned someone who came with a knife, a gun or anything in his own home and said – Mr. Thieveler, it is not necessary to do so, I will wait for you to fire the first shot, and then I will defend myself as God commands the same intensity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30575	I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2017. Does MP Aleksandar Stevanovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30576	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most beautiful things that has happened in Serbia in the last three years, since this majority is conducting reforms in the way it imagines it should be done, is that the public debt has been reduced significantly, downgraded as part of GDP, which is a burden of public debt repayment compared to GDP, and which doesn't hang a bankruptcy over our heads at this point. It's something that everyone in their right mind needs to say hello, and that's what everyone's normal and they've done, and international institutions and everyone who understands something in the economy. That's a fact. What remains unclear to me is that this Budgetary System Act stands at what is the maximum limit of debt, the consolidated debt of the Republic of Serbia, and it says – that is 45%. Our debt is falling, that's a fact, but it'll be another year as it drops to 45%, with a question of whether it's necessary. Mastricht, who prescribes convergence criteria for one day the euro to be a Serbian currency, says – 60% is fine. Maybe there's no need to go so low. Also, if you ever look at what serious states look like, I think the United States is an extremely serious country. Every year there are big debates about how to amend laws that define the maximum level of US debt and every year they have discussions about whether or not to raise the border, but no one thinks they should be further in charge just because they think it's okay. No, the law changes first. One old majority stopped paying attention to the law and owed much more than 45%. What I'm putting as an objection is why now that we've had amendments to the Budgetary System Act, we simply haven't written that the debt ceiling of the Republic of Serbia is 60% and that this will be achieved in the next two years? This would show, in addition to what we have done seriously in this country, that the country's debt is reduced, that we have seriously laid down laws, that with serious laws we are going on a European path and that we are sending a very serious message, which is that what is in the Law on the Budgetary System, as a key system law, is a sacred letter for us and it is not an effort, and it is not really an attack on anyone, but a recognition of what happened and a great recognition that we have decided today, for example. If you decided to accept this proposal, to comply with Mastricht standards, at least about ten years earlier and to show that we are a country that is much better at convergence criteria than many countries that today have the euro as their own money. So the correction is of a technical nature, but essentially, when you look at it a little bit, the correction is one big message of seriousness, if it were to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30577	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Dual Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30578	Thank you. This National Assembly in this assembly adopted the Law on Dual Education in the autumn, which we have great objections as a parliamentary group and against whose adoption we fought with arguments during the debate in October of the month. We couldn't convince you. The law has been passed. What remains as a way to fight this harmful law is to try to correct the mistake that has been made, and a great mistake and a great injustice has been made to our education system, because the Duo Education Act, like another patch, has only been put on our outdated education system in the Republic of Serbia which has long been crying for reform. Instead of moving forward and reforming and modernising our, above all, basic education, so that children at the end of basic education have a good enough knowledge to study high school and continue their colleges, we say practically by adopting this Duo Education Act – it is okay that children at the end of basic education have very little knowledge and it is okay to direct them to be a cheap workforce in life, not entrepreneurs who are supposed to start a non-existent industry in the Republic of Serbia. Dual education has its purpose and has its own meaning in a state that has a strong local economy and industry, such as Austria and Germany, from which we have copied this model of law. In the Republic of Serbia, we still don't have a strong economy. We need first entrepreneurs to emerge from our education system, which will trigger and build this strong economy, in order to then have a purpose and purpose of the Dual Education Act. Therefore, we propose that this law be withdrawn, that it ceases to apply and that all the resources that are now identified for its introduction be shifted towards reforming the primary and preschool system, in order to produce entrepreneurs rather than cheap labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30579	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Ana Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion in motion for a vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal on the education of the polling committee to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2017. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30580	Thank you. I was practically forced to propose to the National Assembly that the polling committee be educated for the simple reason that the Anti-Corruption Agency is simply not doing its job. This does not surprise me, given that recently the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency was appointed as a person who had just been a donor in the presidential campaign of Aleksandar Vukic during the 2017 presidential elections. I'll remind you that the DJB and I, last June, carried out one, how can I say, insight into who the president's campaign donors were, and among the donors, different officials appeared. I already mentioned the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Then, we also have individual MPs sitting here with us today in the O.R., members of their families. What's unusual is we also have social assistance users. It is unusual that they receive about 8,000 dinars a month, and were able to support the presidential campaign with an entire 40,000 dinars. It's unusual, because we're wondering what they practically lived on for those five months, how much did they have to separate on behalf of the president of the state's campaign? I remind you, too, that an unknown stream has been introduced somewhere between 2.2m euros in the campaign. Some 7,000 campaign donors have paid equivalent amounts of 40,000 dinars. On one show, the President of the Republic, visiting, tried to explain this by practically trying to explain in a plastic way the situation in which two people are sitting in a pub, the third one comes and offers them a certain amount of money to pay together at the expense of his campaign. So, apart from this being contrary to the law, I'm also interested in the origin of the money, that 2.2 million, how much it's paid for the presidential campaign. Given that the Anti-Corruption Agency, as I explained earlier, is not strong enough, or is not an independent institution at the moment, I believe that the National Assembly has a duty to organise an investigative committee that will deal with this issue more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30581	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MPs Tatjana Macura and Branko Stamenkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, submitted to the National Assembly by the National MPs Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska, Branka Stamenković on 8 November 2017. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30582	Thank you, Chairman. One of the biggest shortcomings, one of the biggest tragedies in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is that certain laws, such as the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, are adopted in a united debate, with completely illogical points on the agenda. As a result, this law has come into force, now for almost a year, we have one, let me say, very poor application of the same law. When I wrote a proposal to amend this law, then I was just what I first thought of trying to change, but that's where there's a lot of things changing today. One of the things I'd like the Assembly to consider is to create one obligation for every district police department to have an obligation to have at least one trained police officer for cases of domestic violence. It is known that, unfortunately, in some areas police officers are quite tolerated in cases of domestic violence and very often respond to the victim to apply some of the next steps. Also, one of the things that we were able to spot immediately, when the debate took place in November 2016, is that the detention measure is not limited, or it is not delayed if the perpetrator of violence under the fact of alcohol and/or psychoactive substances. So, I would ask that the National Assembly simply consider one more time so that it would be desirable for the perpetrators of violence to be sobered first or brought into some state of detention in which they can understand what measures they have, the urgent measures spoken. The third thing I suggest is that the victim be informed of what emergency measures have been imposed on the perpetrator of violence. We had a recent situation in Zemun, so not far from here, just hours after she reported the victim, after the emergency measures were made, the perpetrator of the violence came and attacked the victim with firearms. Also, I suggest that the coordination group be joined by a person who could help in an adequate way the victim of domestic violence, not to force the victim of violence to go through some processes that he probably wants to forget or want to exclude from the same. Therefore, the greatest burden of united debates is precisely such laws that should not at any cost enter into some political frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30583	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojčić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does the MP Radoslav Milojcic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law ahead of us. This is an extremely important law, as is the defence system of an extremely important system for the functioning of the entire state. I must say immediately that I do not expect the ruling majority of SNS to support these amendments and amendments to the law, although they have been worked by serious and responsible people who have been dealing with the defence system and the Army of the Republic of Serbia for their entire lives. I don't expect for the reason that the ruling majority of the defence minister has proposed and appointed Alexander Vulin and we know your plan for this system. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 97(1) in points 4), 6) and 9) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which are provided that the Republic of Serbia is precisely providing and regulating the defence and security of all its citizens. The Defence Act is insufficient and does not provide answers to essential questions. One of the main reasons is the obsolescence of basic strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security assessments, both in the Republic of Serbia and globally and in the region and the environment. It is necessary to establish a fund of the Defence Act, first of all, with the Emergency Act. It's not good for the security of the state, for the safety of its citizens, and for the entire defense system that we don't have a compatible defense law with the Emergency Law. We have proposed serious proposals in amendments to the Defence Act. I also thank General Sreti Malinović and Peter Dojcic who worked on these changes and supplements and I see nothing controversial about these changes and additions. If what we are proposing is controversial, we have no problem withdrawing this law and proposing it, because I do not know what is controversial in Article 1 which says basic strategic documents: the National Defence and Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Army doctrine and documents in the field of non-military exports, risks and threats. That's what it takes at this point and I don't know why you don't put these amendments and additions to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30585	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30586	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the DS is proposing amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government because citizens are equally important to us regardless of whether they live in Surdulica or Subotica or Belgrade. The Democratic Party is proposing these amendments and amendments to the law because local self-government is in an extremely difficult situation. Local self-government mentions the opening of a traffic light in the Kingdom or bicycle parking lot in Novi Sad or a tap in Leskovac. It is not good for citizens living in these local self-governments, it is not good for all of Serbia either. I don't blame those mayors who have money to open only these miserable investments, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken away 50 billion dinars over the past four years. By law of the previous year, Minister Brnabic, who is now prime minister, stole five billion dinars by local self-government. How do you think the presidents of the municipality work with these funds? The European Charter that Serbia ratified in 2007 guarantees all local self-government administrative, political and financial independence. No local self-government in Serbia has political or financial independence. That's what the SNS is about. The situation in the EU is slightly different. Half of the budgets belong to the republic, while half of the budget funds belong to municipalities and cities in the EU. In Serbia, only 10.2% of total budget revenues belong to local self-government and AP Vojvodina, which is extremely bad. Since 2012, I repeat once again, you have taken away 50 billion dinars by local self-government, and if elections for mayors and MPs were direct, not to vote for the Belgrade leader's name, it would not be so, because we MPs would have to explain to our citizens. Congratulations, since the Law on Local Self-Government is a great result for all citizens and I thank those who cast the vote yesterday DS, 10.20% is not a great result, in these conditions, in which the SNS is harassing all citizens, it obviously was better to congratulate all participants no matter what result they won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30587	I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30588	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the ruling majority is responsible for the misrepresentation of media laws, but we are making a constructive proposal that each parliamentary group should give one member who deals with the area and co-organise the media space together. That was the case for many who were in power, and when it came to the opposition, that was not the case. You've been in opposition for a long time, of course, you'll be in opposition again, God of health, and surely your laws won't suit you, except no one will force those laws, just like you force them to. I don't know why you don't pass this law unless you're afraid to hear a different opinion, if you're afraid to hear a different voice. What does this look like on a specific case? This seems to come from the owner of Jasenica TV in Smederjevska Palanca and tells him simply and specifically - either TV will be shut down or you have to let out the lies about who their opponent is. There's no opposition opinion, there's no other word. Only praises about the ruling majority can be heard there, which is, of course, bad for democracy, bad for the whole of Serbia. During 2013, 23 attacks on journalists were recorded. No attack on the press has been given to a court epilogue. During 2017, this increased because no one responded in 2013, because no attack of 23 attacks was received by a court epilogue. During 2017, 54 attacks were recorded on journalists throughout Serbia. I think this situation is worrying, whether you're the government or you're the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30589	I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30590	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is an extremely important topic and these are extremely important amendments to the Social Protection Act. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(8). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party proposes three concrete solutions, which are to provide all students whose parents do not work with free transportation from home to school, to provide them with free snack and to provide them with free textbooks. Of course, we literally got out of the campaign this morning. I found myself in a beautiful village, Ratara village, a lady living alone with her daughter, and she has a granddaughter. They don't have the money to pay grandkids a ride from home to school. It's a reality in Serbia. That's the facts. This situation is completely different. You can't see that sadness from these benches. It's life. It's poverty in Serbia right now. I can give you the name and last name of the person. We can't stay silent on that. About 50,000 children covered by primary and secondary education are hungry every day. How does a fifth grade kid feel if a friend has lunch next to him and his father and mother don't have to give him lunch money? So I ask you to accept these amendments to the Social Protection Act because it is not Serbia as it wants DS and we have some things to change. Unfortunately, we have an example of a Moll boy who took his own life. First of all, he left the third grade of high school in Vienna because he had no money for a ticket. After that, something terrible happened. The boy took his own life for lack of it. Please don't let us remain silent on this regardless of all our political differences. In 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population is only 17.3% and therefore I propose a concrete solution, which is that the state finance free out-of-body fertilisation. Please accept the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Serbia is a leader in the region, but Serbia is unfortunately only a leader in the region at risk of poverty. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we can't let our children be hungry. Somebody can if his trip from home to school is worse to go that way, but if he doesn't have three meals a day, he can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30591	I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace settlement of Work Disputes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 December 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just before the speaker made me sort of explain this, given the dispute with the prosecution. These are criminal charges in Smederev that have not been prosecuted against Mr. Hyneken, a speaker who just spoke so touchingly about social needs. He's being charged by the prosecution for 485,110,855 dinars. That's how damaged the Smederjev Palanca budget is. As far as the results are concerned, he said another lie. The result is 9.4 along with six other parties. When you divide, it's 1.5. I think without Zoran Zivkovic's party, without Cedomir Jovanovic's party, without the Social Democratic Party, that percentage would be far lower. I think there was a Veselinovic party, and a congested prange, but all in all, I think that the citizens of that 9.4% have subscribed. I think that's where some of the people who took part in the 470s and some of the thousands for the night of spent beer, so it's funny when someone drinks 343 beers, it's not funny, but when someone announces it, then it's the reason for the sneer of this political party's disappearance. They forgot to say they fell to five from 16 councilmen. They forgot to say they won those 16. There are shoes called "sci", if I remember correctly, which the Palanca municipality when it was the government bought for 23 million, 5,000 pieces. That's exactly how much he won votes and 16 seats in the 2016 elections. Apparently, the shoe's gone, so he can't share his left before the election, and his right hand after the election, and that's why his rating went down. It seems that only those who well wet their throats on the cost of the Palank municipality voted. So there's a certain Cat from the Vodice Football Club, who was known for his violence against SNS activists, who got 21 million dinars. He didn't even explain how he issued the pool for 50 years for 2,000 euros, when we in India only charge 5,000 euros per year for an ice cream machine. I'm done. In terms of peaceful disputes, I would recommend that the D.A. consider these criminal charges in peace and process the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30593	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. Now I'm setting a five-minute break because of the problem with the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30594	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30595	Of course, Mr. Arsic, I'd like to know how you gave your previous speaker your word, but well, it's not your right, but it doesn't matter. Just for the sake of the public, not the LDP, not the SDS were with us in the coalition, and there is Mr Djurisic LDP, so they can confirm, so it is not true, as nothing is what the previous speaker said correctly. But I am well proud of 10.2% of Smederevska Palanka citizens, who have not succumbed to buying, blackmailing, harassing and threatening SNS, that they will lose their jobs if they vote for us, so that when you organise fair democratic elections without buying, stealing, harassing, quitting, then we can talk. Since the CEO of Laste called his driver who works at Smederjevska Palanca at half past nine in the evening, because he was campaigning with me, outside of his work hours and threatened to get fired and moved to another post. But, well, that's unfortunately the situation where elections are being held today, and I'm proud of my citizens, and that result that DS got, I'm the bearer of the list. As far as this serious law on amendments and additions to the Army Act, people, you've managed to destroy the army. That's a fact. We propose amendments and additions to the 18 members of the Army Act. First of all, it is necessary to comply with military and defence laws. It is not normal for us in 2018 not to be compatible with military and defence laws in areas that are almost identical. What's so controversial about these changes that we're proposing? The army was an institution with the highest confidence of citizens in it. Today, the army is no longer. The military is today an institution to escape from, and I'm not saying it, that's not what the DS is saying, that's what the data and the facts are saying. Five defence ministers have changed the SNS in the last six years. Every minister is worse than his predecessor. That's what I said to Mr. Djordjevic. Everyone laughed. Now I feel bad for attacking him, because after Djordjevic, it must be worse for Minister Vulin to be here, who deserted from the army. If you think you'll silence us with lies and deception, you won't, the DS isn't fighting for itself, but because of every citizen he's committed to protecting against manipulation, lies, untrueness and blackmail of SNS, whether we have two, five, eight, 10 or 15%, we're fighting for citizens here, not for our chairs, like you in SNS. As you fight, it says that up to 80% of Serbian Army members earn less than the average earning in the republic. About 70% of military civilians earn 22,000 dinars, how do these people make ends meet and how do they survive? About 72% of the people who leave the army do so on their own request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30596	I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. Less votes than a percentage in the Palanca. We're moving on with our work. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel, concerning military and defence industrial co-operation, which the Government submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30597	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, clean viewers, on 25 March 2018, political parties etc. on 31.1.2018, they concluded an agreement on joint participation in the elections, DS, NS, SDS, represented by Zoran Dacic, DSS, represented by Spasojevic, LDP, represented by Goran Dugic, the Democratic Union of Roma, etc. What was not true, let the viewers now see for themselves. So there were six parties, as I said, and these movements are different that are not registered, Janko Veselinović etc. Without it, it certainly wouldn't be, a turn-off association or a craftsman's association, this congested one from Vienna, which is where he was convulsed, it's obviously Jesic's fault that he didn't give up his apartment in Vienna, so the man there choked and he hasn't been doing it since, but let's go about military co-operation. So the Serbia we found was not only military neutral, it was also militaryly neutral. Serbia, in which someone buys the House of the Army in Smederjevska Palanca and drinks 300 and some beers, so Serbia, where it can happen, is bought from the JNA's army in favour of the municipality, for 350,000 euros, along with destruction, so that's about 42 million. Then it sells to Miskovic for 26 and the municipality goes down to minus 16 million. So that's how security checks are done in their time and security assessments. We have to have co-operation with Israel so this doesn't happen to us, that the former Defence Minister Sutanovac is selling us tanks for $5,000. So instead of 1,000 armored things found, we found 250 pieces after them. Over 750 pieces were estranged, and tanks were sold to Iraq for the entire $5,000. I believe you can buy one half-steal for that money. It also takes care of security as in Israel, so that someone can't happen to issue a pool in a municipality for 50 years without being arrested. To issue a pool for 2,000 euros, and we in Indjia, I lay down, for an ice cream machine next to the pool, are capable of 5,000 euros. Here's Mr. Veroljub laughing at this. So, no one at age 25 can give cleaning jobs to a low - construction friend and shut down his public company. That's the kind of person you'd be arrested in Israel right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30598	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. Dear fellow Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30599	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of citizens, are not certainly working for the previous speaker, and that is proof that none of what he said is true, never in life, nor in any of the Serbian Progressive Party, here is a coalition agreement certified by notaries. There should be some order in this country, so reading from the phone, ordered, and lying, is not polite in this assembly. This is a coalition agreement by a public notary, public notary intern Milena Djurdjevic and a coalition agreement between the Democratic Party, represented by me, the New Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia. Dot. So everything the previous speaker said wasn't true. But, no matter what, let's go back to the amendments and the additions to the police law, to the police that they've just demeaned, belittled. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We propose the proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act because the lives of all citizens, regardless of their activity, are equally important to us. The state of police is extremely difficult, extremely difficult for members of the interior ministry. The state of police is difficult because the Serbian Progressive Party, above all, has reduced their income twice. For the first time, their salaries have been reduced, for the second time the members of the interior ministry have been reduced. Today, a man who risks his life provides us, our children, our border and our country, has a 150 dinar daily. What can a member of the Home Office do with 150 dinars all day? Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first is that the interior ministry must determine the needs of the police system and, in line with that, personnel schools at the Police Academy. It is not normal for educated, educated, serious staff who finish the Police Academy not to be admitted to work and permanent employment at the Ministry of the Interior. We need to know how compatible we are, how many people are missing from the Ministry of the Interior, how many will be missing in four years, and to receive a certain number of students accordingly. The state can't educate students without then providing them with a job at the Home Office of the Police Academy. The second provision is Article 172(2) – we propose to delete its member because the presumption of innocence is being destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30600	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the Military Security Agency, which, without a court decision, had been spying on political parties, union leaders and individual judges, who submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcys to the Shining Vehicles “Gosa” from Smederjevska Palanka, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My fellow Milojitsu, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Gosa factory was a giant in the old Yugoslavia. The Gosa factory was shut down after 75 years of existence. I'm talking about rail vehicles. She did so and in bankruptcy drove the company "Capitol Consuling". I asked here several times, not for myself, not for the Democratic Party, but for 350 employees in Gosa, but for 350 families who lived from that job – what happens to "Gosa" rail vehicles, what happens to the company "Capitol Consalting"? Is it possible that the state does not have a control mechanism, that the state cannot examine it or behind it is Prime Minister Brnabic's brother and it will not be made clear? The prime minister was in Smederjevska Palanca, of course, three days before the elections, promised everything she had promised before the previous 2016 elections and I ask her, as a citizen of the municipality, to fulfill only part of what she had deceived the public both in 2016 and 2018. Why didn't the Prime Minister talk about "Gossa"? There are 350 families left without receiving, 350 employees no longer have anywhere to work. The company's out of business. We know that our courts are slow, we know how long it takes them to pass the verdict, expressly, from filing requests to introducing bankruptcy, it hasn't been a month. How did the courts suddenly become so expedient, if no one ured from the top of the government? And we have evidence and we talk about how many times, that behind it is Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's brother. Indeed, we ask you, because of those workers who have lost their income, who have lost their job at Gosa, to put these changes and additions on the agenda. You can't do that. You can, but someone will answer for it. Not because of us, but because of workers who have lost their jobs with pride and ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30602	I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-sufficient, will ever be able to do so. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? He's not here. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that took place before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? He's not here. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Arrangement of Pension Payments, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlić, Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? He's not here. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlić, Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? He's not in yet. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesović on 13 October 2017. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesović on 13 October 2017. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? He's not in the O.R. yet. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, submitted to the National Assembly by the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Slavisa Ristić, 15 September 2017. Does MP Zoran Radojićic want a word? A colleague of Radojić's is not present either. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – the proposal for a declaration of honour for Serbian citizens of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesovic on 16 October 2017. Does MP Zoran Radojcic want a word? No, he's not there yet. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the call of presidential elections until the day of publication of the provisional results of the elections processed to 99.9% of the polling stations, which were submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesovic on 20 April 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30603	I thank the chairman. So, the polling committee that we have proposed to form still refers to the presidential elections. Serbia has won the president, he has kept all its functions until then, including that information minister, and further processes continue. I have no dilemma that we can now change something about the presidential election itself, but I do believe and believe that we can change the future election processes in Serbia. The poll committee, which would have been educated by all MPs from all parliamentary groups, could have seen what the election process was, what were the problems, and just to raise the final question of the electoral list, freedom of the media and everything that in Serbia rose a picture of us in the world, and roses and your election result, I must tell you. You have an undeniable majority, but let's do something about it. You gave citizens hope and it's okay, they decided, but let's finally feel something in everyday life as an improvement. We had an example that REM is not doing its job, that even a member of the REM Council, Olivera Zekic, publicly announces that the only ban he will advocate, a ban on President of the Serbian Movement Dvera, Bosko Obradovic, to address himself publicly. No one has responded to such scandalous behavior, as no one reacts to REM as if it does not exist, in fact what it does is to protect the interests of TV Bastille, or TV PINK. I didn't get an answer on how much this TV's obligation to REM is monthly and whether it's being reconciled. Simply, everything that does not correspond to the ruling party is ignored, so our request for education of this committee is ignored. So let Serbian citizens simply see if you want a real electoral list and freedom of the media and a confirmation of their votes that they have been won in a fair way or whether you will continue with your force now in the last elections to demonstrate even how much I have heard with firearms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30604	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the republics' elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesovic, 20 April 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30605	I thank the chairman. The polling committee is also extremely important because it concerns the composition of this parliament. Whenever the Serbian Movement of Dveri, any MP from our parliamentary group, has reasonedly criticised certain conditions in society for which the ruling majority is directly responsible, we do not get a counter argument but simply an accusation that we have been pushed into this parliament in some way. Of course, we have, therefore, requested that the formation of a survey committee determine all the facts since then, and this was requested by the SNS at that time, however, what happened. We supported both the request for the establishment of a survey board, while the SNS gave up its proposal, did not vote for it, and, of course, here for almost two years does not support our request to simply find out the truth. Although I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia and how they see what this is about, because this collection of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia differs by a lot from the previous one, and above all, it is different that there could be many quality constructive criticisms and quality proposals among them today, but unfortunately, the ruling majority of them have no hearing about it. For me as a woman, it is particularly important to form this polling committee, because something very unusual happened on that election night, that a member of RIK attacked MP Dvera, and that later it appeared in the media as an attempt to violence Bosko Obradovic over a woman he did not approach within two metres. As a woman, I would never stand by someone who was violent towards anyone, and especially not a woman. That is why I believe that fellow MPs are obliged to allow me to know the truth and that I get a satisfaction, to confirm that I am not a masochist and that I am not in a party that promotes violence, but rather promotes family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30606	I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. Now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the points of the draft Law amending the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? He's not in yet. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? He's not in the O.R. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending the Law on Special Measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not there either. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not in yet. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 6 October 2017. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 29 September 2017. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not in the O.R. yet. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 17 May 2017. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai want a word? She's not present. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly on Protection against Serbs in Dispersion and the region, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlić, Dragan Vesović, 14 September 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30608	National MP Marija Janjusevic always wants a word when it comes to Serbian and Serbian citizens. This is about a proposal to adopt a declaration on the protection of Serbs in the dispersion and region. So, considering that the issue of protection of rights to language, letter, the cultural identity of Serbs should not only be brought down to this by the silent right of the Serbian people to statehood, i.e. constitutionality and political and territorial self-organisation, in those countries where Serbs are indigenous and state-of-the-art people, and I mean Montenegro, BiH, Croatia and part of Macedonia, more precisely old Serbia. So the Serbian national issue must not be deprived of this element of statehood, as the issue of Serbs outside the borders of today's Serbia is being demoted into a minority issue. Of the 12 million Serbs over five million live outside Serbia's territory. Since a large number of our countrymen, after the break-up of the SFRY against their will remained outside Serbia, emigrated and temporarily left their country of origin, and thus the Republic of Serbia was weakened by demographic, economic and in every other sense, recognising that Serbs in the division and the region are providing enormous intellectual, financial and moral assistance to Serbia's state institutions and its compatriots in Serbia, we have proposed the adoption of this declaration, while noting that in the countries of the region the emergence of neo-nasism, fascism, xenophobia and racial intolerance, especially to the members of the Serb people, and that all these phenomena are being stopped by representatives of the EU and the state bodies of our neighbouring countries, so that we must make sure that we do not become so ourselves and that our voice is heard. The state of Serbia and its institutions are obliged to insist, in accordance with the obligations arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by concluding bilateral agreements with all countries in which Serbs live, on the protection of the personal and collective rights of our countrymen, in accordance with international legal acts. I'd like to deal with the issue of the basic institution. So, the institution of the Diaspora and Serbs Assembly in the region, which has been defined by law as the most important organisation and executive body of Serbs outside Serbia, and which is in the power of the Serbian government, has not met in the past three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30609	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on international road transport of passengers and cargo, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30610	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm almost touched by the previous discussion. On the subject of BiH, we can also talk about Serbs in the region. It's precious to bring together peoples and peoples. You shouldn't argue with them. If we can't reconcile dead ancestors, then we won't argue with living descendants, but there's hypocrisy. The previous speaker comes from a political organisation, which concluded an agreement with the Bulgarian extreme party, called ATAKA. So ATAKA asks Serbia for Bosilegrad and Dimitrovgrad. So, a family, Orthodox organisation, whose leader successfully destroyed Hilandar, so they co-operate with the Bulgarian right-wing party, which requires that the Najski Agreement be put out of force, i.e. the territory of the municipality of Dimitrovgrad and Bosilegrad join Bulgaria. Today they're talking about Serbs in the region. Also, they co-operate with Ivan Pernar, who in the Belgrade Assembly, not just this one, asked, received him warmly here, how much does this Serbian blood cost? The Serbian blood has created a state that considers the Serbian people's monumental skeleton, which ultimately left this small Serbia. While all of them were making their own countries, detached from Serbia, they want Serbia to continue to be a common state, namely to federalize it from the inside. The previous speaker goes that way. In 2006, their leader fled to the Chacan library. In 2006, Montenegro seceded, and this country was ruled by a party that gave them 50,000 euros from Kolubara. In 2008, their leader has not yet left the Chacan library as a bookworm, at the time our AP KiM was separated from Serbia, or when the NATO state was declared a self-proclaimed state in Pristina. So such an organisation that is working with organisations that have expelled Serbs asked how much Serbian blood, which is working with Bulgarian organisations, who want to take our territory, is very hypocritical when we listen to them here talk about Serbs in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30611	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-sufficient, will ever be able to do so. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of the building in Belgrade in the part of the city known as Savamal on 25 April 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 6 June 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30612	Thank you, Chairman. In less than a month, it will be two years from the night between April 24th and 25th, while the eyes of all Serbian citizens, while Serbian citizens followed what was happening in the parliamentary elections that day ended, an unknown group of people under phantoms, during the night brought down several private facilities in the Savamal settlement. At this time, the citizens who found themselves on the scene were deprived of their freedom, their cell phones were taken away, and several of them who managed to escape from there and call for help from the police, so that this should happen in every normal and legal state, on the other hand, by a police officer, came in response that they were not in charge, to address the municipal police. For the past two years, the state of Serbia with all its institutions has been unable to respond to who the Phantoms are from Savala. The closest one to finding out the full truth was then the Prime Minister, the current President of the Republic, who said it was done by complete idiots from the top of the city government. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to find out for these two years who these complete idiots from the top of the city government, their names and last names, and we haven't been able to wait for the court to initiate a procedure that would lead to the condemning verdicts responsible for everything that happened that night in Belgrade. Why is it important for citizens to get that answer? It is important to see whether we live in a legal state, in a country where the law applies to everything and is applied in the same way to all, or whether we live in a country where laws apply to citizens in relation to whether they are members or not of any of the ruling parties. Unfortunately, on this case and on many other examples in the last few years, we can see that Serbia is not a legal state, that the laws in Serbia do not apply to everyone, that it is possible, as in this case, to destroy someone's private property at night, to deprive people of freedom without being responsible. Whether it's a legal state or some other form of state, it's up to the citizens to judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30613	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 24 October 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30614	Thank you, Chairman. We passed this law more than two years ago, right after the government, or the ruling majority here, adopted amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which part of the profit tax revenue, which amounted to 80% for municipalities, or 70% for the city of Belgrade, has been reduced so that it remains 74% for municipalities, 77% for cities, and 66% for the city of Belgrade. At that time, the government said that the deficit of some five billion dinars per year, the less the budgets of local self-government will remain, is not a problem and that municipalities and cities will function successfully without that money. And as those municipalities and cities function, we can see almost every week, when the government decides to pay out hundreds of millions of dinars from budget reserves to certain cities and municipalities, up to a few million dinars, without any criteria, for no reason or explanation why these funds are allocated to cities and municipalities. Here, just before the elections in Belgrade, we heard stories about the perfect state in the Belgrade budget, how the money has more, as is the surplus, and then last week, only two weeks after the elections, news is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated 90 million dinars due to reduced revenues in the city's cash register from the current budget reserve to Belgrade. At the same session, the government allocated 50 million dinars to the Arangelovac, 40 Apatina, 34 Bachu, 21 to the municipalities of the White Church, 20 Opovo and five Temerin. It's only one last time, of course. The biggest payment was at the end of last year – December 29th, when 76 local self-government in Serbia received over 40m euros, without an explanation why, and for what purposes, that money would be used. The government made local self-government servants. It takes money that they themselves need to make sure that they are created and filled with municipal or city registers, and it assigns them to a tray and how much she thinks it is necessary. This is bad, and that is why we believe that the amounts that existed two years ago when they were changed, means that they increase to 80% for cities and municipalities and 70% for the city of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30615	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? She's not present. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of a Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin to Turkey, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the competent authorities in this case, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? She's not present. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 13 October 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30616	Thank you, Chairman. The rate of tax on income income of citizens has not been changed years ago, although we have listened to almost every year announcements that next year there will finally be redundancies that the economy and all those who pay earnings to their employees have on gross earnings. The amount is one of the largest in the region in Serbia and is often highlighted as one of the obstacles to the accelerated and faster development of the Republic of Serbia. Our proposal is to start with a symbolic reduction, to reduce the rate of income tax for citizens from 10 to nine. That is exactly how much revenue would be reduced in the Republic of Serbia's budget compared to what was achieved by reducing the rate left by local self-government, which I was talking about in the previous law. I believe this measure would improve Serbia's picture of profits in the Republic of Serbia. That picture is, let's not characterize it, let me just say something in numbers. We often hear about Serbia's average earnings and how it will at some point be 400, 430, 480 or 500 euros. Of course, she's still far from it. But much more tragic is the structure of paid salaries in Serbia. In fact, 350,000 employees in Serbia receive a monthly minimum profit of 25,000 dinars. Median earnings, the number that is about half paid by head, means that half of the population in Serbia receives less earnings in 2017 than 36,000 dinars of 788 dinars, and two-thirds receives less than that famous average profit. Unfortunately, stories about increasing Serbia's average earnings do not show the right picture of paid salaries in Serbia. Because of the government's policy, unfortunately, Serbia is today on one of the top priority lists in Europe, and this list is the difference between the richest and poorest, biggest and smallest earnings. In Serbia, the relationship is nine to one and is the largest in Europe. The next is Turkey, I think, with 8.1, and some other countries are coming, while the average in Europe is about four times, the relationship between minimum and highest earnings. As a result, a growing number of Serbia are at risk and the government has to take some measures. We're proposing this one for starters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30617	I thank my colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for five peoples, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stanković, 7 October 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30618	Thank you, Chairman. This law, when it was passed and its amendments proposed by the Government, and the ruling majority, of course, adopted this here more than two years ago, warned of the consequences it would have, and above all, that it would strengthen party employment, that it would endanger the economic position of public sector employees and lead to the departure of professional staff. Today, two years after applying this law, unfortunately, we can realize that everything we talked about and happened. It is therefore important to amend the law again, so that the public sector is firstly cleared of party non-productive personnel, in order to contribute to the future development of Serbia, to include what was our main concern of the adopted bill, which is not to include public enterprises, the National Bank of Serbia and the Public Media Service, to abolish the principle of budgetary constraints, where the budget is set as the most important priority in the work, not the purpose of a particular body or public enterprise and of the work to be done, which is why it is formed and exists. These things we have today in the public sector can be seen, and perhaps the best example is these local elections, which we have seen these days, when employees from public enterprises and public administrations from one city are moving to another city and there are campaigning for ruling parties. All of this has been paid by citizens of other municipalities who do not participate at all and are not participants in the election. The money, and if there is no money in the local budget, is replaced by the current reserve of the republican budget, so that practically Serbian citizens pay activists of ruling parties who then spend days and days in other cities, persuading citizens in one way or another, by hand or by force, as it would be said, to vote for ruling parties. The practice led to the fact that the state administration does not have the capacity to implement the necessary measures for which Serbia was blacklisted, as the only European country that has not been able to prevent money laundering for the financing of corruption and terrorism, as well as a country that has failed to meet a recommendation by the GREK Council of Europe within the deadline set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30619	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: six, against, no one with abstentions, has voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30620	Thank you. The proposal for this law, which seems to me, in procedure two and a half years is very short, which is that baby food is taxed at a special rate of 10%, not at a general rate of 20%. We believe and I have repeatedly repeated here in these two and a half years, every time I have been able to speak in this way and on this subject in the Assembly, that this is a small and symbolic measure which, of course, is not enough for things to change for the future and offspring in the Republic of Serbia, but it is important to show the will. A few days ago, the government adopted a strategy to combat the white plague, i.e. to increase the population's population in the future. Unfortunately, there are no concrete measures worked out there. What the citizens could hear from the address of the President of the Republic are some intentions, which are not yet, or are not in any law, and are not yet set out in any specific regulation. I hope this will happen as promised to the citizens of Serbia, but it would not surprise me that the measures proposed at the end are somewhat different from those announced. What this measure would bring is another help to families, as concerns the future cannot end up just increasing financial support for the family with children, it must also include changing the overall arrangement and relations towards families in Serbia. In Serbia, young people today because of a lack of hope in the future and certainty are not decided, primarily because of this they do not decide, to create offspring. It is necessary to arrange and strengthen the position of the mother. It is necessary to regulate and strengthen the possibility of work and parenting, all that is missing from Serbia. Of course, the law is not the subject, this topic is a small reduction which, with the other measures that are in the strategy, which I sincerely hope will be operationalized, may lead to a change in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30621	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law Proposing Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30622	Thank you, Chairman. By adopting such a law, which we have also proposed for two and a half years, I believe that the Assembly would work more effectively and that this part of the session at the beginning of each session of the regular session, when opposition MPs are trying to put some of the draft laws on the agenda, would be amended. What we are doing is simply an inability to influence in any other way that certain laws are on the agenda, because the procedure is obsolete and because we have been brought into a situation today that in the last two laws proposed by the MPs are not on the agenda. We have come to the situation that exclusively the laws proposed by the Government are put on the agenda, discussed and adopted in the Assembly, and that two thirds of these laws be sent to the Assembly by emergency procedure. So at this session, we have a five-point agenda proposal, three counts of laws that were filed a few days ago in an urgent procedure with insufficient time for MPs to get to know the bill's proposals, not enough time to meet the public and citizens who are interested in them, and since it is about education laws, we can say that these laws are tangling the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In order to break this practice, we have proposed a law on the proposed law. And if you passed a law like this, it wouldn't be possible for the Serbian Parliament to be two years, for example. does not adopt the law on missing babies and if it is committed to this, and if the obligation is established by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and that Serbia is again on the ground today and is criticised for such a relationship with this problem. I call on you, honourable fellow Members, to get out of our party trenches, to read this law, it should help this Assembly to work more efficiently, to make this Assembly work more in the interests of the citizens, to find legislative proposals that not only the Government proposes on the agenda of this session, to make proposals for legislation that allows with 30,000 signatures actually collected and to be found on the agenda of the Assembly's session, when citizens organise and propose to the Assembly one such bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30623	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the financial support of families with children, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on February 12th 2018. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30624	Thank you, Chairman. The law was passed in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the end of last autumn's meeting together in the budget package, so unfortunately there was little opportunity to discuss it in the Assembly, not in principle, but not in particular. The law should be the legal weapon of fighting white plague in Serbia, to enable stronger financial support for families with children. What's wrong with that law is the things we've proposed to change that law, and what do we think is bad? First of all, it's a bad way of calculating maternity benefits for women. Now, instead of the average income in the last 12 months, the last 18 months is the amount, according to the law, of which taxes and contributions have been paid. This will lead to the fact that in those cases when, for example, payments to pregnant women in the last few months have been reduced, or may not be paid in time to determine the maternity benefits that would be less than the salary they were due to receive. This law in case a woman in those 18 months didn't have a job account of that month with zero, so that the receipts you may have received in nine months will be divided into 18 parts and thus will be calculated monthly maternity benefits. What's bad is, in the end, it says the law that a net fee is paid which is taken as a gross basis for paying off profits. In addition, there will be a reduction in the compensation of women on maternity leave. What's bad is that there are no criteria in this law, no amount for a child's parental supplement, and so we can hear that announcement that I talked about a dozen days ago, by the President of the Republic, but it's still not put on paper, it's not official, it's not an adopted regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as prescribed by this law, which should determine the exact amounts. Why is it important not to regulate it by regulation, but by law? It is important to give certainty and certainty that those amounts that are scheduled and now announced will be paid in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30625	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has ever voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30626	The bill on culture, which we have proposed, goes in two directions. One is to include art photography in the cultural work and field of cultural activity, which was a proposal and was unfortunately part of the working version of the law. However, in the last version that was sent here to the Assembly more than two years ago, in a magical way, art photography was lost from the bill and we believe that this is bad and that those who practice art photography are deprived of certain rights. We do not agree with the government's view that this artistic photography can be subdued under digital creation and multimedia. The other thing is the way to determine the compensation for the deserved artists. What existed earlier and was defined by law was now laid down as the government's right, i.e. the competent minister to decide whether or not the artists will receive recognition on the basis of the prize he won in the form of a lifelong monthly income for a top-notch contribution to culture. We believe that the improvement of culture in Serbia is as important as the improvement of sport or any other form of operation and development of society, so we believe that this law needs to be regulated, and that is what we have suggested, that the awards in terms of lifelong monthly income for top artists are established in the same way that it was done for top athletes, which is that, automatically, after receiving the world's greatest prizes and European artists when they get conditions for it, determine this recognition, so that they can continue to be more peaceful and freed to work on their work and contribute to the development of culture in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30627	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Act on Excises, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 22 November 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30628	A year and a half ago, we first proposed to amend this law. The essence of this law is to introduce five dinar excise duty per litre for artificially sweetened drinks and juices. We felt that this was important as one of the measures to prevent obesity and combat the negative effects of obesity in children, as well as adults. Unfortunately, we have not received support for a single time by the ruling majority, although the finance minister is at one of the sessions when the Excise Act was amended, when we proposed this amendment as an amendment, said he personally had no objection and that he thinks that one such change would be in favour of Serbian citizens if it were well thought out. What encourages me is that such a solution will be adopted by the government, the National Programme for the Prevention of the Obligation of Children and Adults. The government has finally recognised an epidemic of obesity that has existed in Serbia and the world for several years and has foreseen several different goals in the programme. However, reading these objectives with which I agree, it is necessary and it will be necessary to find the means. One of the goals is to improve the diet in schools with the formation of a school environment that supports proper nutrition. I ask a question to the government – what means does it think it is to achieve this goal? I propose that the government do what many countries have done to tackle the epidemic of obesity and Hungary and Norway, the United States, Mexico, Spain, many EU countries have imposed excise duties on artificially sweetened drinks and juices, as a source of money to implement a programme to fight obesity primarily in children, but also in adults. I hope we don't have to wait here for an initiative like this to come from the government, but that we ourselves will encourage the government to do and develop a way and programmes that will achieve the objectives of this programme to prevent obesity and to provide the resources needed for this disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30629	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 12 February 2018. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30630	This is one of the new draft laws that we have proposed as a parliamentary group of SDS, NS, which is one small amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration which obliges the tax authority to notify once a year the taxpayer of his debt, i.e. whether there is a debt or more paid on the basis of the taxpayer's tax obligations, each of us has to the state of Serbia. What I don't know how to figure out, whether as a copying, I see today the announcement that the Government will make its proposal to amend the tax procedure and the tax administration and that it is precisely one of the measures to keep taxpayers before the complaint and before the forced payment is made to be informed of whether they owe and what amount they owe, what has not been the case so far. So, honourable fellow Members, I invite you to support this bill, which is clearly in line with the plan and policy of the Government of Serbia, not only the opposition MPs, since this cannot in any way damage the budget, nor endanger any interest of the government or the ruling party, ideologically or otherwise. This is a simple amendment to the law which should impose a obligation on the tax authority to notify once a year each taxpayer of the balance of his debt, or his account, whether and how much this debt is, with a guide to when it is due to settle him and whether or not the debt is subscribed, so that the citizen can pay a smaller amount of tax rather than finance the state. Citizens don't have enough resources today anyway, they certainly don't have enough resources to finance such an inefficient state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30631	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 137 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30632	Thank you. When the Law on Public Media Services was adopted, then the Law found the obligation to pay a fee for public media services, as a substitute, to substitute an electricity tax that existed up to a few months earlier. Although the ruling party, when it applied to power six years ago, announced the suspension of the tax, citizens had to wait longer than two years for the tax to be abolished, and then again, under another name, was introduced as a tax for public media services, in a way that was almost identical to the way it existed before. Today, again with the electricity bill, this tax is charged, but in a different way, so you are unable to afford what you were in until 2014 not to pay an electricity tax unless you want to finance the work of a public media service. The amendments to the Law have imposed an obligation to charge the amount of this fee first from your paid electricity bill, to transfer those funds to the public media service, and then to pay the rest of the money for Serbia's electricity supply. This amendment, which was made at the last moment of 2015, led to the fact that the Law did not provide for the exemption from this tax, because when the law was adopted, then the competent minister said that the tax would not be charged at the expense of the electricity delivered and that citizens do not have to worry. Citizens, unfortunately, have to pay this tax and have to pay all the numbers that exist in their household. So, first of all, households in the country that have multiple electric numbers, one for the house, one for the auxiliary rooms, someone has a garage or another facility. On each of those electric numbers, this fee has to be paid and there is no possibility of you getting rid of it. Our amendment to the law is very simple, so that the taxpayer under this law can be a natural person that the user only measures the number where it is reported to have a residence. In this way, we will facilitate the citizens of Serbia, prevent injustice from paying the same fee several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30633	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill establishing tax on undeclared citizens' income, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 13 September 2017. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30634	Thank you. This law is called a tax-determining law on undeclared citizens' income, and could be called "the aunt's law", meanwhile, we did not keep that in mind when we proposed it. What was the intention? The intention was that the story we have been hearing for years about how someone in politics has become rich, how there are yellow or not know what tycoons, how simply by applying legal mechanisms that have existed in the Republic of Serbia since 2010, when it is possible for the tax administration to conduct cross-examination of assets and therefore to determine the tax on those assets that have not been reported, should be done for every citizen who has property, according to our bill, more than 30 million dinars, or for all those who have been elected to any public office since September 2000. We simply want to put an end to stories about who got rich in politics and listen to stories from those who steal the most that someone had allegedly stolen before them. I call upon everyone, seeing that even in the ruling majority of times, there is a mood to pass a law on the origin of property, to bring and to adopt a bill of this law, and then to get answers about both aunt's apartment and 24 apartments in Bulgaria and about various other stories that we have been able to hear in the last few years, about the members of the current government, but also about everything we keep listening to, and we'll probably hear more about people from so-called. Former authorities, and let's see who has a problem reporting the value of their assets and whose property card agrees with the revenues he's had in the last 15, 16, 17 years. This story should put an end to the story of thieves, these or those colors, and allow all those who are in politics because they believe in some ideas, because they want to do something good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to continue without the need to justify false accusations repeated year after year. I'll be very disappointed if I don't get the support of all my colleagues, because this way needs to clear each of us who has no problem explaining to the state of Serbia what he has and how he's gained it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30635	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol amending Article 50(A) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Protocol amending Article 56. The Convention on International Civil Aviation, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 7 November 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this subject, I would like the former president of the Republic of Serbia, and I would say former politician Boris Tadic, to come out on the TV duel I invited him to and explain to me the importance of the military air force and why we have a single MiG plane left behind his rule. Also, I would like Boris Tadic to explain to me in a TV duel what summer he fled to Bulgaria in early 2008 to declare Kosovo and Metohija's self-proclaimed independence. As he fled to Romania, he was probably changing the nuts' veggie, so I would like to explain to me how he and his team, composed of Djilas, Jeremic, Pajtic, Jesic and various pearls, Djelic, were able to bring justice to the International Court, and the source is "Vikliks", with the intention of committing an act of high treason and seeking so-called "Vikiliks". non-binding opinion, which today costs us dearly, from the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Also to explain to us Boris Tadic – in which plane he carried that resolution that the UN almost kicked out of the game and introduced instead of UNMIK, which also cost us and cost us to this day? Also to explain to me Boris Tadic – is it true, and I do not believe that the Americans, i.e. Wikiliks, lie, in the dispatches arriving from Belgrade, from the US Embassy, have changed Kosovo's independence for his 2008 re-election? Is it true that in the embassy, he, his foreign minister, asked the Americans to influence Albanians not to declare Kosovo's independence, before Boris Tadic was re-elected as president of the Republic of Serbia, and then they said that he would be able to deal with it when he was elected, which happened, Boris Tadic took an oath on February 15th, and Albanians waited for independence on February 17th when Boris Tadic flew to Romania to change his vegetable vegeta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30637	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, abstention, no one voted 122 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Slavisa Ristic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a dramatic increase in violence against Serbs and the non-Albanian population in the north of Kosovo and Metohija in the period from 2013 to today, which were submitted to the National Assembly by 43 MPs on 14 December 2017. Does the MP Slavisa Ristic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30638	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you that a group of more than 40 MPs forwarded this proposal to the National Assembly in half of December 2017, therefore, in the hope that this proposal will be on the agenda of this assembly as soon as possible. It all happened before Oliver Ivanovic was killed tragically. I'll remind you once again what the reasons for this proposal are. Since the beginning of 2013 to this day in northern Kosovo and Metohija, numerous cases of violence and security endangerment have been recorded, particularly in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica and the municipalities of Leposavic, Zvečan and Zubin stream. It is certainly known to the general public that during this period serious crimes have been committed since the killings, beatings and intimidation of citizens, firearms shootings, bombings and incendiary assets on property and destruction of citizens' property. Also, in this period, we remember, and breaking ballot boxes to so-called. Kosovo elections. The victims of this violence are specifically voters and candidates as well as political parties who oppose SNS and Serb list policies in Kosovo and Metohija. This violence, unfortunately, culminated in the tragic murder of Oliver Ivanovic, and we all remember, of course, the promises, first of all, the day this murder took place, the promises of President Vukic and Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, that, since none of us have confidence, which I agree with so-called. Kosovo institutions, their police and their judicial authorities, that our state will take responsibility to find the perpetrators when it comes to the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, that it will stop the negotiation process in Brussels until the killers are found. Today, unfortunately, we see the results as they are, almost, not recently, simply missing, none of these serious crimes, until today, have been found. We therefore propose to form this polling committee, not for any other reason, not to make any policy of it, not because we hate anyone, I don't know, Vucica or this authority, but primarily because of the need to do everything in order for the security of Serbs in the territory of northern Kosovo and Metohija to be truly tolerated. We propose to this ruling majority to accept this entry into the agenda, precisely because we cannot expect the institutions, not the judicial, nor the police, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija to finish this part of the job. Of course, we are aware that the committee of inquiry cannot replace the judicial authorities, but in any case, in the right way, in the conversation with citizens, informs this assembly and proposes measures, we are deeply convinced if there is any will in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30639	Thank you, colleague Ristic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 126 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal on amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, submitted to the National Assembly by Marija Janjusevic and Bosko Obradovic on 23 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30640	I thank the chairman. It is one of the laws that have been passed quickly and under EU pressure, because how else do you explain that at the time of the strongest lobbying of the LGBT population, this law was passed in the Assembly and adopted, and that this could not have happened at times when we had a decade of Roma, when people with disabilities presented their problems, when we introduced inclusive education into schools and so on. So, the reason was still the lobby LGBT and it was made a little bit, let me say, superficial. I asked him to change to two points, actually two members. First, when sensitive groups are mentioned, they are children, parents with special needs and others. So I asked to erase that word and so forth, because there's exactly a way to manipulate this law, that people who are politically un-insinuated or in any other sense disturb the regime are being accused of discrimination. I myself have been discriminated in this House countless times because I am defiled, and I am not allowed a replica, but well, compared to what Serbian citizens have the opportunity to endure it is nothing. I also asked to delete this part of the statement about my sexual orientation because I think it's a private matter for everyone and that a law like this is currently in force enables the promotion of homosexuality to minors. We are witnessing that there are lobbys trying to get it into our textbooks without anyone asking the parents in Serbia if they agree. This is also contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees parents that they can raise their children in accordance with their own moral, religious and other principles. When it comes to cases of discrimination against people with disabilities, the freshest example was Mrs. Nevena Jovanovic, president of the FIBI Foundation who is a blind person and who has requested a secret vote in the Belgrade elections in the recent elections. In time, she addressed the City Election Commission and requested that its right be fulfilled at the polling post. However, it ended by having her ballot taken from her hand and she doesn't know today about the fate of her ballot. So much for discrimination and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30641	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda with the point Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Family Protection in Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly by Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 17 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30642	Thank you. When it comes to family policy, I am pleased that, after nearly 20 years of persistent insistence of the Serbian Dvora Movement, that the family in the first place, that our biggest problem, that Serbia loses its citizens, that Serbs disappear as a nation, finally came to the SNS agenda, we heard the president of the Republic of Serbia, had made a pompous promise of financial assistance for the birth of children. I now expect these promises to be translated into concrete legal proposals, because otherwise, it will be just another one in a series of lies and false promises. As far as financial support is concerned, there is once again some systematic approach, there is no family story, support for marriage, support for young people, further support for mothers to harmonize motherhood, work, career, because it is populist. On the site of our minister without a portfolio for demographics and population policy, there is a national strategy for the acceleration of birth signed by Bozidar Djelic. She's standing there for the decorations. There hasn't been one since 2008, yet no one's applying. So it's all just populism and advertising. I ask you all to really start systematically once to deal with the problem of birth, simply to deal with the apparent problem of disappearing, because for a simple reproduction it takes for the fertility rate to be 2.1 in Serbia and it is now 1.43. I will certainly refer to an important segment of family breaking in totalitarian ideologies. I don't want to believe that this regime wants to lead us into it, because when the family is broken, the individual is far easier to rule, then the state takes care of it, and the family and all those benefits of the family environment just disappear. So it's simply cruel not to pay attention to all segments of family life from that financial support that sounds so beautiful, to all the necessary other things, therefore a systematic approach. The Dvori will be happy to help you with that, because we've been dealing with this problem for 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30643	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 130 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma, during World War II, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović, 14 November 2016. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30644	Thank you. Again, it is a proposal to adopt a resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, because here for 70 years we have nothing concrete to condemn everything that the Serbian people were exposed to in the 20th century, instead of remembering our victims and looking for satisfaction in every possible way, we ourselves allow our victims to be forgotten, not to be respected properly and so we come to the possibility that even the victim becomes a executioner, that the Serbs themselves create a nation that is genocidal, which we cannot possibly allow. So our generation obligation is to bring a resolution that will condemn all these crimes and make every Serbian victim remembered, as well as a Jewish victim and Roma. We are witnessing that in neighbouring Croatia, they even try to reduce the number of victims and one such resolution would actually show that we respect ourselves and that we keep a memory of our victims, that we do not allow them to be killed over and over again. If we don't respect ourselves, why should others respect us? In that sense, let me tell you that, even the Roman Catholic Church did not condemn these crimes, and they were otherwise able to look up to the German people who simply confessed to the Holocaust, apologized for doing so on behalf of the German people by the Nazis, so not all Germans. In the same way, our neighbours from Croatia could at least partially compensate for this injustice. We ask that the resolution still contains the fact that the independent state of Croatia was the only country during World War II where concentration camps for child extinction existed, in Stari Gradiška, Jasenovac, Ustica, Jablanac, Jastrebarski, Tell Jastrebarski, Gornji river near Jastrebarski, Križevci and Logo town, where 42,791 children were killed. With all this in mind, especially in light of the growing threat of Serbian national and status issues in today's Republic of Croatia, I believe that the objectives, that all formal and particularly political conditions are met, that the motion for a resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma, during World War II, should be placed on the agenda and voted in the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for that in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30645	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 127. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the matter of water, I'd say stop the Imperial galley from passing their yachts. These yachts sail in different directions. One also sailed to Hilandar. These days for the second time, one of our politicians has appeared in Hilandara, who, in time, swore to build a family association and under no circumstances would make a party. He swore on the Three Hand. The politician in the people known as the company's component "Kradulovic del Boskic company", took 5,000 euros after the oath to build a family organisation, not to build a party and do the opposite. He made a party, he kept the money to himself, and he cheated on the clergy, and he probably tried to do it again. In the people now, after the oath, this politician is known as the Holy Bostic Left Hand. A team earlier, justifiably suspected that after the Hilandar robbery, he had robbed both his own party and the money he was supposed to return to the Republic of Serbia's budget after the campaign, and he kept to himself and the sum was over 200,000 euros. Don't be surprised when this politician with a thick communist background, whose grandfather shut down the farmers' towers in 1945, whose father went to Kumrovac and was secretary in "Hydrogradnja", don't be surprised when he tells you about genocide in Croatia. I voted in favour of the proposal, but I wonder why the "Storm", "Blash", did not enter the proposal, the latest persecution of more than 400,000 Serbs from the Republic of Croatia? It is likely that the promoter, and here the interpreter, was with Goran Jesic, who believes that the bombing of the NATO Pact, which also did not enter this genocide, some kind of humanitarian action, that they bombed us rightly, and they probably think that, given that the bearer of the list was Sanda Raskovic Ivić, the action "Storm", "Blesak" and all other Croatian actions, that these were humanitarian actions, as Sanda Raskovic Ivić claimed...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30647	You're bringing the end, colleague Rističević. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30648	And that's why there's no part of it in their proposal, and no matter what I voted for, I'm asking the promoter to supplement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30649	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against none, abstentioned, none. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 June 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30650	Thank you very much, but first of all, under Article 88, point 10, I ask that the quorum be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30651	All right. I ask my fellow Members to insert the cards into the electronics units. We're going back to work. Here you go, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30652	Thank you very much, working conditions have been created, we have a quorum, although it is now on the verge of disappearing. But I hope that we will have a quorum and that we will have enough patience for all fellow Members of Parliament to hear proposals that benefit Serbia's citizens, for the benefit of the Serbian state, for the benefit of health. This is one of the four bill proposals I've been proposing for a while now, which concerns health. It concerns the health of individuals, but also the health of the nation, since this is reflected, the behavior of these individuals depends on their health and can affect the general state of health of the nation. As for the Government, the proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act says that the member and the name behind Article 11 are changed and said – to establish the health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest, and says Article 11: "Before the Government is elected, any proposed member of the Government must provide medical assurance of health skills for the establishment of a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the Government cannot be in another public office in the state body or body of the AP, municipalities, cities, cities of Belgrade, or perform an act that is legally incompatible with the duties of members of the Government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest. A member of the Government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. “ I think there is a general agreement and a need for one country, one nation, that citizens in one country deserve sound authority and then that health can be measured according to different parameters. But my proposal is to first determine that basic parameter, which is whether future members of the government, before they are nominated or elected as a member of the Government, are able to pass and be positively assessed at least on a medical examination concerning the health skills of the government bodies, which is, of course, much lower than the function of the elected person. Therefore, I expect fellow MPs, all in the hall who are confident of both their health and the need for a healthy government to lead this country healthy, to vote for the bill and to vote "yes".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30653	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30654	And this is from that group of laws on health. This time, I expect to really get a positive answer because this is not about what is difficult to establish as a positive, which is the health of candidates and current performers of high public functions, but here this bill concerns the Labour Act, where it is said that Article 187 of attitude 1 changes and reads: "During pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, absence from work for special child care and absence from work due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract". It's a sublimation of a great demagogue story about the need to be a younger nation, to have greater growth than mortality, to protect women, children, sick, gender equality, generation equality, equality in the broadest sense of words. If there is a will in this highest body politically in this country, there should be no doubt that it should vote for this law. It has nothing to do with who's the party color, what uniform he's wearing, how many times he's gone from one, eight, nine, twelve parties to another. It has nothing to do with what he lied about in the election campaign. It has nothing to do with how much he invested state money in the capillaries. It has nothing to do with jeeps without plates, but with dark glass going around when elections are in a city or municipality in Serbia. It has nothing to do with any of that. It has nothing to do with lies being broadcast through state and other television about political opponents. It has nothing to do with night walks around big cities in the white world. It has to do with the fact that if a child is sick, if he's sick, if he's on sick leave for more than 30 days that the employer can't fire him. This, if you do not understand, the citizens are, guarantees social security, guarantees the right to be treated. Everything that should be a normal mark in a normal state in Europe is guaranteed at the beginning of the 21st century. I call on you to show everyone how many MPs we are and how well we think about Serbia and to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30655	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30656	Of course, I can't resist, especially around this law that's part of that group of health laws. He says, he was filed two years ago and something, so it has nothing to do with direct, but you may recognize, it may still have something to do with a current man who presents himself as president of Serbia, says - a bill supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, Article 1. The President's Selection Act, the "Official Messenger", adds point 2a, in Article 11(3), which reads as point 2a – Lekarska credentials on health skills for the establishment of a working relationship in state bodies. It is necessary and it would be a shame that so far it has not been contained in this law, because it would certainly prevent many of the disastrous consequences that we have had in the last few years, God, half a dozen years, if not more, and that is that this law guarantees that candidates, not only will the elected president, but all candidates who run for president of the state, will at least be primarily healthy, that we have this belief that they are capable of barring the level of coffee cooks in some state body, and then there are probably some other abilities. What would have happened if this law had been passed, or what wouldn't have happened? There would be no hallucinations. For example, the Danube-Morava-Vardar-Egey Sea canal, so we don't know where that water is going, the Black Sea of the Danube or the Aegean Sea across the Vardar River. It's a little hard to connect, even little kids know that, but some presidents didn't know that. Or, say, does someone have a clear view of whether it's good for women to have babies or not? Is it not good a year ago because when they give birth they want to stop working and get away with it or is it good for them to have a baby because they're going to get paid for it? Or is Haradinaj a war criminal or a coalition partner? Or, is it wise, beneficial for Serbia patriotism, the commitment of the best law school student who studied him for six years to base, to wander around New York at night around closed bookstores and to see what he would buy tomorrow. As far as I know, no book has been brought in either private suitcases or in diplomatic suitcases from America, something else has been brought in, that other competent authorities will determine the exact amount, the currency label and the general place where it is removed. I suggest we pass this law and prevent it from happening again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30657	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for two, against one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017. Here's a colleague of Zivkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30658	Thank you. This is the fourth, last of the group of health laws, the law, finally something that will interest you, about the addition of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, so it says - in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the "Official Messenger" and the one from 2000, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2011, etc., in Article 44(2) after point 1), point 1a is added, which reads - Lek's assurance of health skills for the establishment of a working relationship in state bodies. So equality is guaranteed, the same conditions are for both the candidate for MP and the candidate for minister, and the candidate for president of the state. We said, these are the primary health conditions that anyone who wants to work in the state authorities should meet, and of course it would be logical that someone who has greater powers, such as the MPs, should at least have, or at least the ministers and the Prime Minister, at least have some powers, or the president of the state should at least be elected in a good way so that he has the authority, that his health skills correspond to those jobs. I'm someone who presents himself today as president of the state once here – How are you President, do you feel capable of what you're doing? I didn't get the answer. I don't think it mattered if I got the answer, it wasn't a question of whether I was going to get the answer. The question is that Serbian citizens, the public of Serbia, know the answer to that question. We don't need to know where anyone wanders at night, whether in New York, if I don't know where, it doesn't matter, what lunch, dinner. That, by a good rule and some bonton, by protocol, and by God and by law, since the war of Serbia is public, we should know, but maybe it's better if we don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30659	Comrade Zivkovic, are you talking about the Law on the Selection of People's MPs or the President of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30660	Absolutely, because MPs must show responsibility, and they will show their responsibility by voting for my bill. So, if you haven't listened from the beginning, I'm asking that in Article 44(2) after point one, add point one (a) which is that doctoral confidence candidates for MPs must have a medical ability to establish a working relationship in state bodies. So it's my ambition, and I've only given one broader interpretation of how important it is. I'd have a hundred examples, and you know them for sure, if some colleagues had passed and become MPs without this medical conviction, but what do we do? Let us see that in the future we do not have such problems and that the problems some colleagues now earn are being tackled preventively.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30661	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. MPs and citizens of Serbia are very responsible, they know who to vote for, who to be their president, who to represent them in the National Assembly, so I put your proposal to the vote. (Zoran Zivkovic: I agree. Just to win the election, you don't need anything anymore. Two and a half million votes, that's all. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—four against—one with abstention. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the 2004 session – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ships' Balasic Waters and Casualties, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 15 November 2017. Does the MP, Marijan Risticevic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying that reads – In order to recognize someone else's value, it should have its own. We've heard a lot from the previous speaker. Today we let the "heinken" talk about honesty. We let the drones talk about work. We also let people with diagnosis talk about diagnosis. My fellow farmer, in an attempt, was freed from the army. His chart reads – Chronic discomfort in everyday life towards itself and the environment, and includes significant subjective and social problems. It's about the specific lifestyle of a person and her relationship with others. Antisocial guy. And among other things, not to read everything – a manipulative person and prone to lying and having weak impulse control. He deeply believes he deserves more, which is the basis of his self-centered behavior. They say - his mental state is such that even by punishing him is incorrigible. Now you guess who it's about. So someone needs to have their own value to confess to someone else. Someone who talks about Haradinaj, who released 2,108 Albanian terrorists, including Mazrek brothers, who immediately committed a coup in 2004, and before that killed children in the bathroom, I think, in Gorazdevec. So someone like that has the nerve to move someone because the Serbs at KIM estimate that they would not improve their position if they were in opposition. There are other sayings about my fellow farmer. One of them would have read, and if knowledge had limits, there was no ignorance. He showed it to himself. But already when he adores that song by Djordjet Balasevic, who becomes an anthem, who calls peasants the most ugly names, the saying would be this: the bottom of my fellow farmer is a very high position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30663	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for—22, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30664	Thank you. The people who are following this transmission have just seen a typical example of what happens when a law that implies health examination of candidates for MPs is not passed, but what do we do? Some parliaments are more democratic than usual, some are five-friends, some are open to various inclusions, what to do. Maybe it's some step of the Serbian parliament standing on the edge of a break-in, so that's the step forward. But academic honesty is one area in which I know reliably that the largest number of MPs on the other side has a big problem with it, in understanding, either literal, or essential understanding of any of those two words. Congratulation as such, it's already a mystery in itself, for a good part of those who won't vote for a doctor's examination before they run for parliamentary office and academics, about not telling you much. Let's remind the public, so someone's going to be judged sometime. Some will judge history, some will judge justice, some will judge, there are, they say, some forces up there. I don't believe that. I believe more in the good of the judiciary that will once be created in this country. It says – academic congratulation is based on independent work of writing, as well as strict respect for other people's copyrights. That means that you don't let someone who's more sick than someone write you some text that you read, like just now, all full of lies, but you still think he's yours, so you think you're smart, and you don't see it, but the respect of the people around you is such that even without that lie, they recognize you as the smartest, smartest, most beautiful, most capable, most common among you. I'm trying, here, this is the 86th time I'm talking about this bill, I mean, maybe I wasn't clear enough, so here I am now trying in one metaphorical -- a plastic way to show what it looks like, like before. So, he takes a man, he spells letters, he almost knows how to read, he lies, who says a folk proverb, insults some fellow who sits here in the same room, by chance I, a completely fictional text about something that never existed, but it doesn't matter. That is the consequence and it is your fault, colleagues, who have just not voted in favour of the bill on medical examination for candidates for MPs. I invite you to vote in favour of my bill, regardless of what academic or congratulation means.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30665	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30666	Thank you. Here, I propose for twenty-and-a-half times that our Assembly will pass a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. This genocide was carried out by the Ottoman Empire, then, over Armenians who had no state at the time. The heirs of the Ottoman Empire live in Turkey today. The state of Turkey has recognised Kosovo, and the Armenians are already a few dozen years old, for God's sakes almost 100 years old, a country that, as far as I can remember, has not recognised Kosovo. This resolution in the same or similar text was adopted by parliaments of the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, 20 US countries and many others. As you can see, we have here on various sides, both religious and political and geographically, many countries have recognized this from the pitets to the victims of the Armenian people, but also from one side, which is to show that they do not accept this way of resolving any dispute. A genocide committed over any nation, Armenians, Serbs, any third, fourth, eighth, is unacceptable and should not happen again. Two days ago, it was the anniversary of Serbia's bombing. She wasn't convicted anywhere as genocide, even with the largest quasi patriots in this country, and some of them in this House, but the intentions were the worst possible and no justification of the NATO Pact had in saying that she was bombing a lunatic who before the other lunatics was at the head of this country...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30667	Comrade Zivkovic, I ask you to take care of how you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30668	Therefore, if you think genocide is an acceptable thing, then vote against this resolution. If you think genocide is an unacceptable thing, I urge you to vote for this resolution. Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30669	My colleague Jovanovic, I can't give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure because there's no open debate. (Nedjo Jovanovic: The Rules of Procedure indicate that we can point then. He can't, he can't. Only a quorum can. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30670	No, it's not a mistake, but it has nothing to do with that health. This has to do with spending people's money, which, of course, always has to do with health, but indirectly, not just like the other day. What's my suggestion? My proposal is to prohibit these laws from advertising political parties, i.e. to write in Article 49a, the ban on renting terms in all electronic media broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit election lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. These last elections we saw in Belgrade and these previous elections for the president were, I guess, where we were elected to the Serbian Parliament, along with all other anomalies, showed another one, which is that large sums of people's money, budget pairs are spent on aesthetic, political, moral and any other way unacceptable content called – a politically propaganda programme. We've seen all kinds of stupid things, and I think we agree on that. I don't want to mention any party special, no list special. I don't understand anyone who got into that sort of thing. In this election, Belgrade's, according to unofficial data, the amount is more than 5.5m euros. So 5.5m euros was given by someone, of course, by the people, because who would give their money, and also where it comes from, which they would say, rather than spending budget money, the money of Serbian citizens who could have been used in five, ten, 50 better ways. For example, a major problem is the accommodation of preschool children in Belgrade's kindergartens, there are not enough of them. The 5.5 million would be enough to provide a place for all children whose parents want to put them in preschool institutions through the adaptations of the content that are suitable for that. But that didn't happen. Not to say how much it was possible to fund the treatment and healing of the same children who had an accident to be sick and not just children, but also some others, even some who were subject to those three laws that were at the beginning of my address today. Therefore, I call on you to ban this law from throwing money away on moral, ethical, political and any unacceptable advertising and for that money to be directed towards the protection and treatment of children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30671	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30672	Thank you. This is the second law that is compatible with the previous law in the sense that it prohibits the waste of people's money on moral, ethical, aesthetic, any fourth, fifth, sixth, unacceptable content called political advertising. It is said to be deleted in Article 23(3) and thus to reduce the possibility that the money paid by the state to the parties for their operation should also be used for this kind of political advertising. The question, of course, is completely justified, and why are we doing this, how will the citizens of Serbia hear what these parties are offering? It is perfectly natural for voters to have the right to hear the programmes, the biographies of candidates, the political goals, everything that political parties should normally say in the campaign anywhere in the world, and also in Serbia. For Serbia, it is a fully justified question of how this should be resolved. I know that you are all troubled by this question – how to find a way for people to find out what politicians are offering, and that is all, all political parties, and not just these privileged current ruling parties. How do we get to the citizens without having those stupid commercials? I have to tell you that some time ago, not so long ago, one 150 years ago, and I totally understand why this has not yet come to your understanding, about 150 years ago, there was something called a political discussion, a confrontation of attitudes, a debate about something where, you imagine, representatives of the government, on the one hand, and representatives of the opposition, on the other hand, in front of the citizens, sometimes in the squares, sometimes in the halls, and today it is possible through electronic media, to face issues that are important to the electoral process, whether it is in Smederjevska Palanca, whether it is in Belgrade, whether it is at the level of the state, whether they are candidates for presidents who have already confirmed that they are capable of completing affairs in the state bodies and thus skip this great problem of finding out what anyone is offering. So, if you didn't know, I invite you to ask around in the first bookstore, go to night, go past the bookstore, and you'll see, somewhere it says, and it's political history, and it says there's a possibility that 150 years ago that people might find out what politicians think without seeing it through fake, ugly, lying commercials that are funded by people's money that can be used for 100 much better needs and purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30673	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30674	Yes, two years ago, the bill on planning and planning of space and settlements was submitted. The constitutional basis for this is contained in Article 97 of point 12 of the Constitution of Serbia, and the need is obvious. The need to regulate the area of planning, planning and settlements in a legal way is all around us. Do you want to look at it in the interior of Serbia, for example, through all those works that have been done without construction permits in the last 7-8 days in Smederjevska Palanca, or do you want to see it through wild, wild construction that has been going on and unfortunately is happening today in the streams of the Sava River, above all, where many important people, under quotes, have done these countries illegally to themselves or will you look at it in Nebojsa Street number 8a, where besides the construction ban, the order to crash etc. continue construction because investors say – well, what do we care, we are close to these from this advanced party, or the most obvious, best example of it, at the same time, the worst example of it, which is this "Belgrade on Water", I hope it will not be underwater when Sava rises, and this is the biggest illegal site in the history of humanity, unfortunately, and it happens in our spaces. The biggest illegal construction before that was pyramids in Egypt and if the genius who invented it or the complete idiot, I don't know what it's called within that party or coalition, came up with the idea of attracting the market, tourists, sorry, into Serbia, as they are now coming to Egypt to see the pyramids, then maybe I can think of making sense. I'm afraid it doesn't look much like the Keeps Pyramid or any other, no matter who suggests it and who builds it and who criminally launders money through the Sava, through that project, sees himself as Pharaoh. However, I think that reality, especially those medical examinations, can lead to us going back to reality and saying -- people, let's deal with building in Serbia by doing some unusual things. First, you take the general plan, then you take the plan of detailed regulation, then you ask for a permit to build, and then you get after all the papers and a permit to start building and then you build by law. I also know that it is a great unknown in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30675	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for - four against - one with abstention. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Joint Undertaking for Security "Such Insurance" Kragujevac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30676	I propose a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the authorisation for the work of the Shareholder Insurance Company "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. In addition to the protocol-technical stuff, which is how the survey board is educated, who makes it, who calls the first session, there are also topics, i.e. the tasks of the survey board, which is to look at and determine the facts that led to the fact that this once healthy home that provided work for 400 and some employees, which had a rating and financial situation and its capital better than 80% of other insurance houses, why they were deprived of their work license, that is to say, was prevented from privatising them, and by the assurance of the people who led the house, they were on the threshold to sell it, this was otherwise not private, not privatisation, but sales, one of the world's largest leaders in the insurance area, but would be violated monopolies or or orrigopoli, more precisely, several insurance houses that are holding and share that market. Then the illegal decisions of the governor of the National Bank, and it seems to me that the Board of Governors, has come to prevent that purchase, that sale, and that what we have today, is that it is in the area of insurance, and under the conductor's baton of one part of the NBS, primarily the very top of the governor, which, if I remember well, is also the deputy president of the ruling party and some others, leads to the criminalisation of the jurisdiction, authority and behaviour of that institution, which is of great national importance. So I invite you, so that we don't carry a speck or a drop of dirt from that job, to justify our existence as the largest political institution in this country, and to come to the conclusion that through the survey board, we shed light on all the facts that are related to this job. This is the last law I'm talking about. I'm sure after this, there will be some commentators who have not passed that first law on medical skills, and before this vote again I call for the quorum to be determined by Article 88, paragraph 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30677	Thank you so much, so before the Assembly becomes aware of the addition of the agenda, I ask fellow Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting unit. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the obligation to preserve the population of bats in Europe, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 January 2018. My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30678	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, bats are useful in agriculture, and these white mice, dancing in front of my fellow farmer's eyes, are being explained. Says the doctor with the VMC Nis, 1978, I ask you to listen carefully and to guess who it is – an unscrupulous person who is exclusively focused on his own interest, tends to break the rules and tend to aggression, often makes sensations in the outside environment, has no developed empathy, nor cares about the feelings of other people. I almost certainly have to say it's my fellow farmer who told us about academic honesty. Look at the wonders, the man who bought high school in the evening, with dinner, easy. A man who's obviously ludicrous, i.e., i was going to say lucid, but not even the first thing I said - ludicidal is not far from the truth. How to interpret Nusic's saying on his case, he says – there are people who look more forward to other people's misfortune than their happiness. Imagine a man who applauds the fire and invites others to applaud the fire. Imagine that fellow farmer Zoran Zivkovic, who recently because of "Beograd na Voda", because of a small fire, and he stood up for Belgrade in the fog with his coalition partners, so when he did not pass them, he advocated that the fire burns what someone else did. Imagine a round of applause for the fire. Whether this person is lucid or insane, let the viewers declare it themselves. As far as property relations are concerned, Mr. Zivkovic, or Mr. Chairman, I apologize, tell Mr. Zivkovic that we are Nemnjiæi for him, not because of the family line, because of the vine, we are German and for the money. They're all the estates for us. So they have more than they need. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, he apologizes that you couldn't hear anything clever from the evening school, from more in vain. To finish, who ran the country, and he ran it, we did it well. There is no free international curse when you wish someone to fail says -- that God forbid Zivkovic was your prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30679	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30680	I thank the chairman, and I hope that these laws will at least make a little bit of discussion in this assembly. This is a proposal to amend the Criminal Code, which for a year and a half I have been trying to put on the agenda with the support of, hopefully, this time and most of the MPs who have stayed in the room because it actually maintains all the face of this government and all the hypocrisy. This is one of the most hypocritical members of the Criminal Code. The new one was a year and a half ago, and it just seemed to be justified. It actually prohibits the denial of war crimes and genocide, but only those who do not concern the Republic of Serbia and those who have not been committed on our behalf. When the minister explained, Minister Kuburovic, this member of the Criminal Code, she said other courts were not included in this provision because they are ad hoc courts, or courts with limited time. I could understand that that's what the hairdressers or bakers said at the time, which she unfortunately respects more than her own profession. However, this playing with the right makes the Republic of Serbia the only country in Europe in which it is today that convicted war criminals for war crimes during the war are lecturers at the Military Academy, and this is what makes the Republic of Serbia the only country in Europe where convicted war criminals can be promoters of the ruling party's policy. This is exactly what makes the Republic of Serbia the only country in Europe where the military minister can be Alexander Vulin, the most recognizable hoarder in both war and war, and here's what we see, the hoofer and in peace. I call on you once again, and I will always do so, as long as this proposal is not on the agenda, so that as soon as you look into the truth in the eyes and that you can catch up with the ultimate strength and in fact, not just a fake in front of European officials, we face the past, we face war crimes and genocide that were committed on our behalf and we open a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30681	Comrade Tepic, I give you a reminder. I'm putting your motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the two abstentions. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30682	Of course I want the President's word, and this reminder cannot be considered applicable unless you give an explanation, which is why you gave me a warning earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30683	You have repeatedly said that genocide has been committed on our behalf, among other things and in my name.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30684	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30685	That's why you got the warning. When someone does something for you, it means you're okay with it. Do you want to contact to explain a proposal to supplement the agenda or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30686	I'm sorry, but you didn't explain at all why you gave me the warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30687	I don't even owe you one. Do you want it or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30688	Yes, it is. Of course I want to explain and I want an explanation for the warning, because you have no right to give me...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30689	I give you a second warning. Do you want to continue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30690	I do, and I ask you to explain to me why you gave me the warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30691	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the three abstentions. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30692	If you're going to shut me up, you're not going to make it. I will continue to speak, and we will see who is acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. So, by amending the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit, I intend to return to municipalities and cities an amount of nearly five billion dinars, which the central government had denied them a year and a half ago, that is, to their advantage. As someone who is an advocate of spreading autonomy, including local self-government, especially financial autonomy, I have to advocate and I think it is right that the particular principle of subsidiarity is promoted as the basis for the successful development of municipalities and cities. However, I always have a shared conscience, especially in recent years, when I propose this law, because on the other hand, I know that even if my proposal were to be adopted after the debate, it would mean that the public budgets would unfortunately continue to be torn apart and torn apart by the mayors and municipalities of the SNS and that what would be returned to them, even in the amount of these five billion dinars, unfortunately, would end up based on party and personal interests. I'm going to give you a concrete example right now. My colleague spoke earlier about the abuses of the current budget reserve of the Republic. I'm just going to mention it here specifically, for example. abuse of current budget reserves and in general public tenders and public competitions, e.g. In the city of Pancheva. You among your ranks have one MP who is also from Pančevo, called Dusan Borkovic, and I want to publicly present here information and evidence that almost 200 million dinars have been allocated from the public budget of the city of Pančeva over the course of two years for two car clubs, family clubs, behind which Dusan Borkovic stands, so almost two million euros... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30693	Ask for a word again, it's an electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30694	So, out of the public budget of the city of Panchev, who are full and those who voted for this power and who did not vote at all, two million euros went to the two car club Dusan Borkovic, which is probably the reason why he was awarded the parliamentary mandate here for discipline, that is, a sport that is not Olympic and that for sport where he drives a car for a premium, so he drives for money, and that in no way... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30695	Comrade Tepic, I take your word. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are four, four, four, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Non-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Sustainable Transport Protocol under the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 January 2018. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Carpathians must be seen as a dam, as a dam for the collapse of the environment. Before we see the air and before the birds start coughing, which is probably why we would be charged with some genocide, we have to look after the environment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Carpathians protect us from fascism and have protected us. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Carpathia is far from Pristina, from Kosovo and Metohija. Today they arrested Mark Djuric. From Kosovo, 250,000 Serbs were expelled from NATO aggression, NATO bombs, where tens of thousands of various rockets and explosive devices were dropped. To talk about Serbs as fascists, about genocide, is also greater genocide than genocide. Maybe Carpathia protected you in World War I, where 30% of the Serb population died, if it hadn't been for Carpathia, maybe more would have died. In World War II, 17% of the Serb population died. From the Bosnian Federation, territory outside Republika Srpska, 500,000 Serbs were evicted or expelled, only from Sarajevo, 150 thousand. Currently in Sarajevo, unfortunately, there are more Chinese and Arabs than Serbs, and there were 150 thousand. More than 400,000 Serbs have been expelled from the territory of Croatia, the independent state of Croatia, for which I also blame Serbian communists. Thousands have been killed. From Kosovo and Metohija 250,000. Despite all the hardships, the national structure and hundreds of thousands of refugees who arrived in Serbia, without anything, the national structure of Serbia has not changed by a hair, by a single number. Serbia should be proud that despite the war winds of the 1990s, despite some minor smuts made by Serbs, despite genocides made against Serbs in three wars, despite various bombings, including the Allied Easter and 15 other bombings in the Second World War despite NATO bombings, Serbia did not respond to genocide. Serbia is a small country, but Serbia is a great Serbia because it is a country of great people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30697	I thank my colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 120 MPs for – 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No 3 of the Economic and Technical Co-operation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30698	This is the last time I'm answering. I want to support this agreement and I would just like to tell these Eurosceptics at any cost, you know – one is the goal, and the other is the path to the goal. We're on our way to the finish line now. It's necessary that we don't stop going. It's necessary that we don't go backwards. But on the deal with China and the construction of the railway towards the European Union, obviously we want to deal with exports, to deal with production, to deal with normal things, to create, to do, to make our budget full, to keep our currency stable, to keep inflation under control, to make it as large as possible, to make imports covered by exports -- now it's 80%, but it's going to be 100%, not to violate foreign reserves, to try every day, each of us, to do what's in our power. But I'm telling you that neither the agreement with China, nor the Iron, would be that the Chinese, and other investors, see that the chance on that path is a broad market for the European Union in which we are currently performing, and this is the chance that they will invest in this country, thus strengthening our foreign exchange reserves, to strengthen the currency that is currently second in the world, and that is why Eurosceptics should also make sure that they don't scare investors who come from Russia and China, who come here to place goods on the European Union market that measure hundreds of millions. I stayed in debt, just before someone called about the sport of someone from Panchev. The one who called from Panchev someone else from Panchev, the lady has an apartment in a 99 square-square Panchev. She has an apartment that was acquired during her time as the regional sports secretary, in Novi Sad, of 164 square metres. This apartment is enough to keep those banana shorts out of the way, that in winter conditions, there is room for banana shorts to keep, that feast is sporty enough to keep them in their apartment, which is wide enough to keep that new game of hers in the winter conditions, sportingly some content, to be held in her apartment for which she has singled out millions of dinars. Also, he could be a bodybuilding club in Panchev to put in his apartment, since she spent millions of dinars on him. That's what I'm obliged to say, and I hope you'll support your cooperation with China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-26-0.u30699	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, ever voted 121 people's messengers for – 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2016. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for three peoples, no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on International Road Traffic, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 30 November 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for the four Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Trade and Economic Co-operation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for—seven MPs, against—no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinema Co-production (Revised), which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 8 January 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, self-abstained, ever voted 126 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Temporary Import, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 24 January 2018. Does the MP, Marijan Risticevic, want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of urbanism, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 January 2018. Does the MP, Marijan Risticevic, want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: a draft law on the national framework for qualifications of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government, the draft law on textbooks, which was submitted by the Government, the draft law on the national infrastructure of geospace data, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -132, no one, with abstentions, has voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda on a proposal to merge the debate, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -132, against - no one, abstentioned - two, voted by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the Agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, in general. We're done with this for today. We continue our work tomorrow, on Tuesday, March 27, 2018, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
