ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 137 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. This government, by taking office, has almost sworn to wage a persistent fight against crime, against corruption, and is unable to overcome corruption in its own ranks. In the structures of the government, where everything really should work best, corruption in some places has ruled that actually power no longer exists. The most recent case I've learned, I've learned from reliable sources, is the criminal affair of Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. Rasim Ljajic is the leader of one of Serbia's drug cartels... What do you want? What's the matter? What do you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47845	Ambassador, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47846	He's throwing something at me, and he doesn't dare say it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47847	It's the right of an MP. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47848	Is it his right not to dare? Okay. Rasim Ljajic is the main leader of one of the strongest cartels. The police have all the operational knowledge. It's all documented and nobody's doing anything, because he's the Deputy Prime Minister. Why? Why isn't the police taking over? Because he's the president of one of the party's compatriots in the National Assembly, a party that is not alone able to pass the censorship. Milorad Mijatovic: How can you say that? What do you two want? What the hell? I can. I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47849	I beg the Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47850	Punish them, Maya.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47851	Call me back later for a word. I ask the MPs to make it possible to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47852	What are the Sadaks of the Party? Parties that can't get past the censorship on their own. (Muamer Bacevic: Criminal.) They'll show you a criminal. Okay, you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47853	A five-minute break, please. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs of both, but both MP groups to stop earning each other. I also heard who it was the first time. So, please, there's a lot of stuff here when you ask questions. No one's ever reacted like you before. No one's ever reacted before. There's a lot going on. There's a lot of things being said and they're asking questions about Alexander Vukic. No one reacted like this. If you can listen - you can, if you can't - you can't. But I'm asking both MPs' groups just so that you don't communicate with each other, that we agree so, and it's right to ask the question, and if it's true, it's not true, we'll see, slowly. (Vojislav Seselj: Shall I continue? ) You have the right to continue, I'm just trying to make some sort of order in the O.R. and to agree because there are questions and questions and additions to the agenda that don't suit many in this room, so no one reacts in this way. Are you going to go on or are you going to give up? Call back and let's try.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47855	What are these sad parties? They are parties that are unable to win a censorship in the elections alone, and then join a big party to get several parliamentary seats. Such parties, in fact, prevent the normal work of the National Assembly, because they then form special parliamentary groups, rebuke the number of parliamentary groups and are disabled in the normal work of the party that are able to win the censorship. Of course, this is the second thing of the Rules of Procedure to throw out the possibility that any party, which did not perform independently in the elections, form an independent parliamentary group. So, as they went to the elections, so did the parliamentary groups to form. About Rasim Ljajic there are many other data. We have repeatedly opened the problem of fake diplomas here, Tomislav Nikolic, and I have confidently learned that Rasim Ljajic also has a fake diploma. He studied in Sarajevo, came to the fourth year, then started a war and suddenly appeared with a finished degree. Mr. Micunovic, it's a medical school that lasts almost six years. So, for two and a half years, someone passed all his exams and showed up with a degree, a fake doctor. If I didn't just talk about Rasim Ljajic, our Muslim brothers wouldn't think I had anything against them. I've never had and I haven't, I have to mention that after a long period of hostility, he's back in the political alliance with Suleiman Ugljanin. I expect an urgent response from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and from Foreign Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47856	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47857	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47858	Yes, it is, two and a half and two and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47859	One more thing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47860	No, no, no, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47861	This is even more important.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47862	I believe so, but time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47863	How? It says two minutes and 44 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47864	It is two and a half before the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47865	They took my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47866	No, they're not, I'm sure of it. That's enough of what you asked. You'll probably get an answer. That's not my call. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47867	Thank you, President. I ask the question of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Last week I asked here -- why is Serbia still blacklisted on the FATF, as a country suspected of money laundering and terrorist financing? We are facing another reality these days, which is that the Anti-Corruption Body of the Council of Europe has launched a procedure against Serbia for not applying recommendations to fight corruption since 2015. So, I ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic -- why has none of the 13 recommendations of the 2015 Council of Europe's Anti-Corruption Body still been adopted and not applied? Also, why did Serbia not even respect the deadline in which the report was due? That deadline, given, expires tomorrow. So tomorrow is the last day for Serbia to submit a report to the Council of Europe, or GREC, and it is obvious that this report will not be sent in time because we are only today discussing some laws concerning these recommendations, such as the Law on lobbying. In May of this year, the body wrote in the report that Serbia was back in the fight against corruption. So you water and cultivate corruption. When you came to power, you came to the wings of a false fight against corruption, that you would root out corruption, that you would cleanse the state of all those who have sinned about it. What happened in practice? It has happened in practice that you have developed corruption, that you have upgraded and that you have brought the state into direct contact with the mafia and organised crime, and that's what the whole world is talking about, and that's what Europe is talking about. I also ask the question – what did the Co-ordination Body established by the Prime Minister, saying it would apply all the recommendations of GREC? Who's going to be held accountable because it wasn't done? Will the prime minister be responsible for preventing her from visiting the "Exit", SNS's birthday, political stands and conventions, instead of implementing measures and fighting corruption in Serbia? Of course, fighting corruption and strengthening institutions is not something that has been the priority of this government, and certainly not of this Assembly, because it is an obstacle for us here to talk about bats, bar popcorn, yellow sea gnomes, but rather to talk about laws that concern the introduction of order into this country. That's why Serbia is getting more and more on the blacklists. Among other things, one of these recommendations is that since 2015, gentlemen of the pink coalition, you have set up 917 V.D. The director of public enterprises across Serbia, 917, without competition, is solely political and party membership, not doing their job properly, but listening to your employers and thus developing corruption and deepening the corruption system in the state of Serbia. Also, some of the recommendations made by GREC are also to take measures to improve the transparency of the parliamentary process, and you failed to do so, setting precise deadlines for the submission of amendments and using the emergency procedure as an exception, not as rules. The 2015 recommendations included strengthening the independence of the role of the VSS, the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as the application of procedures for selecting judges, the president of courts and prosecutors. So, in addition to being on the FATF blacklist, we are now on the Council of Europe's blacklist on the fight against corruption, and the truth is that Serbia is increasingly on the blacklists of world organisations, and that in Serbia, via Pinka and other regimeal media and tabloids, it turns it into a pink color. So the black lists on which Serbia is located in Serbia are becoming pink.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47868	Jovan Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47869	Thank you. All the questions I've asked so far, which I'm going to ask today, and I believe what I'm going to ask in the future, are actually a key question – where does this ship sail? Where does our ship that has fewer and fewer passengers, whose passengers are getting older and on which the crew is growing, most of them trained and incompetent? In particular, I am asking the Prime Minister – is the EU still a strategic goal of the government, as pointed out at the very beginning of its exposé or is it a mere carrot, as the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic said a few days ago? In fact, he said a few days ago that we would not give education, the Constitution and Kosovo to the European carrot. These words remind the SPS slogan "Serbia will not bend" from 1990, as well as Branko Kostic's words, to inform the younger, and to remind the older, acting head of the SFRJ presidency from the early 1990s, that if we need to eat roots, we will. The government to which Mr Dacic belonged was unfounded, and the consequences were catastrophic – war, sanctions, huge victims, the country's collapse, going abroad to a large number of young people, and today we pay a high price for that devastating policy. By the way, this European carrot has grown quite a bit over the past 15 years and it looks like this. The European Union is the main investor in Serbia with a stake greater than the net foreign investment, the value of these investments in the last 15-years is more than 15 billion euros. In addition, 2/3 of our exports are realised in the EU. The same EU will, for example, take over the financing of a 1.5m-euro science and technology park in Belgrade, which is extremely important for our country's development, because without research, innovation has no real progress. As can be seen from this data, the EU gives us much more than carrots, many families in Serbia give three meals a day and more than that. The carrot is also a destination for the largest number of those who leave the country due to the prosperity they have brought them, both this one and the previous authorities. These people who are leaving, who are the unrarely most talented, the most entrepreneurial, those who should be dragging the country forward, feel in Serbia as if in that tunnel that was set on the Obilic Wreath in Belgrade last week -- is not going anywhere, and it is filled with colorful lights that are unsuccessfully trying to cover up the dreary reality. And this feeling confirms every new report on the state of affairs in Serbia that publish prominent foreign organisations, such as the annual reports "Fridom House" – Freedom in the world, or Barometer of Freedom, "Fridrich Naumen" Foundation, according to which Serbia, year after year, is turning back, especially in areas of the rule of law, freedom of the media, as well as fair and free elections. A special weight among these assessments of the situation in Serbia is the GREKA, a group of countries to fight corruption in the Council of Europe, that our country has gone back in the fight against corruption, because of the 13 recommendations it has received, seven have been partially fulfilled, and six are not at all. The government is now expected to send supplemental material by tomorrow, October 31st. Responding to these demands, the Prime Minister said she believes Serbia will. The prime minister is not to believe, but to do everything possible to ensure that these international obligations are met. If that doesn't happen, someone should take responsibility. Speaking of responsibility, will I repeat Minister Mihajlovic's question – when will someone finally be responsible for the numerous gaps in the portfolio for which she is responsible? I only mention some: the collapse of the supporting wall in the Grdelička ravine, cracks on the overpass near Cačka, constant delays in works, etc. For her, nearly six and a half years later, the culprits were always somewhere else in power, and especially those who had previously ruled, as well as journalists who, as she said yesterday, dared to drum up the site and bare the truth that her so-called order to keep working on the highway from Ub to Lykovec, which, scandalously, had to be rebuilt for 24 hours. Instead of all that guilt transfer, someone should finally answer, and if it's not anyone whose work she's responsible for, then it would be correct to take responsibility for herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47870	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47871	Thank you, President. My question concerns the day before yesterday's election in the municipality of Kula, since I am the only MP from that municipality. I ask you, President Gojkovic, and Prime Minister Brnabic. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 192 determines the supervision of the municipality's work. This article provides that the Government can, under certain conditions and certain laws, disband the congregation of the municipalities, etc., and I am interested in why the congregation of the municipality of Kula, which is the reason for the disbanding of the congregation of the municipality of Kula, was so quickly disbanded and why elections in the municipality of Kula were called? Also, the same article provides that the government appoints a provisional body. The temporary authority in the municipality of Kula is appointed. The SO Tower was reportedly disbanded for the reason that the municipality's president, Milojic, resigned, but is now president of the provisional body. I'm interested in how, if the Assembly is already under quotes -- it fell, because of Milojic, the president of the Assembly, why is he now appointed president of the provisional body? In that same article, 192, it is predicted that, if a provisional body is already appointed, there must be also members of national minorities, or members of national minorities, if they were already in that assembly. So there are no members of the Russian party's board members in this temporary body, and there are no committee members from the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. I wonder why the Constitution was broken. That's one question that concerns those elections in The Tower. The second issue concerns elections for national councils, which are on Sunday (November 4th). They're going through villages calling for a vote on all the wrong addresses. This happened in 2014. So people get calls to all the other addresses they don't even live on, so I'm curious why it's happening again? We have appealed through the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and in all ways that it will never happen again, but it repeats itself again. I am also interested in how Minister Ruzic, and I ask him this question, how he thinks to protect the data when those calls are shared by members of the Serbian Progressive Party, by party people. So they have access to these addresses, they have access to people who are listed in special ballots. Why isn't that data, in some way, protected? I'm also interested, it's a question for election committees, lists don't have the right to determine their own people as observers, because permanent committees and election committees have been appointed by local self-government, of course, from their members, their party, or the ruling coalition. All list holders and all lists have the right to monitors, but only in an extended composition, so I just think it's counter-constitutional, how can members of the list pay people in an extended composition? I think irregularity already exists around that call sharing and around the polling stations, the election boards. One question I also ask the Minister of Culture and Information, Vladan Vukosavljevic. I ask him why the public service of RTS doesn't even follow the elections for national councils. I have so far, and the elections have been called in mid-August, and I have not seen any information on elections for national councils in most languages or the language of the national minority at the Public Service. True, Minister Ruzic gave an interview at the beginning, an interview, to discuss the elections, to call for entry into a special voter's list. But since August, the public service has not informed at all about the elections for national councils, so I wonder why the Public Service is not doing it? Does it not feel that members of national minorities do not pay taxes or simply do not deserve to be informed about them, and the majority people to hear about what their neighbours, what members of national minorities are struggling with, and does the Republic of Serbia think that it is eliminating multiculturalism?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47872	Thank you. The word is Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47873	I thank the chairman. My first question is for you, Maja Gojkovic, for President Aleksandar Vukic and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and concerns, of course, the elections set out in the Lucans, Kula, Doljevac and Kladova. In fact, is it true that there was no crisis in Doljevac, Kladova and Coola, but that there was an absolute majority of SNS there, that there was no local media and that it was very easy to do a reality show that you're doing at the level of the entire state? Having an absolute majority gives you the right to play with people and people's money. So, I want an exact report on what's the reason for the new election? When legal congregations in Kladovo, Doljevac and Kula were disbanded and a temporary organ was introduced in those places? Is everything done by law? The second question concerns Bear. I also appoint it to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Minister of Energy and the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. Is it true that there are continued research of mine wealth and that a representative of the Danube minerals company has announced that the minerals there are even over, I will read – directly, so over 547 million tons of ore? The research manager, Mr. Phil Hawks, was delighted to say how many ore is there, and my question is, in what way is the state going to protect this treasure of ours, or is it all part of a scam with a nonexistent presyve valley, with a plan to change ours for ours and with some kind of demarcation plan. So why is the bear classified in that group with Presevo and Bujanovac, from whom is it even 100 kilometers away? Which is why so far no one has responded to the fact that the bear people are leaving, which has over 7,000 people on the voters' list who don't live here but are actually with KIM and even from Albania. What I am particularly interested in, which is why administration chief Svetlana Todorovic, from Medvedje, of course, is forcing employees in the municipality to learn Albanian? I have a warrant, which she sent to the municipality's employees, telling them they are obliged to learn Albanian. I wonder if the Albanian population there must speak an official language that is in use, i.e. Serbian language, or is this just some preparation for your plans to simply give in to Albanians? A special question for the president of the Municipality of Medvedje, Nebojsa Arsic, and I ask the authorities to investigate that he is persecuting the President of the Municipalityal Administration of Dverje in Medvedja, Radje Kulic, asks his employer to fire him in every way and verbally and in other ways he commits violence against the representative of Dvora in Medvedja? The next question is the Minister of Health. Since you have already answered me once that no one is keeping track of how many specialists have left Serbia, have you perhaps started to take care of how many doctors and nurses have quit in the state service and how many have gone abroad? In the end, I ask the question of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, is it true that in Svilinco you plan to settle more than 3,000 migrant families and are you aware of how huge a number for such a small municipality, unfortunately, such examples of the planned settlement of migrants... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47874	Thanks, time. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47875	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted, usually here, to ask questions, there are fewer echoes, or answers, so I wanted to commend the diameter of the MUP, which gave one quite exhaustive answer, and not only that, of course, many other ministries, or at least most, give answers more or less correct. Answer the question about the visa regime with Iran. The ministry, of course, washed its hands a little bit, but they are probably right, saying on the one hand that the decision to introduce the visa regime is generally in the hands of the foreign ministry, that the approximation of the EU dictates, among other things and visa policy towards third countries, and that Iran can hardly come into consideration then, and they said that they have been working within the limits of their competences to prevent some of the harmful consequences of this, this relatively large number of Islamic republic citizens who have arrived, above all, to aircraft to the airport "Nikola Tesla" and moved on, not as tourists, but as migrants. Anyway, I say, it's a relatively positive practice, I mean answers, which aren't just routine. Unfortunately, there are institutions that are much weaker or not answering questions at all, even when they are very precise and well-intentioned. In any case, my question, with this commendation, goes to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Defence, the President of the Republic and the KIM Office, if anything else exists, and to its president, as regards the formation of Kosovo's armed forces. In our public, it is inadmissiblely quiet, inadmissible past news, almost undetected in the sea of these, more or less false affairs, or which tend to rise in order to cloud the essence and real problems, therefore, passed somehow semi-observed news of the formation of Kosovo armed forces, i.e. that their security forces of the KSF, are transformed and transformed into an army of Kosovo and the armed forces of Kosovo. It only looks like a thing called, so it doesn't matter what they're called. But it's not like that. The matter is also strategically important, politically relevant, of course and securely sensitive. That's why I'm saying, I'm also asking the Ministry of Defence, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, what exactly is being done, means not a statement for the newspaper, but what has been taken in particular, and these statements have not been very much, because of whether or not the demarcators have been sent to, and what measures have been taken? I remind you that the time for the citizens of the Serbian nationality to be at KIM, our countrymen, to force or force them to go to the parliamentary elections, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo, one of the main arguments for this, to get Serbs out in the Kosovo elections, was that they would then, in the institutions, in the Kosovo parliament, fight against forming an army of Kosovo, and prevent, veto, from being allowed. We heard all of this from Mr. Djuric, and from President Vukic, and from various other Serbian officials from the government, and now that it happened, when the transformation process started, suddenly sickened. So, all sorts of things, every statement by any opposition or any journalist or politician, she deserved and she got a strong and large-scale response from the top representatives of the regime, and this sort of thing that's being talked about in Europe, NATO takes a stand, the important factors are asking about it, they say about it, I say, our policy and the state are almost silent. Especially, and I end up with it, it's delicate, someone would say -- well, what difference does it have to do with what they're called, it's one of those same forces. But it is very important in the perspective and in the light of future, possible, integration of Kosovo's military into NATO structures, because NATO cannot integrate some police, militias, etc., but armed forces can. In that light, I think this change and transformation of Kosovo's security forces should be viewed primarily as a preparation for joining NATO and future Kosovo's military. After all, Eddie Rama welcomed it, a great friend of our president, and he said, "Blessed was the newly born army of the Republic of Kosovo. “ Well, if the president of Albania heard from him, he might have been able to reach out a little harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47876	Thank you. The word is Anna Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47877	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I refer my first question to the ministers of education, police and justice. Retaliation takes place over student Stefan Karanovic, who is a student of the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad. He discovered the kind of malfeasances that certain media transmitted, so that afterwards it would happen that the university refused to write him out of college and gave him the measure of suspension. Because of this measure, for 36 months and another year, Stefan cannot take over his papers and move to another university. Instead of having the prosecution and certain authorities take some steps to determine that they are correct, they are actually consecrating themselves to a student who, believing in his ideals, in his call, deals and investigates what he believes to be schooling and what he believes makes sense. My question is, why does the prosecution, which is why the government of the University of Novi Sad allow this and abuses the prosecution and university? I refer my second question to the minister of education, Mr. Sarcevic, and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Looks like we're getting a new Savamal in downtown New Belgrade. The Faculty of Drama Arts in Belgrade appears to have found itself on some path to progress, so it will be torn down. According to the allegations I received, as a formerly proud student of this university, one of the most important education institutions in our country, is that police are reportedly moving to the university's salary, otherwise at a very attractive location in New Belgrade. As soon as people hear the police need to move to college, probably because they already have existing singles, people automatically get a little scared and pull back. My question for Minister Stefanovic is – is it true that the MUP will move to that university and that students and teachers will be kicked out of this building? NJima reportedly offered Mr. Sarcevic to move to the territory, i.e. on a castle plot, a court complex on Topcider in two, three years at most. And the offer for all the universities of the University of Art, although at the already existing salary at which the Faculty of Drama Arts is located, is planned to accommodate all four of the Faculty of Arts in Belgrade. According to the knowledge I have, no college has yet to give up on this intention. Will Mr. Sarcevic do anything to save this building, given that it represents culturally good socialist architecture and that it is currently on display at the Museum of Modern Arts in New York as a representative example? 50 years ago, this place is also intended for art, even the boulevard on which the university is located and called the University of Art. In his time, 50 years ago, architect Aleksandar Stjepanović was awarded the most significant prize of architecture – the Battle Prize, for the design of this university. Is evicting colleges from their buildings, where they were over 50 years old, a threat to students and teachers, since artists have always been the ones who are very dangerous to every society, primarily because they think for themselves? Is evicting students and professors an account of the state with insubordination? I would also have to quote here Danil Kish, one of his extraordinary thoughts, which he says – when everyone is grunting with their pig hearts, the last one who will still look at human eyes and feel the human heart will be those who are not foreign experience in art. These are my fellow FDU students and our dedicated professors. John Chivning, a great American writer, said art is a triumph over chaos. I have no doubts that the artists in this fight will win in the end. So once again I ask my question to Mr Nebojsa Stafanovic, Minister of the Interior, is it true that the police plan to move into this building and actually take it away? Question to Minister Sarčević, can he provide any evidence that he will protect the building? Can it provide any concrete plans that allegedly exist on Topcider, that all colleges will be transferred to the castle complex and that there will be a building where students and teachers will be transferred? I strongly condemn such a move and demand on behalf of the students and the professor of the FDU not to touch theirs. You can't just go in there and crash somebody else's, and we don't need a new Savamal. We demand that this building be preserved as a representative example of architecture, as the building that gave the best of the art our country has and which has educated the best and best drama and film artists in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47878	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47879	Thank you, Chairman. My first question is to direct the minister of traffic to Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. It is a question I have already asked on two occasions in the Serbian Parliament. I received one of the answers that he left, practically, unsettled this question and the question to this day has not been resolved. In fact, it is two kilometers in the village of Lipik in the village of Tulari in Ub municipality. Children who go to elementary school every day walk to their school across the street which, unfortunately, is not paved. The school year started in September. Here, we're knocking on the door tomorrow November, so these kids are slowly entering the autumn, or winter period, by coming to school through the mud. I would like to ask Minister Mihajlovic, given that in answer to this question, when he will be paved this time for elementary school students from Lipik's village to her destination, she then referred me to the JP "Roads of Serbia", "Corridori of Serbia", and the president of the municipality, and she herself suggested in her answer that she would advocate that this time be settled, to ask how far it came with this question. If it's possible to hurry up a bit, since we're lucky now that the weather's knocked on the door, but it's gonna stop soon and it wouldn't be bad for these kids to find an adequate solution to come to school with dignity. I would like to ask you a second question, President of the Assembly. So, I'm curious about when the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, which was signed by 160,000 Serbian citizens, will come to the Assembly's agenda. So, it's simply amazing that this process of handing over the amendment and the addition of the laws is going on since May, practically now in October, it's just coming to the agenda, or there's a condition that it now comes to the agenda in October. I am now asking you, since it is during the autumn session, when will we have the opportunity to discuss this law, the amendment and the addition of this law, respecting the will of 160,000 citizens, and for which even the Ministry of Local Self-Government has assessed in its regular procedure that these signatures are valid? Thank you. The third question is to refer to the Minister of Health. It kind of accidentally adds to the Law on financial support for families with children, just because I’m in constant conversations with mothers who have a problem with the application of this law and the way changes were made in payments that have a permanent character and those who have a temporary character came to the next conclusion. Therefore, there are compensations that are one-off and that are paid to pregnant women and families, which are increased, so it is a sequential compensation of 100,000 dinars. Then in talking to these women, I asked them why they were unhappy with the money they were going to get, since it is still a large amount of money, and I get an almost identical answer on all sides, which is that the costs are extremely increased during the maintenance of the pregnancy. There is one regularity that appears in all these cases, which is that women are almost all directed to private offices or, on the other hand, are directed to state practices, and then from them are directed to some private examinations, analysis of the additional ones to be carried out. Among other things, this is one of the analyses that deals, one prenatal test I've heard about so far, almost every pregnant woman is sent to carry out a review in that sense and this prenatal test costs 600 euros. Unfortunately, this test cannot be done in state practice, but can only be done in private practice, by sending the sample abroad. So even in our country, you can't do that kind of analysis, you have to send it somewhere over. Now, if we have come to the fact that there are so many pregnant women who have the need to perform this genetic analysis, since it's a genetic check, so, if we've come to this, I'm asking the Republic Statistics Institute to send us an answer as much as this woman compared to, for example, a period of ten years ago, when I was giving birth to a child myself, so I don't remember that there were so many pregnant women referred to this kind of analysis, so what happened in Serbia for the last ten years that we have so many analyses that we need to do, which are genetics. If there is a need for this, I would ask the Minister of Health to plan the next budget to make up for pregnant women, so that they may have the right to work on the cost of the Ministry of Health, or RFZO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47880	The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47881	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I ask the question of the Minister of Education to Mr Mladen Sarčević. The educational inspection found that the head of the SNS Parliament Club Mr. Martinovic and SNS Deputy Chief Mr. Orlic were illegally employed at the High School of Medicine in Ćupria. Labour contracts are illegal and the inspection has ordered the school to terminate these labor contracts. These contracts are not to be broken, but Mr Martinović and Mr Orlic, as senior officials and members of the SNS presidency, are in the educational plan for 2018/19. A year. First of all, Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Orlic first denied being employed, but reported receiving 60,000 dinars to the Anti-Corruption Agency. But not only did they report that they received the money last month, but they reported that they had received the money several months earlier. It is quite surprising that the Ministry of Education, or an educational inspection, cannot resolve the issue of illegal labour contracts acquired by SNS officials at the High School of Medicine in Ćupria. What's also worrying is that the two of them together have reported 11 receipts. The issue for the Anti-Corruption Agency – how many more receipts do Mr Martinovic and Mr Orlic have that have not been reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency? How many of these salaries do the highest SNS officials who are representatives of this party in this House, who are the heads of this parliamentary majority and the ruling majority? This is important for the simple reason that citizens need to know how much pay is enough to support all needs of the SNS summit. Meanwhile, for the last year and a half, eight doctors were fired, eight women from the High School of Medicine in Turkey. NJima did not extend the work contract, one contract was terminated after returning from maternity leave. What's very important is that we know what kind of society we live in, where the SNS top participates on one side and allows women, doctors who have graduated from medical school, which lasts six years, some have completed specialization, some have completed doctoral studies, some are already in Germany today, that on their quota and in their accident SNS officials are employed. What will the Minister of Education do about it? Will Mr. Sarcevic succeed in breaking contracts with the Educational Inspectorate at that school, Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic, because the conclusion of the inspection is that not only there are no conditions but there are no competitions for the places where they are admitted. Today we have eight women without a job in Serbia. We have eight families without receiving, and on the other hand, there are 11, only two from SNS. The Anti-Corruption Agency justifiably doubts that these are not all receipts and that these are not all salaries and this is also a question for the Anti-Corruption Agency, how much pay is it that Mr. Martinović and Mr. Orlic and the other 11 SNS officials who have been legally admitted to surrender at this school?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47882	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from Davidovic to Groovam to Micunovic, Djindjic, Nikola Milosevic, to Balša Bozovic, is that normal? That's my first question. Also, the issue about the former regime's party, against which I have nothing, called DS, but it's still called DS, my question is about corruption, and from which money does Balsa Bozovic buy a wardrobe that costs several thousand euros in the most expensive buttocks in London? So, if I had such an expensive wardrobe, I'd keep it in the safe, I wouldn't wear it on myself, because it'd put it in the safe, because it's a huge fortune, it costs, its piece of clothing costs a couple of wagons of wheat, and that's why I ask the Ministry of Finance, tax authorities, where does Balshi Bozovic get the money so he can buy an expensive wardrobe and in one plane flight, to London's boutiques, exclusive to spend 20,000 euros? Another question for the same organs, where does Balshi Bozovic get money to fly in the winter when he is due to fly, for 30,000 euros in Maldives? Since his only income is, and this issue is for the Anti-Corruption Agency, that his only income is from here. So it's almost clear to all of us that this money comes from the previous robbery of workers when firing, selling factories, etc. My next question about Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the Wolf, will finally be confirmed by the figures, the day, the month and the hour when Vuk Jeremic received hundreds of thousands of euros from the cataract embassy, from the Muslim brothers, and how much money he had received from Hong Kong companies related to Patrick Hu and the team he worked with, and probably also traded arms. I'm interested in when the data will be released since I asked this question more than a year ago and I never got a complete answer because it's supposed to be a bank secret. So I want to know, when, as long as and at what time and at what time the Vuk Jeremic called the Wolf, the descendant, received millions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of euros from the Qatar Embassy and the Hong Kong firms. With that in mind, I also want to know if it is true that Vuk Jeremic transferred $650,000 from his consulting firm, i.e. to the City Bank for a TV editor of the Republic of Serbia, RTS? I want the right answers. I would also like to ask what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do and whether it is true that Dragan Gilas is an ally of Bosko Obradovic at the US Embassy complained of Russian influence and presented himself as a great fighter against Russian influence in the Republic of Serbia and as an opponent of then-Administer Konuzin. So, I want an answer to the question, what will the government do about it, because it can disrupt our friendly relations with Russia. My question for Bosko Obradovic, what is he doing in that society that is fighting against Russian influence. Dragan Djilas said that he and Bosko Obradovic, like Stalin and Cerčil, look more like Ljotic and Hitler to me, and I want to know about this, how much Mladjan Djordjevic, the right hand of Dragan Djilas, former adviser Boris Tadic, transferred in 2012 to a bag of Dvorim to take opposition votes and to prevent changes in 2012? I also want to know how much money they got from Brian Martin from the US Embassy to change course and from a family Orthodox organization become an anti-Serbian organization? How many times have they met and the security authorities told me, how many times have they met and how much money has the US Embassy or American partners sent to an organization called the Serbian Dvori, and in fact become an anti-Serbian Dvori? Also, I want to know, how much money did Marija Janjusevic receive for the organisation "My Indjija" which was registered at her address by 2012 from the president of the municipality of Goran Jesic to also prevent changes in government in India? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47884	The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47885	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, using his right to Article 287. Today's Rules of Procedure would ask the Minister of State and Local Self-Government. First of all, I would like to commend the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government for everything that has been done so far in the field of digitalisation of registers, which has been initiated by the adoption of the General Administrative Procedure Act in 2016. Recently, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government announced a new Law on the Central Population Register, which should arrive in front of MPs as soon as possible. As announced, the plan is to put it to the vote by the end of this year, i.e. we hope to vote this Law on the Central Population Register in order to start already in 2019 with the implementation of this law, for which the Office for IT and Electronic Administration has already established the necessary hardware infrastructure. Namely, the Central Population Register will represent a specific database, and by joining all data into one database authorised officials will be able to help citizens by official duty by obtaining data for services to citizens from as many as 11 records, which will make all procedures on counters much simpler and more efficient and, of course, much cheaper. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, will the Central Population Register be able to join citizens or only authorised officials? What kind of officers are they gonna be? Also, I'm interested in how the recently formed Central Register of Parent Books will be involved compared to this Central Population Register? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47886	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47887	Dear Vice President, I ask the question of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia – are there elements of the crime in the media attacks against the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic? The honourable MPs, from minute to minute, from hour to hour, day to day the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are witnesses of tenent, malicious, untrue media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, his family and his closest associates. These media attacks are the work of various tycoon-mafian criminal and political groups and individuals, whether domestic or foreign. In these media attacks, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, was called a "dictator" surrounded by criminals, then controlled and censored the media, that he stole the elections, that he was incompetent, followed by the criminalisation of his closest associates, friends, best friends and family members, and ultimately the charges of national treason, of course not true. The media attacks included the presidents of political parties, some sitting here in the High House, the Alliance for the Second Robbery of Serbia and individuals such as Velimir Ilic, Olja Bećković, Theophil Pančić, Matija Bećković, Amfilohije Radović, Goran Marković, Slavisa Lekić, Zoran Ivosevic, Gordana Suša, Dusan Teodorović, Borka Pavićić, Tsvetin Milivojević, Božo Prelevic, Milos Vasic and others through the media "Vreme", "NIN", "BIRN", "Vesti", "Tabloid", "B 92", "Blic", "Kur", "Rado Free Europe" and others. These people, respected Serbian citizens, from 2004 to 2012, were mostly praised by the government at the time when the country was destroyed by robbery privatisation and brought to the brink. I guess that's when they got cute. To be clear, Serbia is a democratic country in which the criticism of authorities is even desirable, but gentlemen between criticism and media attacks there is a fundamentally insurmountable difference. Media criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, which is why it is socially useful and even medicinal. However, certain individuals, representatives of political parties, employees of certain tabloids, some NGOs and some on-call analytical and professional charlatans, lies about the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic and his family and associates, poison the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the limit. Serbia guarantees freedom of expression and criticism of the authorities, but gentlemen, I underline, it is worth it in the opposite direction of the president of the state has the right to demand an argument, and you gentlemen would deny it. Now, that's not democracy. All we can remember is a lie that the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, insulted women during a tour of the Turkish factory in the Kingdom. It's a unique case in the world that you didn't criticize anyone and criticize someone for something he didn't say. These are serious media attacks. The latest media attacks on Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, Dr. Vlado Orlic and Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic have exceeded every measure. We have also heard today from a naked pirate from Maldives, that the Law on Higher Education does not know and unargumentedly criticises distinguished colleagues. Never in the last 50 years has one president been attacked more than Alexander Vukic has. And gentlemen, no president has ever had better results in the last 50 years for Serbian and Serbian citizens. The media attacks on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's attack on Serbia's state to get up from a penitentiary knee, the only culprit to which the former regime's party threw them and here they are reunited with the alliance for the second robbery of Serbia, were first robbed during DOS led by Dragan Djilas, called the Djiki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the world's largest criminal gang and Sasa Jankovic and other members of the alliance for Serbia's second robbery.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47888	Thank you. Is anyone else answering the question? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that it has not been reported that today's session will not be attended by Vice President Djordje Milicevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we'll determine the quorum in the O.R. I find that the sittings are attended by 129 MPs. I put to the vote the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 17th, 19th, 20th, 23rd and 24th July of this year. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. First, we plead upon an emergency procedure. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on traffic safety on the roads. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, no one, with abstentions, is available. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act on an urgent procedure. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on detective activity. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I put to the vote the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and on managing emergency situations. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting to vote the draft law supplementing the Fire Protection Act. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period, proposed by Parliament to Natasa Vuckovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, proposed by MEP Maja Vidinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, proposed by MEP Maja Vidinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of a Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin, Djevdet Ajaza Turkey, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one sender. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one sender. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, proposed by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was proposed by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put the motion by Parliamentarian Goran Ciric to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the NBS Act, which was proposed by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one MP of the people. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am voting on the motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President, which was proposed by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the proposal for a discharge of Vjerica Radeta from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was proposed by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, proposed by Parliament of People's Parliament Vesna Marjanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on textbooks, proposed by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. I conclude the vote and declare: one MP voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in connection with the liquidation procedure "Such Insurance", MP Veroljub Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one in the state, for two, against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the VAT law, MP Dejan Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote Parliament's proposal to supplement the agenda – Proposal for a law on the completion of the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, proposed by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on the capital, proposed by MP Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, proposed by MP Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code, proposed by MP Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, proposed by Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Labour Act, proposed by MP Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for two MPs of the people. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit, for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I conclude the vote and declare: for - two MPs, I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia, proposed by MP Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one MP of the people. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Double Education Act, proposed by MEP Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one MP of the people. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road traffic, proposed by Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote The proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and the fact of responsibility of the persons who have committed the destruction of those facilities, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of suspected SNS transactions, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections and the 2017 presidential elections, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Škoda” MUP, proposed by Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities regarding the overpriced reconstruction of Slavi Square and the construction of the music fountain, proposed by Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, in order to determine the fact that the defence minister in the Serbian government, Mr Alexander Vulin, has acquired a 107m-square-euro apartment in Belgrade, worth 244,620 euros. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. This proposal was not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the investment investment investment project in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. No proposal accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Belgrade in connection with the signing of an agreement on the construction of a burning plant at a dump in Vinca. Finalizing vote: for -one. No proposal accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts relating to the trafficking of human organs in KIM territory, so-called "Yellow House", proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item, which I am putting to the vote – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the cruise factory "IMMK 14 October". I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material and immaterial flood damage on Serbia's territory in 2014, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the privatisation of the PKK, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the US Embassy and the Federal Republic of Germany, which were attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as the responsibility of both former and current state-run actors, who were proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. No proposal accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of the China company Meita in Baric, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. This proposal was not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract for the "Belša Bozovic" project, proposed by Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the contract between the Republic of Serbia and the company "Al Raw International Investment", proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. No proposal accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for falsely showing the situation in relation to the level of aflatoxin in milk and corn, which caused major material and immaterial damage to the Republic of Serbia in 2013, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I'm closing the vote, one MP voted for it. No proposal accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the Serbian government and Etihad Ervejz concerning the establishment of an air traffic company, Er Serbia, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. This proposal was not accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption under the "Smederevo Zelezare" 2015, which resulted in a loss of around 150m euros per year, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. Finalising vote: for – one. This proposal was not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state-level officials in the Republic of Serbia, proposed by Balsa Bozovic. Finalising vote: for – one. This proposal was not accepted. I put to the vote The proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances of the way the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorvanka Tabaković, acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad, which on 30 November 2012, took over the company Telecom Serbia for the remaining debt to mention an apartment of 77,700 euros. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on the financing of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which was proposed by MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad in connection with the privatisation of ATP Vojvodina and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, proposed by Aleksandra Jerkov. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote a bill amending the Code of Criminal Code, which was proposed by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was proposed by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was proposed by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, proposed by Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of the law on higher education, proposed by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks, which was proposed by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote: for – one, and this proposal is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives, proposed by Gordana Komic. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a declaration condemning the communist crimes committed after World War II, proposed by MP Zika Gojkovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47889	I'm just sorry, I didn't hear what law you said after I suggested two?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47890	A declaration of condemnation of communist crimes committed after World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47891	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Movement for the Renewal of the Kingdom of Serbia believes that the time has matured to finally pass a law on the condemnation of communist crimes that was committed after World War II. It is known to all of us that the Serbian Government Commission for the discovery of secret tombs found that at the end of 1944, more specifically, after 12 September 1944, and the first half of 1945, without any trial or with mounted trials, more than 60,000 Serbian citizens were killed, only because they were for the king or were not for the current power. This number must be multiple, but the commission only came to this data, unfortunately. That commission doesn't work anymore, I don't know why, but she managed to get these impressive, big figures based on the smudged data that was obtained from an archive that could have been picked up. For the terrible crimes of the communist government against its own people, committed in Serbia after the release of 1944, no one answered today. The descendants of those who died at that time, who were brutally killed, who still today feel like second-class citizens, insist on finding criminals and, if nothing else, at least the earthly remains of their families, their ancestors, are buried in a dignified manner and finally told the people the truth. Serbia, our Serbia, simply has no progress until justice is satisfied and the guilty are marked, and as I have already said, the innocent are not buried innocently and until we bow down to their shadows and ask forgiveness for what was done after World War II. And there's been systemic evil done, something that hasn't been done in any of the post-Communist countries, at least when it comes to the numbers of those people who have been killed. Unfortunately, there are people whose tragedy and what happened in Serbia isn't so important and they don't listen to what I'm talking about... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47892	Thank you. Time. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for four messengers, against none, self-abstained, none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Žika Gojkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law on local elections. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47893	This is the new Bill on Local Elections, which I submitted in February of the month, simply provoked by a campaign for the Belgrade elections, but also by many other elections we have in the last 18 years, where individual organisations, coalitions, parties and various associations deceive citizens in the most brutal way and thus from election to election. The president himself said that there is enough hiding people behind those people who are high-quality and who have left a mark when it comes to political work and any other quality work that they can be proud of, and that there are not a small number of people who are just hiding behind such high-quality people. One of the delusions that was in the last local elections, which may have somehow been the most banal and invited me to this bill, is that we had a sportsman who advertised himself most in the campaign, and he hid the fact that behind him are his members of the rope and wider family. It's these people who need to solve problems in their environments where they come from. The fundamental change that the new law achieves is that the mayors and presidents of municipalities, as well as two-thirds of the councils, are elected directly, by name and last name, and not as it has been the case so far, where we have come from political arrangements and very often rotting compromises to a solution, which has completely offended the pre-election process itself. The movement to restore the Kingdom of Serbia that I represent will never only talk about problems without offering solutions to these problems. And what is most important is that it offers people, because people solve problems. I think it's very important to say that people should be appreciated for what they do and what the results show, and not for what they say, deeply tucked behind the leaders of their parties. The bill addresses several systemic problems that are key to making citizens' choices more direct in election campaigns. It is also important to say that the bill deals in detail with formal legal matter for better quality elections and confirms the view that the direct choice of public officials is in the spirit of democratic countries, whose political arrangement is more difficult for our country as well. I will conclude with only one sentence, which is that almost all political parties advocate decentralisation... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47894	I interrupt all MPs for three minutes. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—one, abstention—no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two Messengers, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. This proposal was not accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on gambling, proposed by Parliamentarian Marinika Tepic. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, proposed by Marinika Tepic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations, associations and prohibitions of the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and features, proposed by Marinika Tepic. Finalising vote: in – four. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Double Education Act, proposed by Branka Stamenkovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, proposed by Ana Stevanovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law to public media services, proposed by Ana Stevanovic. I'm closing the vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote The proposal for a decision on the education of the committee to determine the consequences of industrial pollution of water, air, land according to the health of the residents of the town of Pancheva, the municipality of Bor, Obrenovac, as well as the inhabitants of municipalities along the Veliki Bačka canal (Vrbas, Kula, Crvenka, Sivac) proposed by Goran Chabradi. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, proposed by MP Goran Chabradi. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to determine the adverse consequences of the construction of a mini hydropower plant in the areas of protected natural goods, proposed by Goran Chabradi. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, proposed by MP Goran Chabradi. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law proposed by MP Goran Chabradi. Finalising vote: in – two. This proposal was not accepted. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Social Protection Act, proposed by MP Goran Chabradi. I conclude the vote and I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances proposed by Goran Chabradi. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine facts related to the murder and political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who was proposed by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Cultural Goods, which was proposed by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System proposed by Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Finalising vote: in – four. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, which was proposed by LJupka Mihajlovska. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of pension cuts under the Law on the temporary way of determining pension payments, proposed by Vladimir Djuric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on the rights of fighters and families of the dead and missing fighters, proposed by MP Bozidar Delic. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a dramatic increase in violence against Serbs and the non-Albanian population in the northern AP KIM in the period from 2013 to today, proposed by MP Slavisa Ristic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find the proposal not accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, proposed by MP Zdravko Stankovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, proposed by MP Zdravko Stankovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, proposed by MP Goran Bogdanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax, proposed by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Finalising vote: for -two. I find the proposal not accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, proposed by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Finalising vote: for -two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly, proposed by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Finalising vote: in – four. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in the part of the city, known as Savamal on 25 April 2016. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47895	Thank you, Chairman. Two and a half years have passed since unidentified persons were left behind on the night the last parliamentary elections in Serbia were completed, with a heavy mechanism that destroyed a part of Belgrade called Savamal, using heavy machinery and depriveing freedom of several hours of citizens who happened there. In all this time, the state of Serbia has managed to find one culprit. The shift chief, who was on call that night at the MUP and who called the police to come and see what was going on, was not answered. He was punished, conditional, and that's all the state of Serbia has managed to do in the last two and a half years. It is clear that there have been a number of crimes that evening, from the criminal act of deprivement of freedom from unknown persons, the violation and destruction of private property, the endangerment of the security of the present citizens, the harassment of the public, and so on, and so on, all the topics that we are looking for for for almost two and a half years to form, should finally be answered. We should give answers and hear if the prosecution heard the president of the Republic, then the Prime Minister, who said he knew who was responsible for the collapse in Savamala that night, who was responsible for calling complete idiots because they were doing it in the dark, so that he would be asked, that he should do it in broad daylight. The only thing he didn't explain was whether it was supposed to be the same thing with masks and hoods or whether it was supposed to be done as appropriate to the rule of law with a solution from the competent state authority that it was only possible to bring down something in the rule of law. Without all these answers, Serbia will not be a legal state. As much as this government has avoided giving an answer to this topic, eventually they will have to give answers if we want Serbia to become a state of rule of law, a state in which citizens can feel protected from state authorities rather than live in stress and fear that what happened to them on 24 April 2015 can happen again at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47896	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic proposed the addition of the agenda to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments System of Public Sector Employees. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47897	Thank you. The law passed in the Assembly compromised the rights of public sector employees and did not lead to order and what was promised six and a half years ago, when the ruling majority took over Serbia's governance. At that time, it was said that the pay imbalance in the public sector would be corrected, that for the same job, regardless of what part of the public sector or state body you are working on, you will get the same salary. It's been announced several times. It's been announced by this law, but unfortunately it didn't happen. The pay grade hasn't functioned yet. What remains outside the definition of this law, outside the public sector are public enterprises, above all the National Bank of Serbia, the Public Media Service. What this law has allowed is to further politicise public sector employment. Today, business in the public sector is practically impossible to gain unless you are a member of some of the ruling parties. You can't make any progress in that job unless you're a member of the ruling party. The last phase we are now in is to discuss employment in the public sector and discuss the party bodies of ruling parties, but these are not discussions about improving the functioning of public institutions, the public sector, these are discussions about who has hired more of his relatives, friends, and then who has hired his mistress. These cases occur from Vranja, Nis, Jagodina, according to Vojvodina, in many municipalities and therefore we believe that it is necessary to amend the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, depolitize the public sector, reward those who work in the public sector for the work they do. Without their full engagement and knowledge, it is not possible for Serbia to carry out the necessary reforms, it is not possible for Serbia to modernise, it is not possible for Serbia to become part of the EU by the year 2025, which we heard was the government's task when it was elected just over a year ago. One of the first steps that this could happen is to change the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, and I call on you to put this bill on the agenda so that we can make further progress on Serbia's European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47898	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47899	Thank you, Chairman. The change in VAT we are proposing is a minimal change in which baby food should, instead of the general tax rate of 20%, be taxed at a special rate of 10%. This change would make the position of families with children, small children, who buy food for children and babies a little bit easier, but it would certainly be one sign that the state of Serbia wants to do something to change the protection of families with children. This country missed it by adopting the Financial Support Act with children, but I'll talk about it later. But this little change, we think, would be a positive example that the state wants to engage in the fight for new babies and new life in Serbia, and I am completely inadmissible from the government for not accepting this initiative that believes that this change would not necessarily lead to the cost of baby food, so that this change would only open up room for further manipulation. We have a situation that every year when the budget is adopted, a number of products are taxed at this lower rate and that list of products taxed at a lower rate is becoming longer and longer year-on-year, with the intention that the government will show that it is leading policy in certain areas and that it wants to help develop economic branches in a certain way. It is simply amazing that the state of Serbia does not want to involve itself more actively and to use everything it has as an opportunity to raise birth in Serbia and I call on you fellow MPs to tell the government that we are wrong, to put this bill on the agenda, to declare it and thus show that we are more responsible than the Serbian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47900	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the financial support of families with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47901	Thank you, Chairman. We proposed a law on financial support for families with children for almost three years, waiting for the government's proposal that came at the end of 2017, and then I said - as the government suggested, it better not have proposed it. In fact, a law that should be a basic mechanism for financial support to families with children, unfortunately, in the form in which it was adopted, in December of last year, is not. Right after that, we made a new law that should change the fundamental lack of legislation adopted by the government, which is seen, here, for several months, when it finally started from July 1st this year with the application of the Financial Support Act to families with children. First of all, it relates to the maternity leave fees for which the government has taken to account by calculating all the fees and earnings paid, on which the tax is charged in the net amount over the last 18 months, no matter how many there have been, and then the amount is divided by 18 and taken as a gross basis, which is then further reduced and additionally paid as a net amount within 12 months as long as women are on maternity leave. And, not only that, we unfortunately have today in changing this law even worse. We have a fact that after two, three months, women who have given birth cannot exercise this right. Those few months live without any income, even though they worked, earned something that this law certainly reduced them according to the previous law. It's the minister here without a portfolio last week and confessed, and she said that the fees will be paid as soon as possible. It is unacceptable for the state of Serbia to ensure the rights and care of the citizens of Serbia in this way. It is unacceptable that in a situation where half a million children today are threatened by poverty due to irresponsible government policy in the last six years, this mechanism, which the Law on financial support for the family with children, provides support to the state as a support to families through a child's supplement, through a parental supplement, is resolved in a completely inadequate manner. That's why I'm asking you to pass the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47902	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47903	Thank you, Chairman. This law, I think, has been trying to put more than a year and a half on the agenda. The essence of the law is that drinks that are artificially sweetened, are imposed on them by excise, as many countries in the world have done on the basis of recommendations from the World Health Organization, which declared an epidemic of obesity several years ago. An epidemic of obesity where today in Serbia obesity is doubled from 2.6% to 4.9% of children today in Serbia, while in adults, the number of obesity is 21% and the pre-fat is 35%. It is estimated that obesity is one of the main causes of diabetes and that in Serbia today more than 700,000 people suffer from diabetes and that the introduction of one of these excises would have several positive effects. The first is to reduce artificially sweetened drinks. This happened, for example, in Hungary where 20% is less than 2011 when this excise duty was introduced, reduced consumption of artificially sweetened drinks, to provide funding for projects that would allow education on the harmfulness of this type of drink, from the harmfulness of unhealthy nutrition, which today dominates on the daily menu of many families and which results in a large number of people living unhealthy lives, as a result of unhealthy nutrition. From there, there are numerous diseases that, of course, if we look at a clean economic state, cost much more than would be the effects of this measure. It is estimated that with this five dinar excise fee per litre each year, about five billion dinars would be made in the budget. This would be enough to provide a healthy daily meal, lunch in all primary schools, and certainly there would be money for good and quality programmes to help education and reduce obesity in Serbia. Without this, the fact is that the government adopted a programme to prevent obesity at the beginning of this year without the means to carry out activities in that programme and many other activities that have been abandoned because the money is gone, we will not be able to cope with this epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47904	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47905	Thank you, Chairman. This is a very small change that provides for the tax administration to make a clear amount of the tax charge, i.e. by the tax ruling issued by a citizen, a natural or legal person, as well as a lesson on the rights of this attitude. First of all, the idea was that in the delivery of a tax solution for a tax on property that is delivered to citizens at the beginning of the year with a new amount of tax, the tax solution should state what is the situation and whether the citizen has subscribed his tax in the previous period, or whether he has paid less, given the dynamics of paying taxes and the possibility of people sometimes forgetting to pay the property tax on time. The government said that this is not necessary in reason why it believes that the adoption of this law is not necessary, but I read how much yesterday the prime minister announces that in the process of digitalising Serbia, apparently, from the beginning of January of next year, it will be possible for citizens to gain insight into their decision on property tax, to see exactly what we are asking to put into law, and that is how much tax is paid, whether some amount is overpaid, whether it is paid less, not to accumulate interest, that it is not included then through enforcement, because we see how many Serbian citizens today have a problem with one institution that is necessary in each modern state to enable the effective implementation of justice, but unfortunately, it has become a mechanism for destruction, I must say, some families who do not know why they are in huge debts, and then through tax enforcers have remained almost without all property. We, as representatives of citizens in the Serbian Parliament, should take care of these things. We need to take care of what legal solutions we make. So I urge you once again to adopt this little amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration, in order to allow the government, in the end, what it intends to do on the 1st of January, by electronic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47906	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47907	Nearly three years have passed since the mockery of the SNS's promise, which came to power in the 2012 campaign, promised to lift the TV fee on the count. That tax, we waited two and a half years for her to be abolished from coming to the SNS authorities, so that a few months later, this tax would appear now under a different name, but in exactly the same manner of payment. It is charged with an electricity bill, but this time you have no option as until 2014, when that fee has been abolished, that you do not pay it, that you pay the amount for spent electricity, not to pay the amount and fees for radio-television. Now from this account, which you pay first, you reject and reroute to the public media service the amount of the tax, and then the rest goes towards paying your debt to Serbia's Elektro-distribution. The amendments to the laws adopted three years ago have practically prevented the release of these fees from people who have several electric numbers on their behalf, people who have multiple electric numbers in their household, primarily rural households, who, due to the dynamics of construction and work, have several electrical numbers, in auxiliary rooms, garages, stables, and on each of these electric numbers, citizens have to pay the amount of radio-television fees, regardless of whether they have a car, old stuff or an animal barn, and these animals have to pay taxes, although, of course, they do not watch television. Unfortunately, the point is they don't have much to look at on public media service programs. Public media service has long stopped fulfilling its legal function. Opening the subject of amending the Law on Public Media Services is what is necessary for this Assembly if we want to return objective information to Serbia, if we want to allow Serbian citizens to be properly and timely in getting acquainted with everything that is happening in Serbia. We invite you to put this law on the agenda, to open a debate on our proposal, just a taxi and a way of getting rid of taxes, but we must be absolutely certain about how public media services operate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47908	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 12. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on traffic safety on the roads. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47909	Thank you, Chairman. Today, the Law on Changes and Supplements of the Traffic Safety Act will be put on the agenda again, and this proposal is due to the amendment of March of this year when a number of other laws and other changes in this law have somehow gone without discussion and attention, a proposal by the promoter, which unfortunately adopted, to erase a protection zone of five metres from walking crossings in cities and inhabited cities. The five-metre zone exists and is not allowed to park and stop in order to increase the safety of pedestrians and is a completely unacceptable explanation and joy primarily for the city's administration in Belgrade, which has announced after the adoption of these changes that it will open up and create some 300 new parking spaces in Belgrade in this way and through the achievement of this change. We ask the question, how many, how many times has the safety of the people at the pedestrian crossings increased now that the vehicles are practically parked at the pedestrian crossings? So, are we as responsible people and fellow citizens going to be silent about this fact? Are we gonna watch and shut up when police cars park like this, malls at the walkway? Irregular parking. For this kind of parking, the spider should take the vehicle and charge the maximum penalty. Vehicles like this have been parked every day at a walking crossing 100 metres from the elementary school in Belgrade, every day. So, are we going to, I'm going to take the opportunity to ask Minister Stefanovic what he's going to do to make sure these things don't happen anymore? Every day the vehicles are parked in this way police, the spider doesn't apply them, they don't charge the fines, but it's not the point in punishment, nor in relation, the point is in the safety of the people in this particular case of children who use this walking crossing every day. I urge you to vote to put this item on the agenda, I urge you to vote on this amendment that we will give to the Traffic Safety Act on the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47910	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - ten MPs I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points - draft law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts of the circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the impact that the International Court of Justice had on it, and the responsibility of former Serbian President Boris Tadic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Boris Tadic, former president of the Republic of Serbia, a well-known man from the people who is the most banignant to have been asked as a scientist, asks as an expert whether chickens have been stressed in Serbia? His second famous statement to visit a peasant household, it was also benign – behold, a miracle, just by some providence last night before my visit to the host, the cow was damaged. If Tadica's a puppy, then my house is called a cow. So, it's the most banignant thing, and I don't mind that he apologized to all over the world and who he needed and who he didn't need, and he apologized multiple times just in case, thinking that the citizens of some other states should vote for him and provide him with a choice. In 2008, in order to restore his choice, i.e. to be re-elected president of the Republic of Serbia, he urged his people at the US Embassy to declare independence by Albanians on KIM so-called. The Kosovo states should postpone this until the second round of the 2008 elections, which happened. In his favour, both Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic were crying for the Americans to influence the Albanians what they did and the oath was given by Boris Tadic on 14 February 2008, and Albanians declared independence on February 17th 2008, and Boris Tadic fled heroically to Romania when the riots broke out. Also, the responsibility of Boris Tadic should be determined on his connection to the drug cartel, reminding you that during the time he stopped being a defence minister, when drugs were propped up according to statements by generals who made statements in Topcider, at the "Karas" facility, where soldiers Jakovljevic and Milovanovic were killed. There is strong doubt that Boris Tadic knew that the damaged narcotics sold there on the Serbian and EU market and while he was president of the Republic of Serbia were killed by two soldiers, so far under incredible and almost unknown circumstances, but after a statement by an officer, it was clearly found that the drug dealers had liquidated those two soldiers, and he was the parents of the dead soldiers, not knowing what it meant to lose money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47912	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs, and I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47913	Thank you, esteemed chairman. I propose this law on funding local self-government that has already repeatedly for one single reason, that is to try to convince you to do something you don't understand, which is greater decentralisation and independence of the local self-government unit. Your policy, which has been in place for six years now, is based on taking money from all and the same money, putting it in the government register, and then from that state register today Sinisa Mali, Ana Brnabić, Aleksandar Vucic, will share it the way they want it, without any system, without any rules, but simply as if it were their means. Therefore, we have a situation where, in one day 2016, the adoption of the law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government is taken to cities and municipalities of 4.8 billion dinars, and at this point Serbia is at the bottom of Europe by the amount of funds paid to units of local self-government. While the practice in Europe is over 30%, of the total revenues made in one EU country 30% return directly to local self-government units to decide what they will finance. In some Scandinavian countries, it's over 50%. In Serbia, the relationship between you and your government from year to year is getting smaller and smaller and we've reached 9%. So, of the total income, you pay 9% back to all cities and municipalities, or people whose money you take into the state register. And, of course, because of that we should not be surprised that in Vranje the hole is clothed with sand, while Gondola is being built in Belgrade, you should not be surprised that Zrenjanin doesn't have drinking water, but that's why "Belgrade on water" is being built, and you should not be surprised that in most cities and municipalities across Serbia, street lighting is being shut down at night, but in Belgrade we have a New Year's light in the middle of autumn, and this year we saw that we also have during the summer. So, because you take all the money from the citizens of Serbia, you take from the units of local self-government, and then you deploy it with that money, or you deploy it as you wish and as you think it will be the most politically profitable for you. You don't do this to improve the state, to improve institutions, the system, but to get through the campaign, through blackmail to those who are willing to kiss the hands of those who give money, that money and give it. And, so, let's just say, in one day of December 29th last year, without any criteria of 40m euros, you divided...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47914	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Final vote: -10. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47915	Thank you. This law aims to reduce the burden on earnings, i.e. what employers pay their workers, to reduce citizens' taxes on citizens' income. And the bottom line is we try to stimulate new jobs with this law, make business easier for businesses. Obviously, however, you will not support this law. I call on you to vote for this law too, because your President of the Republic has repeatedly announced over the past few years that such a law will be found in parliament. Well, you'd better listen to what I'm saying, maybe learn something, 'cause you obviously don't know what I'm talking about. So the direct consequence of not adopting one of these laws is that you have to falsify the truth every day, every month and every year. Well, that's how you tell Serbian citizens that unemployment has fallen to 10.11%, perhaps more than that, that probably in a year or two, if you continue to do this statistically, the data, Serbia will not have unemployed people. So we are the only country in which unemployment is reduced, and the number of employees is not increasing. That's all you can do in your pink Serbia. Also, the consequences of the failure to adopt such a law and state and in the economy of Serbia and the situation that you want to present pink. And this is that today Serbia has some kind of growth, that it has some kind of surplus. That's what citizens know best when they look in their pockets, when they look in their refrigerators. You have now reached out to another amazing thing, which is forging data on the revenues of the Republic of Serbia to statistically represent that the lower level of public debt compared to GDP than it was, say, a year or two ago. But you can't deny the fact that you've owed 10 billion to Serbia since you came to power and every citizen of Serbia. For 10 billion euros. Public debt was 14.7 billion in 2012, today is 24.3 billion. And there's no dilemma. These are unquestionable facts, but you do not have the courage to answer the citizens and tell the truth, because you have to deceive them, to represent prosperity through statistics and various things in Serbia. That well-being is best felt both by the businessmen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because in six years you have povertyed the people of Serbia. And if you continue with that policy... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47916	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for -11. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the municipality of Trstenik, Miroslav Aleksic, and a fund for improving the resources of citizens. Does the MP want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47917	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I love that Mr. Alexic is currently advertising my wife, otherwise she's a beautiful woman. But I am also grateful to Blic and Nin for the support they provide my little ones. I'd be worried if they didn't. But Mr. Alexic made one mistake. When Vuk Jeremic's wife, who received 650 euros at the expense of the City Bank, said something against her, she for all $650,000, excuse me, if I said the euro, was in the City Bank in New York, so she organised a press conference for all $650,000. And, at that time, she was crying. And look at the miracles, the one who was the wife of an opposition leader, was also the editor of RTS TV. That's how we choke the media, that's how much freedom the media is, and Mr. Alexic's wife works as an editor in TV Tristenik, although according to the teacher's profession, she works in the public sector. I avoid mentioning family relations if family members don't work in the public sector, which in this case probably is the case. So she cried, and on that occasion she threw out all the fellow journalists she thought were not worthy of listening to such a large journalistic gromada, who, behold, married to Vuk Jeremic, you understand, earned millions of dollars. As for Mr. Aleksic, he was through Dinkic and his father-in-law, I have to mention, because he was head of the NSZ in Tristenik, he got about 50 million dinars for the Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources and it was money intended for, say, cutting grass in February of the month, for the collection of leaves, etc., but no activist was found who dealt with it. The contract he signed was about 50m euros, money was raised in cash, so thanks to these malfeasances, he came out richer by several hundred thousand euros and managed to join various parties, including Boris Tadic, so I don't know which party he was all up to, but he seemed to have cashed his own fat. Also, building a wild, construction of a pipeline in Triestenik, where he allowed his friend without a construction permit to build a pipeline, and then set up a supply competition, where only those who have a pipeline can supply municipal institutions with gas and thus enrich themselves and their neighbor. Also, the JKP "Počevina" has one employee, a rural enterprise, i.e. him and a broken truck, is also an affair in which he left his tracks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47918	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – two, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47919	I thank the chairman. I voted in favour of this proposal by Mr. Risticevic to discuss me, so I would invite other colleagues from the post to vote once for the proposal, so that we can discuss who did what, not to listen to such lies, fiction and vomit anymore, from a man who holds moral sermons.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47920	Please explain your proposal. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47921	And his wife has been charged with embezzlement for two million euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47922	Otherwise, I'd have to give replicas to everyone. Ambassador, please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47923	And you might want to warn him, too, because he's been talking about something that's not on the agenda all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47924	Ambassador, please, I didn't warn you either when you delivered certain speculation, I didn't mention any MPs. Be equally sensitive, so support someone else's criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47925	I submitted a request for the study committee's education in order to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. So, by adopting a set of media laws, which adopted this power, darkness arose in Serbia. Today in Serbia, citizens cannot come to the truth because their budget money is financed by pro-government regime media and tabloids, which aim to deceive Serbian citizens, lead them astray and that the state of Serbia is different than it really is. It's also a violation of the Constitution, and a violation of the law, but it's your authority because you're used to respecting neither institutions nor laws nor the Constitution. You think you're God-given, that you can do whatever you want in the state of Serbia. So the project financing of the media, which you have introduced by adopting a set of media laws, is the most ordinary corrupt mechanism for financing all those media that are close to the authorities. In addition to funding local and regional media, which they bought and privatised several of your party officials or people close to the SNS in order to prohibit any critical voice from being heard from the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is not foreign to you that you direct money from the budget to your televisions, so “Pinku” gave 10m euros from the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance. So, I'd just like one of you experts to explain to me what the Pink Company has exported by 10m euros from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? So I'm looking for a survey board and I'm asking for the purpose of determining whether Serbia should have organised reality programs in this way, where some participants are pulling out guns, where jokes at the expense of tragically injured Milice Rakic, where REM does not react when Oliver Ivanovic draws a target at the head, and the man has lost his life no one has come to terms with it. You should answer who ordered the video for Oliver Ivanovic, which was broadcast during the elections in Kosovo, who paid, who financed this "Pinku"? Of course, to answer and who are the owners, who are the real owners, who are the formal owners, how are budget money being spent? With me in Tristenik, 11 million every year from the budget, you give television owned by people close to the SNS and who are tasked only to promote power and not to allow anyone else to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47926	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated for the pre-election campaign. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this regard I received some time ago materials that were probably obtained by some other MPs. It is about the Electoral List of Dvora and it is about the abuse of funds intended for the campaign of political parties. By law, any funds not spent in the campaign should return to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's not done in this case. The political organisation of the Serbian Dvori, now with a very disputable name, has not returned the money to the Republika Srpska budget. Namely, they have established several entrepreneurial shops among their candidates, mostly in Borca, which were on Dvora's electoral lists and thus washed about 250,000 euros or 30 million funds from the election campaign for the shop's entrepreneurs. So that money, instead of returning to the state of Serbia, instead of serving, they say, for the old, sick, powerless, for social cases, ended up in their private pockets. Several of these companies are located in Borca and have interlinked faces. The money they were getting, for example, was five, six million dinars for electroradas. The money that was spent allegedly to repair the computer was about 7,200,000 dinars, and then questions are raised that are compositions, which are trains, cars, and how many cars were on those trains with computers that they were fixing during the election campaign? Some of the money ended up in the law offices, but when you look at who owns these corporate shops and when you look at the money being raised in cash, then you see that it was all persons who were on their election lists or it was about the committees of that political organization. The money was raised in cash, and what viewers should know is that enterprises are not subject to VAT until a certain limit and thus tax payments are avoided through fictitious, simulated jobs and once again, except that money is not returned to the budget, the damaged Republic of Serbia. So it's a political party that sells honesty here. It's about Mr. Gilas' ally. It is a political organisation that has in various ways obtained funds for the election campaign, but no doubt through these fictitious costs have committed a crime of money laundering. It is doubtless also that they have committed a tax evasion offence, and I am asking a question and I want a survey committee to be set up – what have the tax and other authorities done to establish these facts clearly, unequivocally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47928	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47929	Thank you, Chairman. I propose this law for almost two years. regarding the financing of local communities in the territories of local self-government with the idea of local communities being an obligation, to form themselves in urban and rural territories, and to make 80% of the property tax on the territory of a local community directly and forward to the advice of local communities, so that they can dispose of that money as they wish. Of course, that would stimulate other things, which is that people are seriously going to deal with politics at that lowest level, which is very important because it is the direct and most direct contact with citizens across Serbia. Of course, the law would also have to follow a change in the electoral system, which is also very important, and above all at the local and republican level. In this way, we would stimulate those best among us to put their name and last name in front of their citizens and seek support for what they will do both in the local parliament and in the republican parliament. So, when you have representatives of the people who answer to their people, not party delegates who aim only to speak what they get from the top of their parties, then in Serbia, too, the processes and the adoption of laws and the management of the units of local self-government and the ministries and everything else will take place. In the event of a change in the Electoral Law, you would not have had the situation of individual MPs who are with their companies and whose companies and wives are accused of two million-euro malfeasances, 100 000 euros for counterfeiting, having a number of evidence of this, having trials that are being obstructed, you would not be able to trade with them that they are tasked here to attack the opposition, to bring up lies and vomit in exchange for their wives, wives or relatives not being accused, but to keep these cases in drawers. When order is introduced, it won't be that either. He won't be able to make a drawer and say, "Well, now go to the assembly and lie and attack the opposition people, and we'll file a criminal report for your wife to keep in the drawer until she's old." That's how the SNS system in Serbia works today, but it won't take long. There's gonna be a moment when someone's gonna open those drawers, so we're all gonna see who's what and how they're doing. As for the authorities who accuse the opposition today, I invite you to process everything, first me and all the other colleagues. You're in power for the seventh year. You were able to process everything and arrest everyone who wronged the law, not lie here and deceive people, and you don't even have the courage to put on the agenda... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47930	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. This proposal was not accepted. The MP Alexic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47931	I thank the president. There are now over 638,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia. Two million people live directly or indirectly today from agriculture, people who are employed in agriculture. Your power since 2012 has only been taken from farmers without giving them anything. Subsidies have been reduced, premiums have been reduced, incentives have been reduced, fuel-accumulated, expensive repromaterials, fertilizers, pesticides and everything else. So, you want to completely impoverish the peasants, and that is why I call on you to put this bill on the agenda because it implies increasing agricultural yields, means increasing both premiums and regressions, and that is the only way for our farmers to be competitive with European countries and to be able to perform on the world market rather than just European ones. So, when you came to power in 2012, you promised Serbian farmers in your white book that each year you would increase the agricultural budget by one percent. In 2012, when you came to power, the agricultural budget was 5%. Today is 2018, it is 4%, 44 billion you have foreseen for Serbian farmers in this year's budget. So you brutally lied to them and deceived them and you do it before each election. You're full of farmers' mouths only when they need to vote and go to the polls, and you've reduced the incentives per hectare, you've reduced all other charges, you've raised the price of gasoline. Today, a liter of diesel is more expensive than a kilo of raspberries. That was never before, until you came to power. Today you base agricultural policy and direct and announce to farmers that you will develop agriculture by exporting pig heads and tails and chicken legs somewhere in some Arab countries, that this is more prosperity than fruit growing, vegetables, warfare, etc. Perhaps because one of the key people who runs agriculture in Serbia today, a stock exchange expert, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, who needs to answer here what about the cereals that ate the mice from the stock reserves, which he took for storage. It's not even an amount, 100,000 euros, but he's supposed to take care of other farmers today. He's worried that he grabs for himself in the competitions and takes everything he can take and doesn't care about farmers at all. That is why I call on you to put this law on the agenda and to urgently raise incentives for farmers, so as not to permanently lose the race with competition from Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47932	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy on stock companies and the system "First Five-year-old" Trstenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47933	I submitted a proposal on the education of the survey board to determine the facts, circumstances, related to the introduction of bankruptcy into the "First Five-year-old" Triestenik. On the first of January 2016, you introduced bankruptcy and shut down a factory that until that day 70% of all that produced exported, a factory where workers regularly received profits, which had certified books and which had not received any subsidies from the budget in the last few years. You shut down that factory because the IMF told you that you had to clear up with companies that were of national importance, so you cut where it hurts the least. You tricked the workers. You told them they had to volunteer for a social program or else they'd lose it. You told them that when they took the social programme and the severances, they would get a job at the second new Five-year-old that the state would do. People volunteered for a social programme and it was the only way to bring bankruptcy, because the company didn't owe any commercial employer or dinar. He had no one to launch the bankruptcy. The only way was to trick the workers into volunteering to shut down their factory. What happened after that? Afterwards, all the repro-materials, raw materials, finished products and semi-products that had "The First Five-year-old" purchased by a private company that was built several days later by the same SNS directors, who also led the first five-year-old in shutting down and bankruptcy. They signed contracts with a new private company, with customers she sold to Petoletka, representing themselves as a legal successor and continuing to sell the same products, by buying 10 times as cheap as they sold them. It's corruption. It is a crime, and that is why Serbia is on the FATF blacklist, and that is why Serbia is also on the GREK list, which is being initiated because corruption in Serbia has been increasing since May, and it is not reducing. It's the way you rule. So I'm asking you to adopt this proposal to form a survey board, so if any of what I'm saying is not true, you're denying me. So let's talk openly about these things, see who it is today who got what generations built and created in Triestenik, got on a plate to sell, to put money in their pockets, and to finance political parties that are in power today, abuse power. Someone will answer for it someday. One of the basics after the fall of your regime will be the review of all the insubordinations you have committed during your term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47934	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. You don't have any more suggestions. (Miroslav Aleksic: I don't? I don't have any records. (Miroslav Aleksic: You skipped me. Bring it to me. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake "state of Kosovo", the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Do you want a word? (Marian Risticevic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vuk Jeremic was an unequivocally involved in building a wild "state of Kosovo". He, along with Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas, together with Miroslav Aleksic, made a fake "state of Kosovo and Metohija" to preserve their power and, above all, the rule of Boris Tadic. Vuk Jeremic apologized to the US ambassador for his national rhetoric, which he himself claimed he used to score political points in the country. Vuk Jeremic changed, along with Boris Tadic, the resolution, the UN and UN motion for a resolution replaced EULEX and thus eliminated Russia and China from the process, and put our country in a difficult position, and, in my opinion, committed, along with Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, an act of high treason. Namely, the gentlemen mentioned often went to Jennifer Brass at the US Embassy and said they had nothing against Kosovo's independence, but that it would happen after the Tadic elections. Since I am accused of lying, I have to show, for this purpose, and how the contracts for carrying out various works between the National Employment Service, Ljubisa Knezevic, the father-in-law of a small descendant, therefore, Mr Alexic, who signed contracts and transferred money to the Human Resources Fund, while declaring the false state of Kosovo and Metohija, the false state of Kosovo, our southern province: four million 277,000; then four million 537 thousand; nine million 407 thousand; then 11 million 876 thousand; then two million and 60 thousand; well, they were few, three million 954 thousand; and for the care of the elderly, no one was found, nine million 284 thousand; and for the public works nine million 328 thousand, which were not done. In doing so, the Association consisted of: Ljubisa Knezevic, father-in-law of Mr. Aleksic, member of Vuk Jeremic, his party, Marija Knezevic, wife of the mentioned gentleman, and Miroslav Aleksic himself, and eventually they tried to transfer responsibility to Julia Jovanovic, and here is the signature of Mr. Aleksic, which empowers the lady to have the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47936	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47937	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MPs from the ruling majority, behold, from Sunday to Sunday, so for years, the opposition has been proposing that we discuss certain laws, today the opposition has proposed more than 200 points of the agenda, but you have no hearing, no desire, no capacity to discuss the laws concerning the lives of citizens. You don't allow us to discuss in parliament. You've abolished Parliament. What is this Serbian Progressive Party afraid of? Why are you afraid to introduce our anti-corruption mechanisms into our system? What is the problem with introducing integrity plans into political parties? All citizens in this country believe that the biggest political corruption is corruption, that there is corruption in political parties. Why won't you let us talk about it and introduce mechanisms to prevent corruption in political parties? You get into a political party, then you come to a state office, and then you steal at that state office. Why are we looking for integrity plans from state authorities and not from a political party, when we need to learn all ethics in a political party and how it treats public resources? So, the Serbian Progressive Party does not want to introduce integrity plans into the political party, as this would warn corruption, and it refers to the financing of political parties. Why? Because you yourself have admitted that you are misusing the Law on the financing of political parties, because you yourself have admitted that when one person wants more than the allowed limit to donate to the parties, he gives other people that money. You had 17,000 of them who gave 40,000 dinars in the last election for your campaign. How many of them are social cases? What we certainly learned after the election is that one of them is the man who is today the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. So is it possible that a political party's fund could become the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which should analyse and approve political party reports on spending? So that's the way you fight corruption or, I'd say, you don't want to fight corruption, which is bigger than ever in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47938	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47939	Since corruption in this country eats income and reduces gross social product, you must reach out for an increase in property tax. That's why we proposed this law to change what the SNS did in 2013. That's what we're proposing for four full years. In one day you passed a law that increased your property tax in certain areas by 200 to 300%. Gentlemen, by your decision, by your vote here, someone has been raised in the property tax 300%, at the same time as your decision to cut someone's pension 25%, some 22%, some 10%, someone's salary is reduced 10%, as you've imposed a excise on electricity by your decision, you've raised the electricity price by 12%. The citizens of this country can't survive. They can't sell these apartments to citizens of this country who don't have the money to pay taxes on property, because they have no one to sell them to. The price of those apartments is dropping. Why is it falling? To buy those who have earned money in the last six years. Is that the goal? To have new tycoons come to places where citizens have lived for hundreds of years? For the last 50 years, they've been living in their apartments and houses. So is it a luxury for a four-member family to live in a 100-square apartment? Gentlemen, it's not a luxury, it's constitutional law. We have the right to live in apartments that are our property. And don't make us out of these apartments with unreasonable taxes. How can someone plan a life in this country if they don't know if you're going to raise the tax by 100% tomorrow or the day after? Before the last elections, you raised your property tax in Belgrade by 2% extra, and then you said, well, we won't raise because the elections are, we'll do it after the election. Now, with a chill, everyone expects what's going to be in the 2019 budget. Why? To fund an 83,000-euro tree from that tax. To fund the New Year's Enlightenment that you set in September, it takes six months, as if we're celebrating the New Year's Eve for six months. Free coalition partners, led by the SNS, allow us to discuss making a predictable tax in this country, that it cannot be raised more than 7%, to allow up to 25 square meters per member of the family household tax not to be paid, because it is not a luxury, it is the right to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47940	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 10. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of the funds allocated for the election campaign. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47941	Thank you. The title of this proposal shows the need to educate a polling committee that would determine everything the public has been worried about lately and what the media are writing about, and this is the accidental spending of funds in the election campaign. At that time, I will remind myself of only some of the most important moments, and that is, for example, the head of the previous speaker, Vuk Jeremic, who traveled around the world on a plane to some football games, some sports events, still not clear from whose money and what money. Then, we have an example that citizens remember well, when former President Boris Tadic travelled by plane to the Pandorf mall, where he bought whether the wardrobe, which is already, it is not clear to anyone. We did not get answers to clearly asked questions. We have a fact that some parties, like the false Patriotic Dvera movement, who, in coalition with all those who sit here today, have been making noises all day and honoring something, who in a very scandalous way, have spent funds from the state to conduct a pre-election campaign, by making fictitious contracts with various companies, and some kind of services, and this one is their leader, and who is the coordinator of all of them, therefore, and this small-time speaker and these left of him and these right of him, where he bought suits from that money, etc. So these are all issues that concern the citizens of Serbia, and these are questions that we should get an answer to. I think that the education of the survey board is the best way to get answers to all these questions in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47942	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that your proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47943	I thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've all been elected to the elections. We had opportunities to look at past parliamentary elections as these elections were being stolen. We watched that in a direct TV feed. Serbian citizens all know, there is a consensus in society, that the electoral law is wrong. Only the SNS resists and flees from the amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs as the devil of the cross. You can't even discuss it, you won't even let it come to the agenda and talk about what's wrong with election laws. These are laws from 20 years ago. They have their shortcomings, but you and such laws have managed to abuse both the past and the previous and the cycle before that. That's why the laws have to change. Why are you running away from it? Run because you formed RIK against the law so you have a majority, and then the majority in RIK count the sacks later and count the bag they like, which they don't like doesn't count. Why didn't you count the RIK bag we opened, where we found that 60 SDS votes were in Leška, in the polling post, where our MP Goran Bogdanovic is. All those voices were transferred to the SNS envelope. Gentlemen, that's the only place you stole 60 votes. What happened to the eight thousand polling stations? Why won't you let us change it by this law, to prevent the possibility of stealing? Why are you afraid of fair choices? Are you aware that when citizens see that elections are not fair, they do not trust institutions? They do not believe in the institutions of this state and because they do not believe in the institutions of this state they are leaving the country. People are leaving the country. Since you've been in power, 60,000 people have fled Serbia annually with their heads no matter what they never return. Forty thousand is less born. A hundred thousand people are less every year. What do you want, to disappear like a society? And we'll be gone. In 10 years, there'll be a million less of us. There's only seven million of us now. Why are you running away from discussing this? What's parliament for if you won't let us discuss... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47944	Time. I'm putting it to a vote. Finalising vote: for – eight. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47945	We have proposed to amend the Law on Local Elections. Subsidically, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and local elections is being applied, and we proposed this before it was an election year, even for the Belgrade elections we had this year. You didn't want to discuss it, and you didn't want to discuss it for reasons so you could abuse the rights given to the participants in the political race. There was no debate. There were no organized debates. There were no equal terms in the campaign. Why weren't there even conditions? Because you had 10 times more money than any other political player, than all the other lists in that election cycle. It wasn't fair because you had 100 times as much time in the media before the elections, and that's the system you're trying to keep going. So it's a system that pre-election election results actually steals. The theft is before the election. If someone shows up 90% in the media, and everyone else is 10%, there's no fair choice. If someone spends 20m euros on the campaign, and everyone else can't raise a million, not two, not three, there's no fair choice. Why are you running away from getting a way of showing up in the media? Why are you running away from us all showing up in the media in the election campaign? That's what we propose to this law. Why are you running away from the national frequency media giving free time to appear in the media, not to spend tens of millions of euros in the campaign? To whom does one party, one list spends 20m euros, as the SNS spends in the campaign? Where'd you get that money? Whose money are they? It's the money of Serbian citizens. Why do we fund it that way from the budget? Why are you afraid of a fair election game? What's the problem? Why are you afraid to prevent the possibility, which is usually both abuse and crime, that your activists go with a voter list from the polling station to the polling post? Where'd they get the voter list? Where did the members and activists get the list of voters for a particular polling post with the home number, name, last name, address of any citizen in this country? Gentlemen, this is a felony. We watched the videos of you wearing the ballots. We watched the videos on TV... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47946	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against, no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. Would you like a word, colleague Konstantinovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47947	I thank you, Vice President of Parliament. So, since we are proposing amendments to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs for years, here we have proposed another version, if it does not suit you first, in which we have accepted everything that the OSCE proposes year after year that should be changed in our electoral legislation. So, the OSCE Mission, the European Commission found that there is no transparent and fair electoral process in the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, we are a member of the OSCE, we took part in the establishment of the OSCE, and why are we still members of the OSCE when you do not want to adopt any of the OSCE recommendations? That's also in the European Commission's report this year. I quote: "It is necessary to fully approach the implementation of recommendations from international observers including those relating to transparency, the integrity of the electoral process during the election campaign". What process do you lead towards joining the EU when this first recommendation does not occur to you, not to apply, but not to you to talk about it? All the recommendations given by the OSCE, and it has made a recommendation and it has found that the same opportunities must be provided in the competition, so there are no equal opportunities in the competition in Serbia, to share activities that are both state and party. What's that? It's a functional campaign. It is clear to all of us that the ministers, the president of the state, the Prime Minister, are going in black limos in a campaign on the cost of the country's citizens, and are actually campaigning for the SNS. Gentlemen, you can't do that. That's what the OSCE mission tells you, it can't. Let's change the law and ban it strictly. The organisation for European security and co-operation says, "State bodies should not interfere with media and journalists' activities." So the state interferes with the media's editorial policy. The state interferes with what the press will report. There's no free choice. The law should provide effective mechanisms for the protection of the remedy. Gentlemen, what do you do? You on RIK, where you have most of them, bring instructions that the opposition does not have members of the electoral committees on the part of Serbia's territory, bring a guide not to count votes at the polling station, but to count in another city, in Vranj, in Raska, that no one can control it. The European Security and Co-operation Organisation tells you – gentlemen, it cannot, you have to change that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47948	Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a tax-determining law on undeclared citizens' income. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47949	I suggested, I think there's gotta be more than a year now, and that's what the Social Democratic Party has informed the public about, and we've suggested that we discuss here the adoption of a law that otherwise represents a pre-election promise of the SNS, which is the law on the origin of the property. As far as we're talking about this law on the origin of property, he's already got one nickname in the people, and that's aunt's law. Citizens are alluding to an affair held by Minister Vulin, when he could not explain to the Anti-Corruption Agency how he earned 200,000 euros to buy an apartment. The agency felt that he had not offered an adequate explanation. Unfortunately, every three days enough, there's no more in the media. The Anti-Corruption Agency has been completely abolished. At the head of the agency came a man who was a member of the working body in front of the SNS at the elections and a SNS financier and of course he won't talk about this issue any further. We therefore propose a law by which to determine who is and how he acquired money and property, or to compare it, which is much simpler, with taxed incomes. If one cannot show that he has taxed income in the value of acquired assets, he must pay an additional tax, whether that tax will be 20%, 30% or 40%, depending on how much he cannot justify the property. This is an effective way to fight corruption. You don't want to. You've come to power by campaigning to fight corruption, you've initiated some criminal proceedings, obviously without evidence, since no one's been convicted. No one's been convicted. No one has been convicted for seven years of your authority, and that's what you've been talking about in the media for days. Why are you afraid to pass a law that will allow you to verify the property of all officials and all citizens, to cross-reference with taxed incomes? There's 10 billion money in the gray zone. That 10 billion 30% of GDP generates corruption in this country. It's money obtained from crime, drugs, unreported jobs, unreported incomes. This way we could eliminate it all. It's a real fight against corruption. You fight corruption only in words, and you don't want any mechanisms to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47950	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, for the purpose of establishing the agenda of this session. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of So Indji, Goran Jesic and the unintended spending of funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47951	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the property, me as "Blic" and "Nin" says - I'm a thief, and I've never exercised executive power, so I didn't do it, I wasn't the director of public enterprises, I'm all the property my family acquired for Goran Jesic's assets, which he acquired in a few years. I'm almost ready to trade all my assets for that flat of his in Vienna of 160m2 in downtown Vienna. So, so much for those previous problems about the origin of the property, etc. I'm absolutely up for it, but you'll be very disappointed. I wish your officials Gilas, Gilas, Gilas, Jeremic, etc. be ready to replace the property with Mr. Martinovic, with me, etc. with ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, let's see who the Media Direct is, who earned 100m euros in advertising trade. Dear gentlemen of the former DS, from the former regime, you who robbed pensioners, blankets, grandparents, you who robbed pregnant women, you who owed 400 million dinars in Belgrade alone, you who charged an illegal 3.5 billion more for kindergartens, so we have to pay it back, here we are ready to trade our property with you. The choices you call and talk about stealing, so I'll tell you about Goran Jesic's affair. As president of the municipality's assembly, which Mr. Martinovic knows, I was transferred to the Water Administration building on 5 October 2007. That's how you chose, no quorum, no nothing. That's how you respected the will of the people. To remind you that all elections, including those held in India, are now being held both republican and local and cityal, according to the regulations that you have made. Are you telling me you've brought in the thief's regulations? The electoral authorities are always you, most of them, the Law on the financing of political parties and political activities, and you're complaining today about how someone has more money, so who's to blame for pushing the DS, for letting Gilas dictate and use it as a pendant. Who's to blame for your party being 1,000 and a few days in a blockade? You left, you disbanded some other parties. You want to lead the country, you want to lead the people, and you want a party to block 1,000 and a few days. You're talking about thieving, you're raising "Moms are the law," so you've damaged pensioners, pregnant women, maternity parents, you've damaged parents who sent children to kindergartens, you're, like, one thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47952	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47953	I thank the chairman. We find a particular problem in the decades-long absence of adequate cultural policy of our country. In fact, state institutions that are obliged to comply with constitutional and legal standards, to work to preserve and protect Serbian language, simply do not do their job. For many politicians, protecting Serbian language is a marginal issue, and some are even ashamed to talk about it. That is why we believe that state institutions are obliged to pay far more attention to this issue and to encourage, finance and in other ways enable the development of scientific projects, aimed at protecting the Serbian language, as well as Serbian cultural and spiritual heritage in general, both in the country of origin and in the region and dispersion. With the proposed declaration, we create a basis for state institutions to provide better protection to the Serbian language, and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia finally formulates a clear and clear political position that all literary and scientific works written in Serbian are part of the Serbian, spiritual and cultural heritage, and that this declaration serves as a kind of driver for the creation of a new Serbian cultural policy, a cultural policy that we need today more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47954	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Member of Parliament Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point – a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of the literary and cultural treasures of the Serbian language created on the Latin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47955	I'm practically getting attached to the previous subject. The Dvori believe that there is a real danger that the Cyrillic as a basic letter of the Serbian language will be squeezed out and completely lost from use in the public sphere, which we find inadmissible. Unfortunately, it seems that those who should most of all share this concern of ours do not. The issue of Cyrillic protection, as a basic Serbian letter to the state institutions, is unfortunately not a priority, but a quite side issue that does not deserve more attention. This has been the situation in Serbia for decades, so the adoption of such a declaration is an initial step in the right direction. Also, it is very important that we protect with this declaration all the treasures of the Serbian language that were created on the Latin. We ask the competent state authorities to protect themselves as part of the Serbian cultural history of literary works created in the Latin, in the international scientific public, because it is written works in Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47956	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Member of Parliament Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be filled in to the point – a proposal for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47957	The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should agree with us to make a complete list of all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives in the country wars, so that their names are not forgotten. In particular, we would like to draw the attention of the local and world public to the absence of any kind of xenophobia, intolerance, chauvinism and national intolerance of the majority Serbian people towards non-Serb people through examples and honoring numerous non-Serb nationality members, who throughout history stood out for their courage, sacrifice in wars to free themselves from the occupiers. It is evident that in the Balkan wars, the First and Second World Wars, as well as in the country's defence wars from 1991 to 1999, by warring and sacrificing themselves for Serbia, many non-Serb nationalities died, enrolling themselves in the eternal book of heroes, under which the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to develop a memory culture, all in order to develop peace and harmony of members of different nationalities who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that adopting a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationality of the country makes the first step in paying attention to this topic, so that through the legislative activities of the National Assembly and the efforts of the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, a special state holiday called the Day of Protector of Motherland and State Unity, which would mark the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47958	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned – has. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Parliament member Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the situation in the Public Business Post of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Member of Parliament Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unpaid diaries for war veterans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47959	There is an open breach of the applicable law in the field of combat disability protection against users, especially with regard to the application of Article 28. The law on the fundamental rights of combatants and families of fallen fighters, which is the basis for determining the rights and methods of harmonisation of rights. The application of the Regulation on orthopaedic aid for military disabled persons is also unsatisfactory, as orthopaedic aids used by military disabled people are not implemented in accordance with the law and the rule. There are also no problems with the use of apartments built from Japanese donations and NIP funds, since many apartments are uninhabited or unfounded in them are those who are not related to the fighting disability population and are not given the possibility of buying these apartments, etc. There are no even criteria for funding the fighting disability associations. The allocation of funds shall be implemented without adequate legal basis. There's a large number of fighters who don't have health insurance, and I could actually count the problems these people face all day long. As a result, special efforts should be made to improve the state and society's relations with war veterans, wartime wartime peoples, civil disabled wars, families of fallen fighters and other members of this population. To this end, the poll committee we are proposing would be advocating the adoption of a parliamentary resolution on the character of wars from 1990 to 1999 and the status of the fighters of these wars that we consider very important. I hope you can support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47960	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Member of Parliament Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding RTS work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47961	Since we are constantly talking about freedom of the media and fair elections, I think we should actually start with RTS and, above all, determine whether RTS is a public service for all Serbian citizens, works in accordance with the law. It is necessary to determine whether they really operate on the following principles: true, impartial, complete and timely information, independence of editorial policy, respect for professional standards and codes, prohibitions of any form of censorship and unlawful influence on the work of editorials and journalists, as well as independence from the source of information. I believe that the citizens of Serbia, reporting to RTS, one-sided and non-integrated reports of RTS, have been deceived, often misled, and simply denied to be informed in the right way. As if not enough for the Pink regime, Studio B and other private stations, to lead citizens astray, to spread lies and slanders, it must also be used for this. That is why it is very important to form this polling committee and finally start to release Serbia's media scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47962	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's poll committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential election to the day of publication of the provisional election results at 99.9% of polling stations. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the elections for the Council of the City of Belgrade, held on 4 March 2018, from the day of the call to the day of publication of the final results. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances related to the non-solving of the problems of Serbian citizens in business banks with credit indexed in Swiss francs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47963	Especially in the face of amending the Law in a litigation procedure, it is really necessary that we finally put into the agenda the debate on loans indexed in Swiss francs. In fact, a huge number of families in Serbia are at risk. Their primary security is threatened because they are over-indebted and actually in slavery with banks that gave them credit indexed in Swiss francs. Unfortunately, the state has done nothing, such as some of the measures we see in the announcement in the Republic of Croatia or like Hungary that protected its citizens. The Republic of Serbia has no intention of protecting over-indebted families, and in this particular case, it has no intention of dealing with people who are in trouble because of credit in Switzerland, to put it so simply. Namely, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which we will discuss tomorrow, will allow banks to sell their claim to any institution or private company in the world, so that citizens, who have paid the apartment three times as much as they are worth, will be able to find themselves on the street more easily than they are today. This is scandalous and I think that, apart from the MPs who would start discussing at least this problem and now vote to put it on the agenda, no one else will protect these citizens, no one will help save about 50,000 families in Serbia. So thank you in advance for supporting my proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47964	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the protection of Serbs in dispersion and the region. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47965	I think we're all going to agree that Serbs are in dispersion, actually our diaspora, our greatest resource. Of the 12 million Serbs, over five million live abroad, and as it began with developments in the country, with the poor rule of this regime and the departure of young, successful, educated people, we will soon be more out of Serbia than in Serbia itself. That is why it is necessary to bring a declaration that would begin to resolve some practical issues, at the beginning, for example, that institutions should be obliged, in accordance with the obligations arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by concluding bilateral agreements with all the states in which Serbs live, to insist on the protection of the personal and collective rights of our countrymen. Then, to pay better attention to Serbs in the region who have been making it impossible to preserve religious, national and cultural identity since the collapse of the SFRY and the formation of new states in the Balkans, which is not the case in Serbia. In Serbia, it is possible for everyone to do so. The state institutions are also obliged to encourage, finance and in other ways make it possible to produce scientific projects that will bring the local and world public to know about the genocide that Serbs experienced in the 20th century. Even simpler things, the state institutions need to move towards resolving the problem of citizenship, electoral rights, restitution, opening archives and secret files, the problems of refugees, exiled and displaced persons, because it is a shame that we are now solving the problems of migrants, who are indeed in trouble, and that we have not solved the problems of our countrymen and our refugees. That is why it is perfectly logical for you to support us starting to take care of our diaspora and of all Serbs in the region and dissipation. I thank you for that. Here, I really believe you'll support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47966	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjušević suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify facts related to the privatisation of the spa, a source of drinking water and property of the PIO Fund. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47967	It is necessary to protect our spas, to protect our natural resources, because it is clear that in the future, as already in the Middle East and Africa, food wars and drinking water are being fought, Serbia has its resources, but unfortunately, because of the poor rule of this regime, the inn and the non-domestic businesses. I'm particularly concerned about the announced privatisation of the spa. Minister Rasim Ljajic has already announced that he will start with Sijarinska, Vranjska and Kursumlijska Banja, which further calls for caution, due to all those developments in our southern province as well. I would certainly add to that the PIO Fund, which the state has literally taken over, although it is the property of all employees, of all Serbian citizens, who are filling this fund with their work. The property of the PIO fund is over 10 billion euros and we can't play with this. Also, drinking water is not a resource that is renewable, which we can sell and which we can only inhabit. What has been particularly worrying lately is the mini power plants. I don't know how many citizens are familiar with the fact that the state of Serbia, that this regime, more specifically, has allowed private people to put the entire stream of river into a tube, to gain acceleration, to produce electricity that is then sold and from that it is rich, destroying the living world, making it impossible for citizens who have their own country, their own estates along those rivers, making it impossible for them to live there. That is why it is necessary for us to start talking about how we will protect our rivers, our drinking water resources, the assets of the PIO fund and how to enrich those 10 billion euros, and not just leave them to the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47968	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the effect of subsidising foreign enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47969	Yes, it is necessary to determine whether it makes sense for us to subsidise foreign businesses, to pay five to ten thousand euros each for a job as a free workforce, which makes 25,000 dinars. The total amount of funds granted, i.e. the total amount paid to support foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia in the period 2012 to 2018, is to be determined precisely and, of course, to find out who is responsible for such a waste of money. Here, today you can read in the list "Today" Predrag Mitrovica, a council member in the Belgrade City Assembly who simply explained – foreign investments that bring knowledge, technology and high wages, are never, and will not, come for subsidies. Instead of paying five or ten thousand euros for a job where we have a working motto of 25,000 dinar pay cables, we have to change the system in which we live and work thoroughly. And I would add -- we have to turn to ourselves, to our resources and finance domestic production, because that's the only thing that guarantees us survival in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47970	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Here you are, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47971	I thank the chairman. Indeed, there are a large number of scientific gatherings around the world on the crimes committed by NDH, and six international conferences on Jasenovac were held. And, unfortunately, more than 70 years have passed since the end of World War II, and we haven't established detailed facts and the number of victims. On December 9, 1948, the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide by the UN General Assembly was also adopted, and we still do not know exactly the true truth about the extent of the crimes committed against Serbs, Jews and Roma. What's more, they're looking for a 20-fold reduction in numbers. The independent state of Croatia was the only country during World War II where concentration camps for child extinction existed: Jastrebarsko, Stara Gradiška, Ustica, Jasenovac, Jablanac, Rijeka near Jastrebarski, Gornja Rijeka near Križevec, Lovograd. According to more unfinished research, 42,791 Serbian children, 5,737 Roma and 3,710 Jewish children died there. The crime of genocide in NDH is equal to the holocaust that Nazi Germany committed against the Jews. It was also unquestionably found that in camps designed for the systematic destruction of Serbs, Jews and Roma, both Croats and Muslims were killed, solely because of their ideological belonging to the anti-fascist movement. The Croatian people never accepted responsibility for the genocide that was committed on his behalf, as the German people did for the Holocaust. And the Roman Catholic Church did not condemn NDH crimes, as she could condemn crimes committed worldwide. It is not necessary to lose sight of the fact that xenophobic debates have been conducted in public in the Republic of Croatia lately that everything that is Serbian in this country is being satanic and that none of the EU officials react to the growing threat of Serbian national and status issues, although Croatia is an EU member. We believe that MPs are obliged to support the NDH genocide resolution against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, in order to establish the final and irrefutable facts of the 20th century Serbian people's death and that no one, in London, or in Washington or Berlin, would have thought to call the Serbs... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47972	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Atlagic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of Maria Janjusevic and the link with secret societies. Here's a colleague of Atlagic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47973	Dear Vice-President, the aim of the polling committee would be to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the affair of the respected MP, Marija Janjusevic, and her ties with the Masonery. Namely, Marija Janjusevic is a high-ranking massa member, with a third-degree master's rank. There are 21 members of that rank in the Republic of Serbia, she is among them. She founded and managed the lodge "Princessa Milica" and has the rank of officers in Serbia's Grand Lodge and is the president of the Court of Honor of the Great Women's Lodge of Serbia. The head of the masseary in the Republic of Serbia is Mr Tahir Hasanovic, he claims to be connected to the English intelligence service MI6 whose agent he is, and some believe that the honourable MP Marija Janjusevic is connected to MI6. What is not good, which is that distinguished MP Marija Janjusevic has provided insight into the media bases of Ninamedija for the purposes of masseuse, so that the Masons had in mind and served all the bases of the ministries of the Republic of Serbia, state bodies, local self-government bodies, public enterprises, embassies and private companies and political decisions of Dveri. If Dvori is represented as a Christian movement and are called to Christianity, and in the copy of the honourable MP Maria Janjusevic, it is said that there are masseous rituals that include masseous sacred regals, mortuary skulls, ritual swords that are being pecked in the rites of the new members for whom the esteemed MP Marija Janjusevic was in charge. The Masons, gentlemen, supported and ensured Maria Janjusevic to enter this high house, Bosko Obradovic, through the Masons and Marija Janjusevic sought to provide support for the Masons and English intelligence services, so it is extremely important that we form this survey board, to determine all the circumstances related to Parliament of the People's Parliament, Marija Janjusevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47974	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia. Here you go, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47975	Thank you, Chairman. I suggested that we officially protect the family since I am part of the Dvora family movement and that is the problem for those people who are enemies of the family and who simply do not care about their honor and allow themselves to speak. But you should always watch who's talking, not what he's saying, so I'm always for all the committees of inquiry and for the determination of the truth. Family, a natural family based on a marriage union, men and women are our most important national resource. Family is also a basic unit of economic security, simple and national security. Nothing's been threatened as much as a family today. That is why it is necessary to adopt a resolution, that we finally start talking in this high home about the protection of the family, but in the right way, because we are witnesses that the Ministry without portfolio, which is reportedly dealing with demographic issues, the Demographic Council, led by Ana Brnabic, is now hearing recently and some new working body formed that should take care of the family, is all, simply, the deception of citizens. Here, we also have the Financial Support Act, after which mothers are forced to seek their rights on the street. That is why it is important that we at least declare that Serbia is a country that is a friend of the family and that it does everything to support the family model of society and that both the ministries and the media and the Government of the Republic of Serbia participate, and not that we have the case that it is the prime minister, I think it was the Belgrade Security Forum, said that it is not possible for us to legally introduce ourselves to prohibit the employer from asking whether he will give birth. Please, you talk about hate speech all the time. I think what the Prime Minister said is that an employer can ask a woman if she's going to give birth, that it's a hate speech. By adopting a declaration of family protection, we would simply change the climate and finally get the right conditions. So, not for hypocritical advances, but for sincerely supporting the fight against the white plague, and I'm warning you all here to spray the people... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47976	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the work of RTV. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation of Studio B. Does National MP Marija Janjusevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47977	It is important to set up a survey committee to deal with the property of employees in Studio B, who bought 80% of the assets of Studio B in 1992, but in 2015, the Privatisation Agency simply took away their property. So Studio B was sold to a private company called Maksim Media, which, among other things, was obliged to invest 350,000 euros in the promotion of this media. We are all aware that Studio B is not that it is not improved, but is simply usurped as one propaganda machine SNS, as one pale copy of "Pinka". This polling committee must ensure that it ceases, that the abuse of Studio B ceases and that the 1992 shareholders of Studio B are compensated.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47978	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the work of REM in the course of the election campaign 2014, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Mary Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47979	Of course, when it comes to REM, I simply have to take the floor, because we had a case that, despite our national frequency, we could hear the scandalous mention of Milica Rakic, girls killed by NATO bombing, NATO enemies. Her name was mentioned in the jokes at the reality show. Some media also took part in drawing a target at the head of the late Oliver Ivanovic and after all of this by REM adviser Olivera Zekic dared to assess REM's work with an evaluation – excellent, 10. It's just one of the scandals on the media scene. It is clear that REM has long failed to do its job, that they simply do not want to interfere in their business and that they are only one extended arm of the regime, that REM is only part of the Pink coalition, SNS, REM. That's why it's important that we stand in the way of this abuse, because why would you be afraid of the truth, to determine if I'm right about what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47980	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Mary Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47981	I have proposed small amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which would actually prevent the abuse of this law. In 2009 under EU pressure, we received the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination. Unfortunately, all the accumulated problems of people with disabilities of children who are increasingly poor in Serbia, the problems of the Roma, were not enough for us to get the law before, but was voted by lobbying members of the LGBTI population, i.e. professional, so-called human rights fighters. I asked to prevent arbitrary interpretation and to throw out sexual orientations because we are witnesses that LGBTI lobbyists are increasingly aggressive. In fact, it is those who discriminate against that traditional part of the population, who, according to the Constitution, has the right to raise their children in accordance with their own, moral and religious principles, and we are witnesses that now LGBTI is changing textbooks, in kindergartens planting some pictures and other things, and there is also special evidence of Professor Ristivojevic's case, who is simply saddened by the Trustee of Birth Equality and simply got a fine and had to publish his own expense on the site a denial. He is no longer allowed to promote the family models of society, as it endangers the feelings of LGBTI populations. I think it is inadmissible that we have not yet slipped into these extremes and that once a small amendment to the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, we can preserve families in Serbia and preserve the elementary decency and application of the Constitution for all those who want to raise their children in their own, moral and religious principles, without imposing LGBTI content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47982	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the opening of the republic's elections to the day of publication of the final results of the elections. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Mary Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47983	It's very important that we determine what happened on that election night. It is often respected by the Two people that in some unfair ways we have entered parliament, and it is quite clear that this convocation does not look like the previous one, you can simply hear other topics, you can hear the truth about the lives of citizens, not just serve them lies about how great they are and how they are getting better. The greatest achievement is that you keep telling us that you're reducing unemployment and there's no increase in the number of employees. It's your marifettelus, your maths, and so it was on that election night, when you tried to steal the citizens and reverse the electoral will of the citizens. We're about to determine the facts and the truth, so I invite you to support this polling committee and not to serve you all this just so you can spread lies and slander, and when we need to talk about it and determine the facts and the truth, then shut up, then there's no bell to accept something to vote on. Please, the chairman, press the bell, so that we can determine once how the Dvori entered parliament, to determine that there was no violence in that night, that Maja Pejcic, a member of RIK, came across MP Ivan Kostic, that MP Bosko Obradovic was at all times two metres away from her, that it was all recorded with five different mobile phones. The footage exists. Once we find out who the real bully is against women. Is that the prime minister who says employers have the right to ask women if they're going to give birth? Is this Alexander Vukic, who offers women to Turks, to his friends on the labour market? Are those maniacs in the trams? Are these members of the SNS that rip throats and swallow them and offer concrete shoes? So I call upon you, let us form a committee of inquiry and determine the facts once and for all, not that you, by lying and slandering your media, are spreading lies and propaganda about the Dwarves.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47984	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, AP KiM. Here you go, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47985	I thank the chairman. It's never been such an important moment to save Kim's fate. It was never more important to stress that Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council is still in force, however much it is a bone in the throat of the United States, however much the regime avoids achieving its rights that this resolution gives it, and therefore, here, after a year of repeating the proposal for a KIM resolution, again the opportunity to ask you once again to talk about KIM, to let the citizens know what it is and what the plan of the regime is, what these platforms are talking about in the media, and we never learned their content. I'll remind you, just a week ago, perhaps less, there were ministers, 10 of them and the Prime Minister. Bosko Obradovic asked clearly to say yes or no. Whether to sign a legally binding agreement with the so-called the countries of Kosovo. No one's answered. We are simply in danger, and I am obliged to repeat once again the position of the Serbian Orthodox Church, that what has been taken, taken by force, will once be returned, and what we give by our own will, or through the will of the high treason regime, will never be returned. I'm not going to reevaluate, there's still a chance that we're talking about it, at least in public, we didn't find out that someone dared to take that final betrayal step, so I'm asking you to convince us through the debate on this resolution, that you won't even do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47986	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice", which took place in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djorđe Vukadinović suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances and to look into the situation currently in which the project "Belgrade on Water" is located. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's survey committee to identify facts and circumstances related to the affairs of Maria Janjusevic and a link with secret societies. Here's my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Church, the SPC, the Greek Orthodox Church have been anathemising the Masons. Ms. Janjusevic, a member of the organisation that wants to present itself as a church Orthodox family organisation, is a major third-degree master of the large female box, a large women's masseuse in Serbia. I don't know if the Masons are something bad, but her leader, Bosko Obradovic, who is so praised, claims and accuses the Serbian government that it's bad if the Masons sit in it, that the Masons are something bad. The Serbian Church claims that the Masons are something bad. Borko Stefanovic does not claim. Marija Janjusevic and the political party Dveri, the Serbian Dveri, and I say anti-Serbian are in league with Borko Stefanovic, left of Serbia. It's a gentleman who plays and sings, next to a burning cross. So they're a Christian organization, but they're in league with antichrists, those who have fallen crosses. They're against the Masons, but they're the Masons. They are for free elections, but they are not against the massa as they say, they have to enter parliament and they are not against Scott pushing them into parliament that night, that is to say, in a certain way, to question whether we will be bombed unless they are in the assembly benches. Now we see why. They're for Russian influence. Yes, I ask what is the difference between this gentleman and the one who breaks the cross in Kosovo. They're for KIM, but they're sitting with people who helped build KIM in 2008. They're against Gilas, but they're for Gilas. They are for Russian influence, but Jennifer Brass, on 13 August 2009, openly praised Gilas as a reliable co-worker in reducing Russian influence in Serbia, as well as a reliable protégé of the homosexual parade. They're against the parade, but they're for Gilas who says he's the protector of it. Furthermore, Jennifer Bras, Belgrade Mayor and DS leader Dragan Gilas, openly voiced dissatisfaction with Russian Ambassador Konuzin. They're for the Russians, but they're with those who are against the Russians. And that's why I'm asking this committee to be established, to see what these secret societies are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47988	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be supplemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47989	I thank the president. I owe triple thanks to Ljubivoj Rsumovic. First, he accepted my request to write an anti-GMO song that would be understandable to children and youth. He did, and he said, “Are we going to allow it? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I've read that song here before. Another thanks for being in the collection of songs he published this year. And the third song he dedicated to me. But the greatest gratitude is that, based practically on the latest strof of this song, which reads: "GMO is a foreign language of mercenaries, I studied it with professor's care and concluded, GMOs are made up of modified Serbian words shit." That is why it is a significant song so that no kicks would be made, as was done when the then senior state leader of Serbia, Mr Markovic, told the president of Yugoslavia that there were grapes in the vicinity of Smederev, and this one heard, and thought there was iron and said that Jelizara was made, with whom we had been cobbled for decades. That is why I hope that this song of Ljubivoj Ršmovic is significant, that everyone in this hall will tell what is a genetically modified organism, or GMO, of the modified Serbian word "gomno". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47990	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Ševarlic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47991	With the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we propose that Article 80b be deleted and that Article 155 be amended, so that the Fund Management Board has 15 members appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and firstly, five members of the right-holders' order on a proposal from the Joint Pensioners based at the level of the Republic, who have the largest number of members, provide evidence of the number of registered members of the Ministry responsible for pension and disability insurance matters in accordance with the act brought by the minister. Secondly, five members of the insurance company on a proposal for representative trade unions established at the level of the Republic, in accordance with the law governing the work, which has the highest number of members. Third, two members of the employers' office, one representative of the employers' union, one representative of the state administration's ministry. Four, one member of the ministry responsible for pension and disability insurance and one member of the finance ministry. Fifth, one member of the largest representative union of employees in the Republic Fund for PIO of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, the Governing Board of the Republic PIO Fund would agree with the structure of the source of the funds, and not as it is now under the applicable law, where practically only representatives of the state almost a priori or majority decide on the position of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47992	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP Ševarlic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the business of the company "Tenis" and the lease of land to the company. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47993	I thank the president. This proposes the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities in relation to the business of Tenis and by giving the land lease to this company, which should make up one MP from each parliamentary group in the National Assembly, etc. But what is important is that the task of this survey committee is to look at the facts and circumstances regarding the arrival of Tenis in Serbia and the award of the lease, and thus to determine the following, content and text of the Memorandum signed in April 2015 between Serbia and the company Tenis. Secondly, who exactly are the signatories of the Republic of Serbia and who is the carrier of the work defined by the memorandum by the Republic of Serbia, and as by Tenis? Third, what are the rights and obligations of the party signatories regarding the Memorial case? Fourth, what law or laws of the Republic of Serbia define the business that is subject to the Memorandum? Fifth, who is under what law and according to which estimates has been approved by the company "Tenis" to rent 2,420 hectares in the municipality of Zrenjanin? Sixth, who under which law and on what basis and under what conditions should the company "Tenis" use another 7,000 hectares? Seven, who, on the basis of which law and for which land is the right to rent the company Tenis from 1 November 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47994	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Miladin Ševarlic, STAR – the project and the unintended spending of the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47995	I thank the chairman. The title of this proposal shows the need for the education of the polling committee, which would discuss and identify all the circumstances associated with Miladin Ševarlic, and when it comes to the STAR project, about the unintended spending of the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture. So it's very important to determine how, how he got that money, how he spent that money, whether it was malfeasance, whether it was non-intentional spending. Why is this so important? Because it is an MP who has been elected on the Parliament's Dveri list, and we have so far identified several times how directly MPs and the head of their Dveri parliamentary group participated in this non-intentional spending of funds, such as the money that was intended for the election campaign. So we also know well that his co-worker, who sits on his right, also known "Nina Media", has been financed directly from the DS for years. I will remind you, the chairman, that she had a contract with the Indji municipality, while the president of the municipality was Goran Jesic. I'm surprised my colleague Risticevic didn't mention this one, let me say, business relationship. It turns out that everything that we otherwise claimed was true when it came to this false patriotic organization, the Dvori, which is that they are good servants of every master. So they keep pretending here to be some kind of patriots, you know they're some nationalists, and they're working with Dragan Gilas today. Today their boss is Dragan Gilas, and they are today the strikers of Dragan Gilas. But also, while, for example, the DSS was in power, they were favorites of the regime, they financed from the Colubara for years and years. The whole public knows they've been sucking money out of Columbus for years. Then when Gilas was mayor of Belgrade, they all worked hard for him, they had one, let me say, quality co-operation. The time has come to make a coalition with that lot of movement. So there's no ideology, there's no politics, there's only one who gives money, they'll be servants to him as an employer. For this reason, I think it is very important that we establish a committee of inquiry that will investigate all of this closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47996	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 10. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Miladin Ševarlic, the STAR project and the unintended spending of funds from the agriculture ministry budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if Mr. Atlagic didn't get angry, I wasn't a communist, but that joke about Tito, Smeder, grapes and iron I understood. It's very interesting to me, but he was told by Tito's youngest councilman. So, these Courts that are against the communists, they're so the youngest of Titus's councilmen to the communists, they take it that way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the STAR project was designed to revive livestock on the Old Mountain. Very interesting. In that period since 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011, and 2012, Professor Ševarlic was a professor of cooperation at the Faculty of Agriculture. And it didn't occur to him that she was then looking for a ban on genetically modified organisms, because she was working with him to modify the money. So he received 62,000 euros from the former regime's party for the STAR project. He'll say it's not true. However, I also have invoices. I have invoices all four, that money was paid, the Association of Agricultural Economists, the Association of Mr. Chevarlic. Here, everything here. Even one of his demands filled with Latin. Those who protect Cyrillic are very happy to write in Latin when it comes to money. So he asked for money, 60,000 euros, for a study that wasn't done. So, those studies are nowhere to be found. It was supposed to be done in 1,000 copies, here, all four invoices. This is the smallest of 80,000 dinars, this is 24,000 euros, this is 18,000 euros, this is 15,000 euros and here is the header, here is Mr. Chevarlic's signature. No lies, no fraud. So that's the organization that's fighting genetically modified organisms, and it's unprofessional, sugar-sugar-sugar-sugar-sick, I'm telling patients that if they did, there would be no insulin. Therefore, this topic should be approached carefully, measured, not to be discussed in a flat manner, especially when it is known that it supported Ivana Dulic Markovic, who imported 220,000 tonnes of soybeans of genetically modified soybeans. So when it comes to money, everything can, but when money is gone, when it doesn't get from the Ministry of Agriculture money, then it's against genetically modified organisms, then they're against communism, then against the Masons. They're against everything they've become. The company Čerčil and Stalin, Đilas and Bosko Obradović, looks more like the company LJotic – Hitler to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47998	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Tatjana Macura proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the legality of the SNS donation for the 2017 presidential election campaign. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. A Member of Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 6, against – no one, abstentioned – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament of Tatjana Macura has proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u47999	Thank you. This is one of the two laws that are very important to me. I will also remind you, the chairman, that at the last College, I have suggested, among other things, that what is happening in the National Assembly, which is the endless addition of the agenda and the endless amendment in the days when amendments are discussed, are somehow hitchhiking and that each MP can no more than two laws propose that during the completion of the agenda. I simply stick to this agreement, or the proposal that I proposed at the time. As for the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative, I was encouraged by the initiative launched by the Tijana Juric Foundation and 160,000 signed signatures on that occasion and that this foundation specifically wanted nothing to do with any political organisation, but that just as they were organised as individuals, as citizens of this country, the proposal to amend and supplement the laws they consider important to them, which is an amendment to the Criminal Code, therefore, to put into debate in the Assembly. How did they do that? Thus, the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative says that within seven days, 30,000 signatures of the same-minded who want to amend and supplement the law must be collected on the agenda of the Assembly. They not only did so, so they collected except 30,000 signatures, collected as many as 160,000 signatures, and thus assigned us the task of amending this proposal and supplementing the law must come to the agenda. In order to know in advance what initiatives, or how initiatives, come on the agenda, we must, in addition to setting a deadline for citizens to collect a number of signatures, also set a deadline within which it is mandatory for the National Assembly to put a proposal on the agenda, as for example. 160,000 citizens would not sign for any of the initiatives in vain. Why did I start this? I still believe that the power of the citizens, especially in that number, is far greater than the power of the individual and that instead, and I am sure that today, unfortunately, in the Assembly, given how the MPs are elected, I am sure that behind any MP, I am going away from myself, and this applies to the entire Assembly Hall, there are no 160,000 individuals who would vote for us individually tomorrow and therefore 160,000 citizens who want to put something on the agenda of the Assembly far greater power than any of us who individually can do that at any time. Dear colleagues, let us look the truth into the eyes and how much power they have, which is the power of the citizens and which we represent in this National Assembly, and I urge you to vote to discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48000	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 8, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Tatjana Macura suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 4, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48001	Thank you, Chairman. So this is the second law that's most important to me in the world, and it's about the Financial Support Act for families with children. We have had a debate twice in the last year in the Serbian Parliament over this law, and we have both made a lot of mistakes, we as MPs, first of all, unfortunately think of you colleagues across the street, because you are the majority of the assembly that eventually adopts the laws that are in force in the Republic of Serbia. So, how did I write the amendment and the addition of this law? I will remind you that I have organised four open debates on Serbia's territories: one in Belgrade, then, in Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis and talked to precisely the women affected by the poor application of this law. It is the largest number of women who receive less than 1,000 dinars, 2,000 dinars, 3,000 dinars, and who today unfortunately are threatened by existence, and not only by them, but also by their families, because this law is currently talking about supporting the family with children. What is it that we're looking for in this law? So, that the number of months that enters the compensation account is reduced from the current 18 months to 12 months, and that is because women in the most productive period of life are very difficult to reach employment on a continuous basis of 18 months. So we're sure that there's a very large number of invisible workers that are invisible to the system, first of all, because they volunteer somewhere, work on black, and therefore it's very difficult for them to become visible to the system in order to achieve the right to compensation. Then, to ensure that all of these women, including those listed, are compensated during maternity leave at least at the height of the republican minimum, and that the variable part, or that those mothers who are 18 months or more should not be damaged, is accounted for by some new formula. Then, to increase the maximum payment from an average of three earnings to an average of five earnings, as the former legal solution spoke of. Then, to identify entrepreneurs who and how to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, who are practically punished for using maternity leave and leave for child care. Then, that agricultural insurance companies, which are recognised by this law, are recognised in a more adequate way and that the number of months they need, which is 24 months, is reduced to 12 months, as well as for all other mothers. What's alarming is that this woman's time is a luxury and that it's just us and our will that depends on whether they have a dignified motherhood. I invite you colleagues to vote for your moms.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48002	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalizing vote: for -9. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48003	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It has been a real pleasure to wait for this time and to wait for you to propose real bill proposals, and I expect that this idyllic atmosphere that was created will be continued by having the understanding to accept my bill. Of course, they are such that they are addressed to the general benefit of Serbian citizens, regardless of which part of Serbia, how old, gender, age or political commitment they are from. The first law, the first few laws, which someone has already wrongly said – set, are health laws, is the Government Act that I propose to be above members and Article 11. The Government Act also changes that it states: "Healthability and incompatibility and conflict of interest" - before the government's election, any proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. You have two other attitudes regarding incompatibility and conflict of interest, they already exist, the point is in this change. It means that, like all other people who want to start a working relationship in state authorities, ministers are people who have this obligation, some of them, most of them, to do what anyone who wants to be a secretary, a coffee cook, a machine locksmith or something else in some public institution. If it can be, I think it should be a commitment for all people who want to be employed by the state authorities, of course it should be an obligation for future ministers as well. Let me remind you, in modern Serbian history, although there was no legal basis for it, the government of Dr Zoran Djindjic and all the candidates for ministers, when they came to parliament, if I remember correctly, on January 25, 2001, brought with them medical assurances about the health capacity to work in state bodies that they received from the reference institution – VMA. I think it would take days and days as long as in the last six, seven years, it was before, but intensely in the last six, seven years, we have evidence of the heavy incompetence of ministers, current and some former ones, to perform these functions. I think the road to having healthy Serbia is the first step to health, not sick people being candidates for ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48004	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48005	And this is part of this group of health laws. Please, especially fellow Members of the Parliament, listen carefully again. Article 1 of the Labour Act, Article 187(1), reads: “During pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for child care and leave of work due to temporary prevention for more than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the contract of employment. ” It's possible today. Dear colleagues, if you do not vote to put this on the agenda, and after a good debate and adoption of this amendment to the law, you will be a group of people who have supported that during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for the care of a child, leave of work for the care of a child and leave due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days an employer may fire an employee. It means that you can't or someone, not anyone from here, but someone, it's part of life, not God, when his child is sick, can't stay with his child, or if his wife is sick next to his wife, or if he's sick to sit at home, but he's going to have to go to work to get a employer who's got a huge grant money before that, because he's made a factory that's technologically developed so that on one table of splinters you've got four nails around which someone's rolling cables, and eventually he's got them rich and he's crimping them, and he can take state money, the money of citizens, to fire a mother whose child, God didn't give away from some naive disease, but also from diseases that are defined as special child care. I don't see any reason why someone who thinks well of Serbia, someone who keeps repeating it, even if he's lying, but once in his term to make an effort not to be a blind tool of someone who emits electricity that generates a bell ring, but because of their honor, because of their face, their conscience votes for something that is not a matter of politics, is not a question of either the left or the right, or the EU, or Russia, or China, or anything, but a question of the future of concrete people, children, and thus the citizens of Serbia and this country as such. I urge you to press for after I'm finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48006	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against -one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48007	After the vote on the previous proposal, it is perfectly normal for me to expect that the one that I am about to present at this time I don't know which time you from the Serbian public will be rejected, but that doesn't surprise me, because to accept what I'm about to propose would destroy everything on which there's something called what you're called, your organization. And if you were to adopt what I'm about to suggest, of course you would vote massively in the previous vote. That means you'd show enough consciousness, cheek and honor. I propose that Article 1 which says - In the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Article 11, item 3 after point 2) is added to point 2a) which states that it is necessary for the candidate to have a doctorial confidence in the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies and point 2) is that this law enters into force on the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger". It is an additional argument, as well as for candidates for ministers, will also be for candidates for MPs, which is that people who want to work in the state authorities, especially at the highest functions, the highest bodies, whether it's the government, parliament or the president of the state, should make that effort to go to their chosen doctor, get instructions for systematic examination and bring in before they can run for evidence that they're capable of physical, psychiatric, psychological, whatever you want, that there's no drug residue in their blood, that they're capable of not having any markings that would put them in the F category of patients or any other. It's something that would be completely normal in all normal countries. In the United States, the Senate and Congress may request medical examination of the current president while he is in office. Therefore, I call on you to vote no matter what I expect your reaction to be – yes, if we voted for it, and then there would be eee.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48008	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48009	The last of this part of the health code. Says Article 1 in the Law on the Selection of National MPs "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 32/2000, 57/2003 Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, 72/2003, 75/2003, 18/2004, 101/2005. Other laws 85/2005, 28/2011, etc. In Article 44(2), point (a) is added to point (b) of Article 44(2), which is – medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. It is clear to me that you will not vote for obvious reasons for this proposal, and this is what I have finished explaining this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48010	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the Duvan industry and the involvement in the then state summit at the head with then-Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48011	The President-in-Office of the National Assembly, according to a general assessment of privatisations during the DOS, or party of the former regime, was a mugging. In the opinion of Michael Hudson, editor at the International Conference on Research Reporting, $51 billion of the privatisation robbery was made out of Serbia. However, just a few examples of a major robbery of the former regime, Kolubara, Galenika, Agrobanka, Vojvodina Development Banka, Azotara, Stock Reserve, and the Nis tobacco industry damaged the budget by 387m euros. According to former plant workers, Nis, Philip Morris has never paid 387m euros at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, for which he bought the Duvanska Industry. Furthermore, they claim that the factory was sold below the price and that, on various grounds, it was damaged by 160m euros. In 2003. Mirko Cvetkovic signed a contract to sell 66.45% of social capital, and on behalf of the government was attended by Zoran Zivkovic, a known farmer in an attempt, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Bozidar Djelic. The actual value of the tobacco industry at the time of privatisation was over a billion euros. It should therefore form a survey committee to determine the factual circumstances surrounding the privatisation of the Nis tobacco industry and the involvement of the former regime's summit, it is suspected that, besides the others, Zoran Zivkovic, the then prime minister of the government, had deeply soiled his fingers in those malversions and had taken a high commission, after which his property map increased significantly. The honourable MPs, of course, suspect not only that Zoran Zivkovic took a high commission, but is one of the largest European robbers Bozidar Djelic who destroyed the banking sector in the Republic of Serbia, especially Beobank, Jugobank, the Belgrade Bank, Invest Bank. It is therefore extremely important for the National Assembly to form a committee of inquiry to present facts and circumstances related to possible malfeasances regarding the privatisation of the Nis tobacco industry and the involvement of Zoran Zivkovic, a known farmer in the attempt, in this affair, in order to raise the issue of his and not only his political but also criminal responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48012	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians, committed in the Ottoman Empire, between 1915 and 1922. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48013	I propose a resolution for several reasons. I did this for the first time on April 24, 2015, when it was 100 years since the beginning of genocide over the Armenians, which was done by the Ottoman Empire. I repeat, it has nothing to do with the current state of Turkey or the regime there or with citizens, but it is a matter of one historical bloody fact faced by many peoples, besides Armenians and we Serbs and others. It is the third or fourth year that you keep refusing to do this gesture for reasons that were described in the refusal to vote for the previous proposal I had, but it won't bother me to repeat that if someone has a motive founded and strong enough to fight injustice everywhere, then it's the Serbs and the citizens of Serbia because of what some of us have done here, and because of what's been done outside of us here and what's been done to the people around us from here. So, in addition to this argument that should be sufficient, I will give you another argument, that over 20 countries, including Russia's Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and some of the United States, have already passed that resolution, and of which their honor was collective, were individual people who voted for it, certainly in better shape than it will be when you vote against this proposal again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48014	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48015	Thank you very much. This has nothing to do with health, so you don't need to be afraid, but it has to do with another aspect of bad behavior that isn't just about this government. I repeat, I am seeking to amend a law that is older than 2000 and I think it is high time to make a common decision that will benefit all citizens of Serbia. Maybe some executives, the owners of some television stations, will be damaged for this, everyone else will be pleased. If so, if only the directors of some TV stations of pink, happy, less fortunate, semi-lucky or A, B, or whatever they are, GM, if only they are damaged, I think it will be a good act for all Serbian citizens. In fact, I propose that in the law supplementing the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, it should be amended, i.e. to add a Article 49a, which reads -- it is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit electoral lists for the transfer of election meetings, political messages and advertisements. Practically, to translate into Serbian, this decision would save between 50m and 100m euros each year when general elections are held, because these are also analyses and estimates of the money spent in these election years to record ads, political ads, that political propaganda programme, which is recorded not by a pair of political parties, of course, but by the citizens of Serbia, who are 20% legally kidnapped and 80% stolen from those same citizens. Adverts are recorded which, according to their own political, aesthetical, every other feature does not deserve to be placed except for that previous note that you view this programme as your own responsibility and end up writing – after this you must consult your doctor or pharmacist. There is no decent advertising that has been done in the last 15 years, no political options and that can answer that it is politically, aesthetically and economically justified. For those of you who are wondering – well, how will citizens come up with information about what the political party is proposing, I will reveal to you that there are dual shows on TV and that is where citizens should be familiar with candidate programmes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48016	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on the financing of political activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48017	In order for that first law to be adopted, then it must be changed, and to change the situation, the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political parties in which it should be deleted in Article 23(3) should also be adopted. - which enables the allocation of financial resources to advertise political parties, candidates for election lists. I think I've already made arguments, obviously your reaction is that you prefer that 50 to 100m euros in the election year, so let's make it a fourth, although Serbia has an extraordinary election on a regular basis, so every year or every other year, that those 50 to 100m don't go to treat sick children, adults, to rebuild schools, to educate some of whom education is obviously necessary for normal behavior in the 21st century, but you want these money to go away to television owners whose main motive is to become something that would better explain people who are dealing with medical pathology, so I don't want to deal with further explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48018	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts of the circumstances related to the privatisation of the tobacco industry in the then state summit headed by then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. You want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Atlagic spoke extensively about it, and as for those medical examinations he recommended to us, I must say that he did not pass them as a minister, nor as Prime Minister, nor as a potential soldier in 1978. I'll leave the next time, since there are similar supplements, to my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48020	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48021	The law on planning and editing of space and settlements is a necessary new law in the text I proposed a few years ago, which is practically mildly adjected text from 2003 when a serious law was passed in this area. This law would have been envisaged, probably now, but not implemented, but at that time it was necessary to carry out any wild construction, means that someone stabs the pitches on a plot that doesn't have all the necessary permits, or even a final permit to build, not just a building permit and everything else that goes, but a permit to start construction, to be prosecuted, and that a prison sentence was threatened. In 2004, the law was to be implemented. The then minister who dealt with the area, some say, then began to make something in his village a little illegal, and then the law was never even seen again, let alone implemented it. We have, of course, where you turn today, no matter what I say, the miserable opera shows we hear from the top of the government, that there's an open war on wild construction, that the shortest they get are building permits, that everything is clean. We have every day, even with these state, para-state, money and money-workers of Serbia's citizens, we have examples of that toothpick, I don't know where, in which part of Belgrade was, which is five or six meters wide. We have, let me repeat, another example, that I look at every morning, which is why it bothers me, not only visually, but also essentially, Nebojsina 8a, where there's a warrant to take down a year old. Both Vračar municipality and the city administration and ministers, this will especially cheer the president of the assembly, and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic was informed about it a year ago. I've asked three MPs questions. There's documentation absolutely for everyone. Of course, this facility is still being built, and I've also published a photo on some social networks where it's seen that it's from a ganger that's right next to that facility, hanging a cable that's insulated with a cord, which is clearly illegal and dangerous to life, across the sidewalk leads to an underground garage, and now it's going to be an underground drinking hall. About "Belgrade on Water" I will not tell you, it is your relationship with the eternal friends of the Serbian people, who were the first to recognise an independent Kosovo... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48022	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - five MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit for the work of the shareholders' insurance company "Such Insurance", Kragujevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48023	And that's one example of the crime of the current government, but I think among those who should be supporting their own proposal there's almost no one who can understand it. I think the proposal you received in writing is quite enough to spit on your cheek again and vote against.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48024	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the property of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48025	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very important that we get a wide and complete picture of how Zoran Zivkovic got rich, at a time when Serbian citizens were suddenly poor. Serbian citizens should finally know the truth about the "Vinograd" affair, citizens of Serbia have the right to know where he gets that much apartment on Vracar and all the other assets, and we know that he is known for his haughtiness and luxury. It should explain how he received from the state 41m dinars or 525,000 euros, according to that course, and from the grants and how he ensured that he would receive grants in that amount. So we have more than a reasonable suspicion that it is an abuse of a position with a very high degree of corruption. This committee of inquiry that I have just proposed needs to answer all these questions, because we know exactly who we're dealing with. We're dealing with a man who, I say, has been the prime minister of Serbia through very unfortunate circumstances in our recent political history. And then what was he doing? He introduced a state of emergency. During the state of emergency, he arrested tens and tens of thousands of citizens, which was founded, unfounded, mostly unfounded. So the question arises and the damages we've paid as a state for all those people who've been arrested. Next, he seduced censorship, seduced the full media darkness while he was prime minister. We knew him even when he was mayor of Nisha. While he was mayor of Nis, he was only known for one thing, which is that he called on the citizens of Nis not to pay bills for the utility, so they probably burned those bills in the container or, I don't know, I don't know, but in the barrel, right, thank you, Mr. Martinovic, and then when he came to power, he left them hanging, those citizens of Nis. Then he forgot to invite them not to pay bills for electricity, info and everything else. Just for the end, I might as well support his bill on mandatory medical examinations, but I'm afraid he'd be the first to pass all those medical examinations he's talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48026	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48027	Thank you. Dear MPs, all the inconsistencies of this environmental and water authority can be summed up and explained in the draft amending and supplementing the Energy Act. I sincerely hope that all of this publication has been carefully read by the UN team in Serbia, thank them once again, and it concerns the goals of sustainable development. So there is, among other things, what the objective of sustainable development is, when it comes to renewable energy. So, significantly increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. We have taken the obligation of the Energy Community to build new power plants of 1,000.92 megawatts by 2020. However, in the way we try to do so, avoiding wind parks, avoiding solar renewable energy sources and focusing only on water, we will never do so, and we will permanently destroy Serbia's water and water streams in protected areas. There is no justification for the construction of small hydropower plants, because they produce small amounts of electricity, and rivers are destroyed, among other things, are listed in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The profession says – if all 856 objects were to be executed, it would be provided up to 3.5% of the necessary electricity from renewable sources, but would permanently devast the rivers and the entire diversity and would have a devastating impact on even people's lives. That is why I call on fellow MPs, as the citizens of the Old Mountains, the locals of Zagubica, the Kopalniks fight for the waters of their region, to help conscious citizens of Serbia, to join this fight, to protect the water streams in protected areas, and especially to appeal to MPs from those parts, and to forget to encourage them from those parts, to work on the water streams from their environments, and to all vote together on a law prohibiting the construction of small hydropower plants in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48028	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48029	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the title says, I believe that the Assembly should set up a polling committee that would establish and give a full picture of the unintended spending of funds and the great affairs of former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas, and currently the head of this sad group across us. The matter is extremely serious, given that after his term as mayor, he left the city of Belgrade in debt of more than a billion euros. Gilas tried to challenge the claim in public, saying the debt is actually 400m or 500m euros, which is also a huge sum, but on that occasion he forgot to include city public utility companies, as well as institutions whose founder, Belgrade City. Then, the city's municipalities, all leading to more than a billion-euro figure, more specifically, more than 1.1 billion euros. It is the money of the citizens of Belgrade, which I am sure could have been spent much better. I'm going to ask you how many kindergartens, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, parks, roads could be built for that money? If you're wondering where the debt came from, the veil from where. Remember the affair of underground containers when the city was damaged by sixm euros, an affair of reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar, where the city was also damaged by sixm euros. You remember that white man, who was also arrested for the affair. Then the tram procurement affair, 53m euros in the city's budget was damaged, the Buslus affair, the Pazl-town affair, finally, the bridge affair on Ada. So, an affair for the affair as a manner of authorities of DS and Dragan Gilas as he led Belgrade's city and nearly destroyed Belgrade. I would like to remind you that the city government of the SNS has reduced the debt by only one term, or halved the debt, as well as that there are no new responsibilities. So for all these reasons, I think it is necessary to investigate all these affairs as a consequence of the disastrous power of Dragan Gilas and DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48030	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the dots -- a bill on amendments to the law on the capital. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48031	Thank you. I will speak unitedly in the interest of saving time, all three laws that are interlinked, on amendments to the Capital City Act, the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Local Self-Government. We proposed these laws more than half a year ago, but also a package of interrelated laws, and the aim of these laws is to increase the personalisation of policy, i.e. increased responsibility of elected representatives, in this case local self-government towards citizens. We are very pleased to see that public debate on this important issue has been stepped up in the post-proposal period, and that citizens' demands for election laws to be amended have increased. For this reason, we reiterate the support of initiatives, i.e. organisations gathered around the initiative "I choose whom I choose", which all over Serbia advocate electoral legislation in line with the principles set out above. The current laws give too much power to political parties, in running and electing the president of municipalities and mayors, because they are not directly elected, but after the elections, as a result of political agreements within municipalities, or cities, which is often not in line with voters' wishes. The direct election of the president of the municipality and the mayor would increase their responsibility to the citizens, i.e. encourage greater concern for their needs and interests. This kind of election would reduce the independence of the president of municipalities and mayors from the tops of political parties and organisations, as they are nominated and indirectly elected by the councils of municipalities and cities under the applicable laws. The introduction of the principle of increasing the responsibility of elected representatives towards citizens is also supported by elections for the National Assembly, so we advocate, or the introduction of a mixed electoral system, proportionally majorityal, or a proportionate system with the possibility of preferential voting. With such a system of rapsorships, elected MPs from certain lists depend not on the order on those lists but on the number of votes citizens would give for individual candidates. That's what I'd say. someone the party summit put last on the list could have entered parliament if the citizens recognized that it represented their interests and received more votes than the party colleagues who were in front of him on the list, or on the list. By amending the electoral law, we could also ensure that all parts of Serbia are presented in the Assembly, which is unfortunately not the case now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-30-0.u48032	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – five. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points -- a bill on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to an affair related to former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented -- a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the Serbia's Luttria affair related to Gjorge Vukadinovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the property of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to an affair related to the former province secretary for sport and youth, Marinik Tepic, and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affair related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and Storm. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affair related to the former president of the Smederjevska Palanka Assembly, Radoslav Milojcic, and the non-intentional spending of funds. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's committee of inquiry to determine the facts and circumstances relating to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, certain extremist organisations of individuals. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to Sergei Trifunović and the humanitarian organisation – Support life. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to Balša Bozovic and related persons in the property purchase affair in "Belša na Voda". Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia poll committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and the connection with foreign intelligence organisations and spy services, proposed by Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting forward a vote on the proposal by Aleksandr Markovic - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the bankruptcy affair related to the former economy minister Sasa Radulovic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the proposal by Aleksandr Markovic to supplement the agenda The proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, Radoslav Milojčić and the unintended spending of funds. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia poll committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the Indji municipality, Goran Jesic, and the unintended spending of funds. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia poll committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to Balša Bozovic and related persons in the purchase of real estate in "Belš Božovic on Water". Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the Lutrija Serbia affair related to Gjorge Vukadinovic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote Mark Atlagic's proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's survey board, in order to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to the former Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, and the unintended spending of funds. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's survey board, in order to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and the connection with foreign intelligence agencies and spy services. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and "Storm". Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the false state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the false state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's survey board, to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to the former rural sports and youth secretary, Marinika Tepic, and the non-intentional spending of funds. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly's survey committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to Nenad Konstantinovic and the former organisation "Resistance". Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure, which he proposed to carry out a joint principle search on: Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police; Proposal for a Law on the Security of Traffic on Roads; Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on Criminal Action; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law; Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? No, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the act session, I would like to put the draft agenda in general. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Fire Protection Act, which was submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law on critical infrastructure, submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of weapons, devices and ammunition submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law on voluntary fire, submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which was filed by the Government; 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which was filed by the Government; 13. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data submitted by the Government; 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures submitted by the Government; 15. Proposal for a law on free legal aid submitted by the Government; 16. Proposal for a law on lobbying, submitted by the Government; 17. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts submitted by the Government; 18. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 19. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 20. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been filed by the State's major prosecutors; 21. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been filed by the State's chief prosecutor; 22. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the High Court in Belgrade, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 23. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Nis, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 24. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the post of President of the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 25. A proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Thank you for your work today. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall. I also apologize for the 45-minute delay, for the urgent obligations both ministers had. The Home Secretary will join us in a few minutes, because his meeting is not yet over. We are moving to work on a set agenda, not a common principle and single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 24 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Minister Nela Kuburovic, with his co-workers from the competent ministries. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2) and Article 192, 193, 201 and 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and unified search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) I give my word to Minister Nelli Kuburovic. Here you go.
