ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51334	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 74 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of members present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 84 MPs present, i.e. there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, recently the European Parliament adopted a resolution and an amendment proposed by one of the parliamentarians from Slovenia, which is that Serbia should declare itself before joining the EU on the genocide in Srebrenica, i.e. to admit that there was genocide in Srebrenica. This fact should be enough for us to immediately suspend EU membership negotiations, because simply, the Serbian people must not allow the EU to view Serbia as genocide. So, as soon as the President, Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are clear on this, without seeking the comfort of the Government and the ruling set out that the European Parliament's report is non-binding, including everything that the European MPs and bureaucrats have erased and told us about Kosovo, that without recognising Kosovo's independence, there is no membership in the EU, it is equally non-binding, and we all know, even the sparrows of Serbia's branch know that it is the only, basic and most important condition for Serbia to join the EU. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the MP's question to the Ministry of the Interior, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic – when will he plead on Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic? Is it possible that it is not enough that SRS MPs have found that they are involved in drug trafficking, in crime and smuggling in Novi Pazar and even in discussing the potential liquidation of the president of the SRS and the British Embassy? When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia take more immunity from Rasim Ljajic? When are we gonna talk about this? Why is Rasim Ljajic so important to the ruling coalition? So, don't wait for him to have mercy alone and after 18 years of continuous stay in power, he resigns himself or when he gets bored with politics. Let's deal with his affairs while he's in power. And, on top of all that, he's still pushing his finger around the Serbian people and the official institutions of the Republic of Serbia when he's making a coalition at the Bosniak National Council, i.e. The Bosniak national minority council with Sulejman Ugljanin, which openly says Serbia is a fascist creature and will fight it. So, the Serbian government's Deputy Prime Minister, elected on the SNS list, elected Esada Djudžu as president of the Bosnian National Minority Council and made a coalition with Sulejman Ugljan, and this Esad Djujo, except for saying that Muslims had to add ić and Evic to their last names because, yes, Serbian occupations and never called themselves apart from these nebuloses, recently announced Serbia's map without Kosovo and Metohija, the AP Vojvodina and Sandzak, and presented Serbia's dismembered in 2025, and these two provinces and the Raska region or Sandzak as an independent state. Well, it's a scandal. The ruling party, the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, the president of the Republic must not only condemn this as soon as possible, but react that this is not happening in the official institutions of the Republic of Serbia. You know, how can we fight the Cypriot separatists and watch to protect our interests in Kosovo and Metohija, when in Serbia, in the official institutions of the Republic of Serbia, we have the same separatists, if not worse?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51336	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51337	Dear Vice President, my question will be addressed to the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic and to the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, and this is about convicted war criminal Vojislav Seselj, who sits in these benches. And this is the only parliament in Europe where a man with a judicial verdict from the UN war crimes tribunal sits in these benches. I hope that sometimes I will get an answer to this question, and that the citizens will say their answer to some of the next choices that will happen when they are due. Of course, I want to say because of the citizens of Serbia, what is the facelessness and the haranga that is being led against Vice President Rasim Ljajic. These lies and these lies that are being told, of course, citizens know, well judge who and how and who is fighting for what policies. I do a little analysis of what Vojislav Seselj says, and so does the younger Seselj, you know, the splinter doesn't fall far from the log. Let's see, first of all, Vojislav Seselj gives a lie to Rasim Ljajic, asks the MUP question, gets an answer from the minister, unequivocal. When he sees it no longer drinking water, there's another story that there's a fight between the police minister and the police director, and he gets an unequivocal answer, then there's still a science thing going on. A magazine is invented where Vojislav Seselj reads the title of the magazine in bad English, where he invents affairs and does not find it public either. Since there are no more echoes, there are spies, embassies, there's a British embassy coming and there's an imaginary affair. Of course, then an additional argument is being made about the liquidation of a man who is past. He is a plus-squamperfect in Serbia's politics. So it doesn't drink water either. Now I expect Inspector Megre to be involved in the game, so, of course, it's a little bit that the British have joined, the French, the Megre and the others will come and, of course, Sherlock Holmes and all the other unfounded things will come. Finally, of course, it must end with the Turks. I expect he will appear in the Balli-Bag game, perhaps the Sultania of Hurem or perhaps even Suleiman the Great. Of course, the amount of falsehood and lies, which would be said in the city of Sarajevo, where Vojislav was born, where I lived with him for a while, that dog wouldn't eat with butter. That's what Serbian citizens know very well, and that's why it surprises me that one doctor of science, such as Vojislav Seselj... He doctored the truth out of universal defense and social self-defense, but at a time of socialism it was a serious science, not these current PhDs. I appreciate his doctorate, because it was also a serious science back then, and I don't argue with him, but I can't believe that one such man can fall on such a low branch. I can only say next. You know, those who invest in a man of the past, it's a bad investment. Why is it a bad investment? He's not giving the results. They hire you to do something, you don't, you're a bad investment. You know why? Your time is up. Serbia is different, you haven't changed. Serbia is moving forward, going to Europe, and you are constantly talking about one policy, something that has already been overcome for Serbia. I hope that you will eventually come up with an attitude that will be quite different. By the way, I don't expect you in parliament anymore, and these are your last ticks. Be assured that you have done Serbia much harm with your policy and I hope that you will no longer sit in this House. Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51338	My friend Seselj, he can't. In this part of the session, there is no right to a replica in the Rules of Procedure. Not in this part of the session. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51339	Thank you very much. I periodically ask one question which is a fundamental question and, unfortunately, although it does not pass much time from one question to another, the question becomes increasingly relevant, and that is the question that all other questions are being asked – where are we going as a state and society? The issue becomes even more current especially after yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister not to exclude the military option in Kosovo. He's hammering himself with a gun. In fact, he's more of an empty gun threat, like we haven't learned a 90s lesson and we don't know what the situation is on the ground. The question arises, I ask her and the Minister of Information, are such statements perhaps trying to cover up various machinations, as well as perhaps direct investment of public money in private interests? This is a practical match for the purchase of Copernicus, owned by someone very close to the Niš SNS regime, and the purchase of that same man, his company, First Television and O2 TV, and it turns out that Copernicus is more valuable because it was bought for 195m euros than together by the First and O2 TV. So, on the one hand, we have a clinking weapon, and on the other hand, just a few days ago, the Prime Minister called on Serbian citizens to invest in themselves, because it would be more than likely to return to them. She also cited her example, as she sacrificed herself and lived abroad. She finished some third-rate universities abroad, and I can set an example, because I also studied at the best university abroad. How did this government get back? By calling me off as ambassador to Indonesia earlier, although I had spent time and invested and committed to spend and work in the Indonesian presidency and had contacts that no one had in that country by strangers. So you send one wrong message. Why, for example, is he not investing, why am I asking the Prime Minister's question, to turn the state and government more into the talents and education of those people we really need? If Serbia's strategic goal is to join the EU, and we have seen from the latest statements that it is not and that it is not giving up, why as other countries in the region do we not support the schooling of those students who want to learn more about how the EU works? For example, at the college of Europe in Bruges or in Natalina near Warsaw. Let's say that one of Macedonia is funding three such students each year, and the answer from the Ministry of European Integration was that they prefer shorter programmes, seminars, which is no wonder than those who, I suppose, have come to diplomacy in an easy way, and they don't want to deepen into what they're doing. Those are my questions for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51340	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51341	I thank you, Chairman. As so far, I will ask questions concerning the problems of our citizens, with an emphasis on southeastern Serbia, in mountainous and mountainous areas, in our villages. A particular issue with the Ministry of Energy, since local self-government at the request of citizens in their midst has the need to build public lighting, build a new network, low voltage, and in order to do so, they need and seek technical consent from competent institutions, where there is electricity. When they apply, local self-governments are then conditioned by the electricity distribution that they have to give that power grid, or that network, to own electricity and thus, if they don't, they can't do it for the citizens of that power grid, or build public lighting. If they accept such a request, then local self-government violates the Budgetary System Act, violates the Public Property Act and will have problems all, or those who manage local self-government. I ask the competent ministry, since the power distribution is being conducted, that the Energy Act is so defined, and my question is to find the possibility that there is no responsibility or leadership of the municipality, if, at the request of the citizens, it wants to do a low voltage network or public lighting in some areas where it has not been so far and to provide better living conditions for all these citizens, and normally that no one has the responsibility and that electricity is respected, because they are doing so. That's one question. Second question of the same to the Ministry of Energy. In particular, the problem of Serbia's southeast is that the bad power grid, poor installation, ran out of banners, which means that it was done in the 1980s, in the 1990s, that the voltage was low, that in some areas in southeastern Serbia and 110, 120 volts. I think that's where we need to do the reconstruction of the power grid, the installation, because it takes all citizens, all of us living in southeastern Serbia, to live in rural areas, to have the same opportunities, the same power, because the same way we pay for that electricity, the same way that those who have good voltage, that is, excellent voltage, and that way these people tomorrow can provide themselves with the conditions that they can do some private work. We have some rural areas in most of eastern Serbia, where, for example, we have the municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Knjižvac, Bolovac, Gajin Han and other such municipalities, where villages are old, where the low voltage network was done in the 1980s, that nothing was done there and that the state, as they say, is alarming. My question is -- when are we going to get into the process of doing a complete reconstruction of the electrical grid in southeastern Serbia in our areas that I have now stated, and that all our citizens living there have the same possibility that tomorrow, when a man wants to deal with some agricultural production and wants to include, say, a mill hammerer, that he can do it, because it's so weak a voltage that it's not possible? The same big problem is the bandits that have worn out, who are old and I would like us to do it as soon as possible, that the people in southeastern Serbia have the opportunity to continue living there and even if someone is moving in because nature has given everything, there are opportunities to deal with agriculture, a healthy environment and now in this way to strengthen and to provide better conditions, and normally there must be Internet communication, because we all want to go, as we say, into a better future. One more thing, I have to say something commendable for the people who work in Electrodistribution, the people who work on these jobs, these are tough jobs, that in 2014, when it was a big winter, when it was big snow, when they were ice-breaking, then there was a big problem, there was a fallout of both high voltage networks and a low voltage network, where with the support of our Army, with the support of everyone, with the support of all people who work in Electrodistribution and Zajecar and Nis and the surrounding, that they managed to put everything into function and thus provide conditions for...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51342	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51343	My question goes to the address of Serbian Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic and concerns the role of Tony Blair and his institutes in Serbian political life and engagements now confirmed by the infamous Tony Blair's involvement in the work, functioning and editing of jobs in the Serbian government over the past few years. So one day the topic was updated by Blair's Institute for Strategic Relations calling a competition for two highly-positioned advisory posts in the Serbian government to deal with strategic projects and public relations. Whatever it is, it is reportedly this morning that the ad was taken off Blair's site, but the point is that there is no excuse or understanding can be, that the government of Serbia directly or indirectly and any official of the Serbian state, present, former or future, engaged Tony Blair, his house on anything, any business related to the state of Serbia, given the well-known and infamous role Tony Blair played during the bombing, i.e. before and during the bombing, aggression against SRJ and Serbia in 1999. He was then, not only Prime Minister of Great Britain, but he was one of the most prominent advocates of bombing and brutal bombing and even more brutal than it was done. He complained that it wasn't more cruel. Sam himself boasted that he had persuaded Bill Clinton to enter the NATO intervention operation and also advocated land intervention in Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia. So there is no person in the world alive who has done more evil and treated Serbia and the Serbian people worse. So I'm asking what's the brains, which is a higher interest that could have run the government and the government to hire Tony Blair. What I'm asking is, I'm not asking the president of the Serbian government by accident, not only because she's the country's formal first political personality, if we know that it's not in reality, but because she said yesterday that the business, or arrangement with Tony Blair and his institute, was done by the previous government, when they founded so-called. "Diliver Unc" in the context of Alexander Vukic's cabinet, when he was prime minister and she continued the practice. So, some advice, some strategic advice in coordination, allegedly and relations within the government, is what our government and current and previous government, so Alexander Vukic and Ana Brnabic, are doing with Tony Blair. Moreover, particularly controversial, says Mrs Brnabic, it should be known that the engagement is not paid by the citizens of the budget, i.e. The money is not coming from Serbia's budget. Tony Blair doesn't work for the marbles, and that's somewhere and it's posted in the meantime that Tony Blair's engagement here is paid for with money, or the UAE state. So, the UAE pays Tony Blair to advise we do not know what the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the government of Aleksandr Vukic and now Ana Brnabic. I am simply asking for official written confirmation from Mrs. Brnabic – is it true and what is the nature of this engagement, as I said, and does she consider it appropriate that such engagement exists, given that the infamous, as I said, repeat on purpose, the role Tony Blair played and played? When you're doing high-level government jobs, you sometimes have to meet with people you don't like, but this isn't about it, if these other representatives are official countries you have to have relations with. Tony Blair ain't no United Kingdom official. Tony Blair is a private figure and lobbyist of the world's voice, which performs lobbying services, mainly for some problematic Central Asian and similar regimes. What are the real services that made our government estimate that Tony Blair is a necessary and desirable partner for the Serbian government? It is something that is not only a matter of taste, fitness or simply belonging, but rather something that, I would say, deeply humiliates all citizens of Serbia regardless of what option they belong to, whether they vote, whether they do not vote, whether they like red, green, yellow, wages or whatever. So, in that sense, I believe that most colleagues on the other hand are thinking the same thing or very much about this engagement, and that is why I think that as a national MP, as well as the public of Serbia, an explanation by Ana Brnabic should come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51344	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51345	A question for the President of the Republic, Prime Minister and Foreign Minister – why is there no reaction from the state of Serbia to the behaviour of Montenegrin authorities? A new ban on Montenegro's entry to Serbian university professor Dr Dejan Mirovic is just another in a series of anti-Serbian moves by Montenegrin authorities. This is particularly pointless because Mirovic was born in Montenegro and visited the family there. Following the arrest of Nebojka Medovic and the cancellation of the podgorje assembly's decisions from 1918 on unification with Serbia, what's next? Why is the state of Serbia silent? Why is there no response from the State Department? Will the foreign ministry continue to decide not to leave Branko Milic to the Montenegrin public order authorities because if he returns to Spuž, how much longer will he survive there? There is no other explanation than that there is special relations between Aleksandar Vukic and Milo Djukanovic, but to the harm of the Serb people in Montenegro. It should also be noted that all intellectuals who are banned from entry here represent the opposition parties. A question for the Constitutional Court – when will it respond to an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the disbanding local parliaments in Kula, Kladov and Doljevac, which has submitted 40 MPs to the opposition? Will they wait for these illegal local elections to pass and remain silent as in the case of anti-constitutional Brussels agreements and retirement? We regrettably read the news that an SNS actress was attacked in Luciani. Dvori and the Alliance for Serbia condemn every settlement in politics and ask the police to respond adequately and identify the attackers, if this information is at all correct. We wouldn't want this to be a fictional story for a new media propaganda opposition. As long as you, SNS, are going to use women for your dirty work and represent the family people of the Dvora, as thugs? Let's get those attackers. Were those attackers found harassing people during the presidential oath, and you can see who they were, harassing students and journalists? We also appeal to the authorities to calm tension in society, which was created by their violence and the labelling of political opponents, and we urge them to withdraw their batinian forces that cruise the Lucians, who are otherwise from Vojvodina... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51346	Hey, buddy, ask a question. (Ivan Kostic: I ask the question. No, you're appealing to things that don't happen, like they really happened in fact just, maybe in your heads. (Ivan Kostic: You didn't get a chance to interrupt an MP while asking a question. I had a chance. So ask a question about events that really happened, not what you thought or dreamed happened. You've got two minutes left. Please ask for a word. (John Kostic: Give me back my time.) Ask for the first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51347	I urge all citizens of Luciana to come out without fear on 16 December and to vote in favour of the Alliance for Serbia, the Alliance for Dragacheva. Because of all this work you do in parliament and for the political persecution of everyone who thinks differently from you, politicians, intellectuals, athletes, businessmen, we call on citizens to go out for a big folk protest Saturday, at 6:00 p.m., on a plateau outside the Faculty of Philosophy. The issue for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, which we have been asking for six months now, and the distinguished Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic does not intend to answer this very important question for our workers in Russia. Please answer us as far as it has arrived with a proposal for a bilateral memorandum, which should be drawn up by the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and delivered to the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation, which would define our proposal for a solution to the problem of the extension of working time, i.e. working visas for a year to all our citizens working on Russian Federation territory? We remind you that there is already a goodwill of partners from Russia and Home Secretary Mr Koljokovljce to address this problem. I hope that the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia have a clear view of how much the problem of working permits poses an obstacle to stronger economic integration between Serbia and Russia and that you will, accordingly, do everything to Mr Stefanovic, to write and deliver this memo to colleagues from the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51348	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51349	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to try to ask one question, I hope that at least this time I won't cause any division between us. I ask the question to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy, Mr Antic. It is the business of NIS, the oil industry of Serbia, which, through the state agreement of Serbia with the Russian Federation, is practically set in the majority package "Gasprom", but remains more than clear that the very serious interests of our society are directly dependent on the functioning and operation of the company. While we here every day, in Parliament, break our hands between ourselves, as we solve problems that are over our heads, while the sky shoots at which we stand, next to us pass, they take place, the processes of which sooner or later we will be ashamed, if together we don't put an end to them, and then we look at what's really going on here. I don't want to bother anyone with this at the time by explaining the motives of the LDP that we were against the way the NIS was privatized. Not against the arrival of Gazprom or anyone else, but exclusively against the way NIS was privatised. Here's why we were against it. Meanwhile, 540,000 tonnes of oil imports to Serbia have increased, and the direct consequence of import oil is in fact the uncontrolled exploitation of our wells. If they are extremely exploited, the wells dry, and the oil that reaches the cardboard spill can no longer reach the dried well, but go somewhere else. Do you know how much higher the percentage of derivatives NIS sells through intermediaries today, i.e. It's a trader, it's a straight shot. Why does it matter? Because we're still shareholders in NIS. That's how Serbia is damaged. In the end, what's very important and what I want to talk about and I think I'm gonna be boring. I equally opposed this when I opposed the privatisation of NIS in the way it was agreed between Kostunica and Putin. One of the country's most extensive investment projects, worth 300m euros right now, is just a front for a brutal robbery with which none of us and those I ask the question has anything to do with it. Today the Wolf thinks of Jarinj, of Brnjak, of the army, we stand here in front of you, you wage your wars with us, and in front of your eyes is a robbery of the largest investment project. Three hundred million euros is worth a project to build, plant, oil processing plant in the Pancheva Refinery. Why was the person responsible for the management of the project fired by SBI? Why did those who run this project from the Panchevo Refinery set themselves up for those who were monitoring the project and at the same time realising it? What makes the percentage of domestic subcontractors drop dramatically? You know what that means. What is it for our factory in Serbia when it does not get a job making construction in the Panchevo Refinery, but the business gets a Slovenian company with an offer of eightm euros, with no personnel potential, it does the job, which is why there is a delay. They actually got the job of the pipe, the construction of the pipeline. The Hungarian company gets a construction job, the German company gets an isolation job, it's a direct damage to only three contracted jobs, past any tender procedures and laws, listen to Martinovic, 10m euros. You didn't steal them, didn't steal them, didn't see what was going on under our noses. Who's doing surveillance at NIS? He's in charge of surveillance at the NIS. He's also an advisor to the Director General, and they're not hiding it. That's what the NIS site says. You know why I know it has nothing to do with you? It no longer has anything to do with who it was reportedly able to be, and was in New Serbia's position, Velimir Ilic. The man who runs the Supervisory Board needs to control this, is the advisor to the director he needs to control, the artery of our country's economy, in front of our noses. I ask you to pay adequate attention to what is happening now in all day-to-day engagements. At least on one plan we don't have to embarrass ourselves. I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51350	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51351	A question for the Prime Minister – when will you provide us with information on how the corporate bodies of Telekom Srbija, the Assembly of Shareholders, the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board have decided and criteria for determining the price of the purchase of Copernicus of 200m euros? This is the right of all citizens of Serbia, because we are the largest number of us in Serbia and small shareholders, and the state of Serbia is the majority shareholder of this stock company and what we received through the public as information and arguments, making 200m euros for cable distributor Copernicus the first argument that they have 200,000 users and that it is the usual price as they then told us 1000 euros per user, which then confirmed the price of 200m euros. Later we see information that RATEL, hence the official telecommunications agency on its website, has clear information that the total number of cable network users is 1,700,000 people in Serbia and that Copernicus takes up 3% of the market. The fourth is on the market, which means there are 51,000 users, according to clear information. Which means that according to these criteria, which we are told from Telekom itself, 1,000 euros per user. According to the RATEL criteria, the real price would be around 50m euros. The second parameter that is more frequently used when considering acquisitions is the issue of the 2017 Copernicus balance sheet, which is available, which is the report that works with one and a half million euros net profit and that they have expressed EBITDA to 6.2m euros. Generally in this area of telecommunications and information technologies is that the multiplier to determine values relative to the EBITDA is between seven and ten. Even if it was the top ten, the value of Copernicus could not go above 60m euros. What difference does it make up to 200 million euros? Nearly 150m euros when you take both of these parameters. It is therefore important that the Prime Minister, out of responsibility to us MPs, who we should control the work of a stock society, because we are rooting for its greater efficiency. We were accused of being lobbyists of some other companies competing on this market. No, we are lobbyists of an important state system that needs to focus this surplus value on its own development so that all Serbian citizens have a more modern, more quality service in the area of communication. That is why we are struggling to get to the truth and again, the citizens of Serbia are getting credible information, because they have every right to this information because they are minority shareholders. Another question for Minister Sinisha Mali, Finance Minister, when will we get information after I have not received that answer in the budget debate, now I officially request information on the final accounts of the "Belgrade on Water" company? Once again, Serbia is 32% co-owner of this company, the majority owner is 68%. No matter how minority we are, of course we have the right to gain insight into the final accounts and the right to share the profits from this company's business. I ask – what has been the profit of this company in the last four years and has one dinar been transferred to the budget of the Republic of Serbia from the business of this company? We saw in the budget for next year there are no plans on that. The third question, also for the finance minister, did not give me the answer to that question last time, so I now officially and expect the written answer, which is, I will remind him that he has promised to publish, by the end of 2018, the agreement on the concession of the airport "Nikola Tesla". So, we have less than a month left for that deadline, I call on him to publish the contract, to see the concession agreement, and since for the next year in the budget we have not seen a plan to plan those 417m euros that were due to be paid by the end of the year, that means that we have 30 days left for the concessionaire to pay a part of that money, so 417m euros on the Republic of Serbia's budget. I ask the Minister of Finance - when it will happen and I ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51352	A colleague of Marjana Dragaš has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, I would like to ask, within this framework, two questions that could be said to be on the route of the village, the victims, the rebuilding of the state and its strengthening. Namely, the first question I want to ask concerns the Ministry of Agriculture and the question of how much greater production capacity is possible for our agricultural production, not only for the domestic market and domestic needs, but also for exports. When I say this, first of all, I mean exporting to the Russian market. Namely, why is the possibility of the Russian market being open to Serbian agricultural products being used to a greater extent after the introduction of sanctions on the west towards this friendly country? We have land, we have water, we have climate, but I don't seem to have the capacity. We haven't yet, I think, taken advantage of the opportunities we're offered. We even had, as we know, abuses from irresponsible producers that always have significant and great consequences. Is there a possibility that the objectives set in the Ministry of Agriculture should be improved, that production should be increased, that large producers and privates should be encouraged, as well as that cooperatives should be established to ensure that higher agricultural production that would satisfy, not only our country's needs, but also ensure quality placement on the Russian market? Can Serbia at least use Belarus, for example, to employ its capacities in the coming period and make significant contributions in this area? Also, my question is, have we been able to miss our chance again? I think it's still late. I will remind you, for example, that during this time, the Russians have significantly strengthened their agricultural production. They focused on planting new seedlings, such as fruits or apples, were able to achieve with their agricultural institutes the creation of new types of agricultural products and employed their science. I think that all these capacities we have, too, need to be directed more and more to encourage them to achieve new values and new products in that sense. In general, I think when we are fighting to strengthen the state of Serbia, which is an unquestionably great success of this government, I think when we are fighting to open new factories, new businesses to create new jobs, it is not at all controversial, it is not questionable and it is very good. But our development policy must be equally focused on developing and strengthening agriculture and strengthening the village. In that sense, we have and we can give significant incentives for employment in the country, and it seems to me that we will also help those objectives that are set on a significant and fundamental topic, which is to restore the population of the Serbian state. Our orientations for strengthening Serbia, therefore, must not go in one direction only, but this time I will mention one synergy of objectives, strength and interests that can strengthen it in this sense in the next period. As part of this, of course, we should welcome and underline that Serbia's strengthening on the international agenda is something that contributes largely to all of this, so I will remind you that Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, a while ago, is fighting for a strong Serbia on the international agenda, has promised that less than a hundred countries will be those countries that recognise so-called. the state of Kosovo, and the trend will continue. We are present at such a single process. Of course, all that is happening as a hickey to the state of Serbia at this time, in fact, shows the combined interest of some who consider Serbia to be guilty only when it defends itself. It is necessary to protect, in that sense, the state of Serbia and the Serb people and at the same time within that framework, in order to defend what is the face of the Serb people and the Serb man. I think it is a significant second question that I would like to refer to the Ministry of Labour and Combat Affairs in terms of whether it is in concrete plan of this ministry to mark all the sites where the Serb population was killed in its fight for freedom?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51354	You're bringing an end to your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51355	We marked a hundred years of World War I, and we had a time when we reminded ourselves of all our victims and the deaths of the Serb population in World War II. For example, last night, the Serbian Radio Television showed... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51356	Thank you, colleague Dragash. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51357	I thank the chairman. First, apropo Tony Blair, and I have a question about that, for the Ministry of Justice – which authority freed the convicted Tony Blair, Bill Clinton and all convicted of Serbia's criminal bombing in 1999? What authority was that? Which power freed 2,108 Shipatarian terrorists from the so-called. Kosovo Liberation Army? What government did that? Is that the same authority, is that the same political option today supported by this particular Djordje Vukadinovic and those of his Alliance for Serbia? It's the same political option. Second, my question was addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, and in light of the obviously politically motivated attack in Luciani on SNS activist Nada Jovanovic, a candidate for the councilwoman in the local elections from the list "Alexandar Vukic – Because I love Lucane". I must say right away, Mr. Chairman, that unlike these hypocrites from the false Patriotic Association of the Dwri, we do not relativate the attacks. On the same day, everyone condemned the attack on Borko Stefanovic. We are not hypocrites like them to say - we condemn the attack, and then we question whether the attack happened at all and whether it was a misdemeanor. I hope the interior ministry will be as effective when it comes to this case as when it comes to Borka Stefanovic. So my question is, were the perpetrators discovered and arrested, and the potential employers of this disgusting attack, because the woman who was 64 years old, manically attacked from behind, shoved into the dark part of the hallway in the apartment building, and then brutally beaten, while she was sharing party material? So she was handing out flyers and getting beat up. Why am I pointing this out, Chairman? Why do I point out the special employers of this attack? Because the attacker, the younger man, was at stake, as he beat her all the time, threatened to kill all the wolves and to kill his mother, Vukic, and therefore it is clear that it was a politically motivated attack and that the hate speech, which they have been carrying out for months, was unfortunately bearing fruit and unfortunately resulted in the field. I ask you now to stop spreading hatred, stop creating an atmosphere of fear in Serbia, stop creating an atmosphere of persecution, lynch and violence in Serbia. I warn you not to do this, because nothing good can produce it. Nothing good can come of it, and the consequences can be dangerous. What have you been doing these last few days? What are you doing these last days and what are you doing here in Parliament? Is it necessary for someone to die in Serbia to come to power? Is that an idea, is that the goal? Is it a price for someone to die in Serbia to come to power? Here, I'm telling you, no one's gonna die and we're gonna stop you from doing that. Don't do that, we won't let you do that. Serbia, in 2018, is not your Serbia, in which the killings of political inexperiences, in which violence was everyday, is not that Serbia. Because Gilas is nervous because he failed to buy with School two televisions, "O2" and "First", his business combination failed and he is now nervous and now needs someone to get hurt in Serbia. Now life in Serbia needs to stop, now it has to stop, because his business plan has failed, and now someone needs to get hurt. We are very little that we have all this in Kosovo and Metohija, we have few other problems and other pressures from the environment, and now we need to create chaos in Serbia, to make Gilas rich again, to re-create monopolies, to put it back in his pockets. He has little 500m euros in income, he has little 26 companies and companies he has, he has little 24m euros in real estate, he has few apartments, he has little business space, he has few locals, he has little property. Or because Jeremic doesn't know how to get out of this corrupt affair with these white-world thieves, Patrick Ho and the others. Because he can't explain how he got $764.000 at the expense of his company, "Vuk Jeremic PR Consuling Agency". Because he can't explain how and why he got $1 million at the expense of his Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development. Because he can't explain whether or not he got 200,000 euros from the Qatar embassy in Berlin. That's the subject. And now let's create chaos in Serbia, let's cause bloodshed, just to get them out of their affairs. I'm telling you, we're not gonna let you do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51358	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Security. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Nebojsa Tomic, Director of the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, Mirjana Cojbašić and Irena Injac, senior advisers in the Budget Sector at the Ministry of Finance. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51359	The arrangement of the Central Register for Social Security and Higher Education will contribute to raising the quality and standard of life of Serbian citizens. In the past two days, we have all been able to see how the behaviour of those who led this country to the situation that Serbia was on the verge of economic collapse. The budget for 2019 is an indication that we will continue with reforms that improve life in Serbia, which is why we suffer daily attacks, insults and threats of those who have left us with the burden and debt that we pay back. Remember only the thousands of euros they promised us, each of us, and in fact they filled their pockets to the point of unconsciousness. All these goals and plans are not just empty promises, as Serbia today represents one of the five fastest growing economies in Europe. In the world, we are represented by the serious and responsible government, led by President Vukic, the government that cares about the future of our country, and I am pleased to say that I am proud of all the results achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51360	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51361	Mr. Arsic, a member of 107 has been injured, the harsh dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. One of the previous speakers called the SRS a hired party. You know, when someone deals with politics of interest, when they're just on their own, it's in his mind, so everyone deals with politics for those reasons. When someone's been in power for 18 years, in all possible furniture from October 5th to this day, and he doesn't mind criticizing the same government on October 5th that they were sitting in, so we know what they're talking about and what kind of people they're talking about. You know, if someone can be elected on one election list, DS specifically, and then make a government with parties that were on the exact opposite election list, you know that there are no policies, no morals, no honors, that it's just an interest. The other MPs comment on the election results and predict the SRS election results. You know, the SRS is proud that it always went out on its own in the republican elections, and some parties never participated on their own, because they don't exist, they're satellites, they just fill the boards of directors and supervisory boards in the ministries for their own personal interests, and so it's 18 years and they don't care who they're in power with. Such is Rasim Ljajic's party, and it has been in the last 18 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51362	Comrade Seselj, I do not think I have violated the Rules of Procedure and those provisions of Article 107. You have honored each other enough, so fellow Mijatovic has the same rights as you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word is a colleague of Branimir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51363	Thank you, Chairman. Article 108 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, Paragraph 1. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. In the previous case, you had to interrupt the previous speaker because he advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we know that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised immediately, or immediately after it was done. The previous speaker did not mention the SDPS, nor did she mention the SRS, nor the problem that no one will be in the coalition ever with the SRS, so they are forced to go to the elections on their own, so I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure in the future, to be consistent in this, so that we can continue the smooth work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51364	I have about the same answer for you as for Mr. Seselj. Do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51365	I'm reporting from Article 32. Indeed, the National Assembly should, as many as we Serbian radicals have advocated the maximum freedom of speech in the National Assembly, as much as we oppose any restriction and you know that our position is decades, we are against the fact that the MP is limited both by time and topic, simply this is where the MPs can speak openly. But from the National Assembly calling for the murder of fellow MPs is absolutely unacceptable. Don't frown on Arsic, it happened in the process of asking parliamentary questions. This Mijatovic, a colleague, said Vojislav Seselj provided information that Rasim Ljajic agreed at the US Embassy to liquidate him. It does not say Mijatovic that this is not true, but says – Vojislav Seselj, who is a political past, so the political past is assessed by Mijatovic and Ljajic and can be liquidated. So, he has to be careful what he's saying if he doesn't, of course, share Rasim Ljajic's opinion, although he's blinking more and more, since he's clear that Ljajic will no longer be on Alexander Vukic's list, and he won't be on the list here from the alliance, and probably not with you either, so he's trying to get out of there slowly, so we're getting useful information from him about this whole thing about Rasim Ljajic, and then he's trying to introduce himself here somehow differently. So, everything can say, and that we are past and that we are like this, but we must not and cannot be allowed here from this place to confirm that Ljajic is contracting the murder of Vojislav Seselj and that in his opinion it is quite okay because Seselj is a political past.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51366	Thank you. My colleague Radeta, I didn't experience it that way, and even if it's about some political past, it's in a political, not physical sense. Then read the stenogram. Here, I'll check the stenogram, but that really wasn't there. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51367	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51368	You have no right to a replica, colleague Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51369	Then Rules of Procedure, Rule 27. Please, you know, it's absolutely pointless for me to respond to false, corrupting, and lying. I'm only telling the truth, and I'm gonna tell the truth. I don't want any more and I won't continue to respond to these planted things, for the simple reason, the truth always wins. A hundred times a lie is just a lie. Also, as a party, we don't want to raise a game rating. We're not gonna answer every single thing, but we'll always answer. I want a budget debate to be held and this Assembly is doing the job it exists for, not going back and forth all the time. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51370	You don't want the Assembly to declare itself in voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. I'm sorry, my colleague, Ms. Radeta, also doesn't want to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51371	One of the more important issues in Serbia that has not yet been resolved in a systematic and comprehensive manner is the question of hundreds of thousands of fighters who participated in armed conflicts in the former Yugoslavia's 1990s. I particularly want to point out over 50,000 Krajina fighters, or members of the Republika Srpska Army, who have not been recognised as a wartime wartime for 23 years since the end of the war. The Krajina fighters believe it is discrimination, they feel bitter, they are dissatisfied because they believe, and there they are quite right, that they fought with honor and honesty to preserve Yugoslavia, to defend their people, to defend the state of Serbia. It is known that the country's fighters are at war, i.e. participation in the war was recognised only until 15 April 1992 until the date of the creation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that is, on 19 May, when JNA withdrew from today's Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. What particularly hurts the country's fighters is the fact that the war effort for the entire time of the war has been recognised by the province's officers, officers and civil servants who were in the JNA and later in the Republika Srpska Army. I call on Minister Djordjevic to put in place a provision in preparation for the new law on the rights of fighters and martial law to recognise the wartime wartime war on all provinces... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51372	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51373	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs, Serbia, according to a report by the Republic Bureau of Statistics on GDP growth, was among the three fastest growing European economies, after Poland and shares third place with Hungary. Serbia's real GDP growth in the second quarter of 2018 was 4.8% compared to the parallel quarter last year, with a growth of 0.8% compared to the previous quarter. That's how it's been considered a record year after GDP growth. The long-standing situation in which the Serbian economy was and the surplus has already been three years in a row, which gives us the opportunity to raise the standard of citizens. The amendments to the Central Register Act will allow us to better pay taxes, which means better budgeting. The key to success was successful economic reforms. Congratulations on the results achieved in 2018 and I wish you success in further work. I'd just like to say, in the end, that you're often criticized by so-called. The opposition, but when they kick you, and when they criticize you, remember the next, that the one who does it most often gets the sense of self-importantness the more successful you are, the punches are stronger, and that just means that they envy you and that you are worthy of attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51374	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJibuška Lakatoš submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51375	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, thanks to the positive changes that are taking place in Serbia in all segments of society, thanks to the stabilisation of economic opportunities, the development of the IT sector shows the need for more efficient management of the central database where different databases are pooled for the same user groups in the area of social security. The Central Register is an electronic service based on IT technologies and is exactly allowing the adoption of this proposed law to connect with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, leading to an increase in data exchange efficiency for both the Central Register and other bodies and data users organisations from the Central Register. The adoption of this law provides for a unique database on mandatory insurance and insurance bonds and insured persons where data are entered and stored and updated on an electronic daily basis. The central insurance register law is of great importance to all citizens and, of course, to members of minority communities living in Serbia and exercising all their rights as well as to all Serbian citizens, especially in the case of social protection in the part of compulsory social security as a guarantee of material security for employees and their families and health care. The application of this law encourages Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51376	National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51377	Dear People's MPs, respected ministers with associates, have submitted an amendment to further point out the need for the establishment of a Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, as well as the importance of the register for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of the work of local self-government. The level of work and development of local self-government has been raised since 2012, thanks above all to the policy of equal regional development, to which Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, along with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been dominantly insisting, with the task of the development objectives of local self-government being supported by the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Without the government's concrete support and measure, almost all of our local self-government would experience a classic bankruptcy, and municipal accounts would be in a blockade today, due to the enormous debts that the proud local leadership leaders left behind. In 2016 and 2017, the government of the Republic of Serbia has specifically helped the municipality of Novi Knezevic, which has provided its further functioning and has financially stabilised this local self-government, and is expected to fully resolve financial debt by the end of this year. In addition to the catastrophic state of affairs, local self-government, thanks to its consistent application in the SNS programme, is on the safe path of further progress and development, and the guarantee on this road is the proposal for a budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which is primarily a developmental character, but which fully characterises the social aspect. In realising the objectives of social policy and social protection, it will make a significant contribution to the Central Register Act, mandatory social security and therefore deserves our unreserved support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51378	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51379	Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 3. The bill adds the 2nd position -- the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on improving business. All members of the team who form the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance must have the same goal, understand it and have a clear intention and commitment to achieve the objective. Independence in team work is clearly defined, understandable and acceptable to everyone. The purpose of independence in the work is to direct the team's work, concentrate and collect energy and disrupt members, and its function to facilitate the definition of priorities in determining tasks that will lead to the achievement of the objective, better social security. The pension and disability insurance branches, as well as the Institute of Health Insurance in Pirote, welcome the upcoming newspaper, thanks to the real decisions of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Respecting the principles envisaged, in addition to the above-mentioned principle of labour independence, as well as the principles of efficiency which foresees that all reported data are transferred without delay to a single base and the principles of economicity, according to which the process of registration and data transfer is carried out without delay and at as little cost, enables citizens of Serbia to fully apply positive legal rules that are entirely on their side and say that the Serbian government is at the head of the SNS, taking care of its citizens first.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51380	Thank you, colleague Kostic. You have once again pleasantly surprised me with the quality of your discussion. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51381	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Act, which adds Article 2 – the basic purpose of such a bill is to regulate the exchange of data with regard to payment of contributions to compulsory social security, established between the Central Register and the Tax Administration, which is fully realised by establishing a uniform collection of taxes and deductions. As the Central Register, primarily an electronic database and an electronic service based on IT technologies, was necessary to provide a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow for more effective and faster exercise of rights and to comply with the requirements regarding electronic data exchange of state authorities. I would point out that the crown of all affairs, related to the digitisation of citizens' records, is the establishment of the Central Register, which I mentioned in the previous amendment. So, as we know, the Central Register is a comprehensive record with all data on citizens who are in different registers, its use, the services will be able, under official duty, to obtain data for services provided to citizens and any changes in any of the records, to be automatically updated. It is no doubt that this very way of working ensures greater efficiency and economicity, as citizens will no longer have to apply a number of documentation, in order to achieve some of their rights in the process, but bodies under official duty, in a quick and economic manner, will obtain all the necessary data from the Central Register. The adoption of this bill will create the necessary normative conditions for the more efficient implementation of registration and conduct of a single base, which will contribute to increasing economics and Article 3. needs to be further defined by the proposed amendment 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51382	I thank my colleague Krivokapic. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51383	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, by adopting the Central Register Act, are encouraged by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I like to talk through examples of how we've come up with such good results when it comes to the budget. Speaking of a town and a place, and that's the town of Smederevo. The town of Smederevo, with the help of Alexander Vukic, built a free zone on site, on the land of the former "Gododine". We now have over 40,000 m2 of space that is built by the city of Smederevo. He took credit for it, but now the lease war is far bigger than the loan war. So 3,500 people are now working on less than 40 ha, and the predecessors wanted to install there at 200 ha of refinery, which was somewhere polluting the environment, in which they wanted to employ 200 people. They now have a problem with the aero pollution, when it comes to "The Irons", and it employs over 5,000 people. Ask those people who work at the Ironworks what bothers them. I, as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, cannot support any pollution, but the Chinese investor who works here is very responsible and can be resolved, because it was a far greater problem to resolve the employment of these people who are now working at the Ironworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51384	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51385	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, one of the laws that our country is leading forward to continue to be among the fastest growing economies in Europe, is the Law on the Central Register of Obligor Insurance. This law has an impact on the growth of the economy, and it is in line with my amendment. Once we have achieved financial consolidation and stabilised our finances, this government is working to strengthen the capacity of our country's institutions. Thanks to the steps taken, the rate of economic growth in 2018 is 4.9%, which places us in Europe's fastest growing economies. The number of unemployed has been reduced, and it is certainly one of the best and greatest results we have achieved in the previous period, so at the end of the third quarter it is 11.3%. Taxes at 63% went down to 62%. One of the priorities of the Serbian government is to encourage further growth in the economy, thus reducing the income tax. According to Minister Maliko, there is a law on alternative investment funds that invest in young entrepreneurs and develop ideas. One of the most beautiful news that Minister Mali told us yesterday -- a 900m-euro debt was paid back, and for comparison, we paid back the old debt that we could make 18 new hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51386	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51387	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment to Article 3. The bill refers to improving health conditions and when we talk about the health budget for 2019, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health is financed through six programmes: regulation and supervision in the field of health, preventive health care, development of quality and availability of health care, development of health institutions infrastructure, support for the achievement of the right of compulsory health insurance, prevention and control of major chronic non-infectious diseases. All this suggests that the state of Serbia, this government and the resolution ministry of health care care for the content of health care, preservation and improvement of citizens' health, health monitoring and health needs of the population, healthcare organisations. In the end, I will quote the words of the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, in 2016: "The challenge has been to halt health failure in Serbia over the past period." Not only have we achieved this, but we have created a base for the development and progress of treatment conditions in our country, we have created conditions for our health to be faster, more efficient and more quality and that is indeed so. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51388	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51389	Thank you. The Central Register, by the entry into force of this Act, will take over the management of the register of employees, elected appointed, appointed and engaged persons by public funds users. This is one of the most significant newspapers adopted by this new Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, because so far, the management of this register has been entrusted to the Treasury Administration, but it is not only the good news adopted by this law, because there are other newspapers that will help control the collection of contributions to be more efficient, at the same time reducing the costs of the administration and making the functioning of the social security system more efficient. This will be achieved by establishing a central database, which will unite several different already existing and new databases and connect them into one continent, into one network and several other registers, which is the basis for further development of electronic administrations. Finally, I would like to point out that during the current period of existence, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, and especially since 2013, when the electronic service has been operationally released, has achieved excellent results thanks to the high expertise and commitment of the work of all employees, especially the management of the Central Register, which is certainly commendable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51390	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted the title above Article 4 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51391	Mr. Minister, it's the end of the year and all those who are obliged to report mandatory social security employees can tell you they're facing a certain kind of problem. I have been talking to several accounting agencies, so the owners I know, and they're facing just one problem that you have to solve, either Mrs. Kalinović or her portfolio. So it's not enough to just have an app, it needs to work. During December, the application did not work for all Serbian users for ten days. I'm going to give you an example of the lady who owns one of the prominent agencies in Kragujevac told me. The man stopped working for a certain time, say, December 2nd. He had an injury on December 3rd. He ended up at the Emergency Center in Kragujevac. Since he did not have a certified health book, he had to pay 40,000 for the intervention for reasons that the application did not work and the responsible persons from the agency could not report him for further training in order to verify his health book. They ask the question is it normal, then, after a few years of registering for mandatory social security, we are now wasting time here with this technical law, which it really is, and the problems are numerous? I don't have time now, and the next budget is, although there isn't, to tell you that earlier than six items, now seven pages of VAT registration should be filled out, so that he has to run double accounting for each New Year's Eve shop. How far does that lead? To destroy entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, you still have Rasim Ljajic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51392	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51393	We turned our attention to the very beginning that this law, let's not say is not necessary, but as it is done more looks like some sublegal act. Yesterday, Ruzica Nikolic, a National MP, asked why you did not foresee in this law the way in which you published or certified health books, and you said – it will be in the course of 2019. Now we're asking you further why you didn't leave any employees in the course of their working century or at the end of the working century to take a list of all those previous years based on this central register? Without it, this actually has no big difference compared to those M-4 patterns. Nothing fundamentally changes here, but while we are discussing, people in Serbia, as much as the representatives of government and this work of some kind of pro-Western opposition are trying to somehow disgust the people of Serbia, people are looking at this and somehow looking at it from their point of view, and they want MPs to pass on to both the ministers and the public, so they say from one part of the Forest of People, and that's not only the problem in this part of the Forest, but in all of Serbia, they say – what does this minister talk about when the state doesn't pay for contributions? Let's say, and HMZ doesn't pay workers who deal with this anti-urban protection, and it's not just that, but there are cases as many as you want, and that's the story from the first meeting with you, Mr. Mali, how necessary it is to seriously reform the tax administration. Without it, you're free of all these attempts. Nothing's gonna do any good. When I said we were called citizens, there were people from the New Market. First of all, the daughter of the first owner of the factory "Opcija" d.o.o., who unfortunately died because of the stress he experienced when Rasim Ljajic took his factory and sold the factory to an Italian friend. She also reported on behalf of families contacted by the family of people who worked in the factory before Rasim Ljajic robbed, so he kidnapped. The factory employs 150 people, or 200 people, and after selling, or handing in, it can also be used to use that Ljajic friend Italy, a number of 50 employees. This is a problem, not just this factory, not only this case, but we are really wondering – what we need to bring out, and we have a lot more information for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Ljajic, so that the authorities can take appropriate measures, and so that you in the government can say – we will not sit with such a man, spoil our image, or share that opinion. If so, it is already a serious problem for the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51394	His word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51395	I checked in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51396	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51397	Article 106(1) – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker really spoke about the agenda point in most of its interpretation, but it did not. Perhaps she is not, perhaps, but I am convinced that she has consciously done so to continue to insult and bring out lies and nonsense at the expense of the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. I understand that you can't know what someone here, in advance, is going to say, is someone going to talk about the agenda point, is someone going to insult someone, is someone going to threaten someone, is someone going to throw a curse here in the Assembly, but you're obliged to interrupt the speaker when you notice that it's off topic. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51398	Hold on, fellow Radeta, I haven't even gotten to this injury yet. I'll go with you later on about the Rules of Procedure. I'll go with you. I have something to tell you. You have to learn that this is a kind of political arena and that you have to learn and receive and strike. He can't be the chairman every time he intervenes. So, when it gets lost, when it gets too personal or absolutely disrupts dignity, then the chairman reacts. My colleague Radeta, I was the only one who could make a mistake about the Rules of Procedure while you were speaking, so here's my word for you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51399	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I am reporting on the basis of article 32 that as one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, I am replacing you here, because you are losing some strings, you are becoming nervous, so I am protecting the dignity of the National Assembly to come and show the citizens of Serbia that indeed, in democratic principle and democratic standards, there is a session of the National Assembly. Well, you really just said that you can't predict it, and you don't have to predict what the MP is going to say. It was not good that you did not notice an hour ago when Mijatovic said it was okay for Rasim Ljajic to organise the murder of Vojislav Seselj at the British Embassy...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51400	He didn't say that. My colleague, please don't. It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51401	Well, I will. Please, I say, let me sit here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51402	No, I don't. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51403	Get a stenogram, Arsic. My love, take a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51404	We'll check the stenogram, but until then, I'm asking you to hold back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51405	Here, good. So, the citizens of Serbia heard, so I just like to say it again. And, let me just say two things to my colleague. One, I'm not a pay phone. The pay phone is this, I don't know how much I have to explain to everyone. And don't give me a Ustasha new address at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am a People's MP. If he's talking about someone who talks, then I can only be a speaker and I can't be a pay phone. So, that. The second thing, if this colleague who had previously spoken and intervened in the Rules of Procedure, had God not given it away, had read the proposal of this law, it would have been clear to him that my previous debate had neither strayed from Article 4 nor from the proposal of this law. And the fact that this mandatory social security law fits into the problem of 150 people and 150 families that Rasim Ljajic left without compulsory social security, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51406	Thank you, colleague. Radeta's colleague, so you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Did I get it right? (Verica Radeta: No, I was offering myself to sit there under Article 32.) And you're... Here, I admit that you, I'm sure, would do a much better session than I do, but for now, this is the situation. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51407	I'm advertising Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. Mr Arsic, I would like to say that the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Mijatovic, did not call for murder, which you said, but I will quote, we have stenograms, we were shocked yesterday when one of the SRS MPs, here I quote, said, addressing Minister Sinishi Mali – do not think that you will not be the next target of Vojislav Seselj, as Rasim Ljajic is now the target. You'll be next, you'll be safe. I don't know, Mr. Mali, did you hear that? We didn't believe what we heard, but we were shocked. We have now taken a stenogram and it is clear here that the SRS has finally admitted that Rasim Ljajic is the target of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51408	My colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51409	And, I beg you not to allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51410	Thank you, colleague. I really didn't, you can't, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure refer to directly done, please. (Jasmina Karanac: What can't now? We can quote. That was, no one reacted at the time. The word has a minister, Mr. Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51411	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of Serbian citizens, just to say that the Central Register's portal was not working for 10 days from 28 October to 12 November. However, all the time they were working counter-services, so the work of the Central Register itself was not interrupted at any time. And it's about to give us the right to put more into new information technology to avoid the possibility or to minimise the possibility that this system, to say, falls or not to work or to be blocked by some time period. Of course, these things happen in real life, but the important thing is that, once again, the counter service has worked all the time, and we will, of course, try to minimize these events in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51412	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51413	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have offered and you have declined to Article 4. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security was designed to specify the management of a single base. We have also proposed this amendment that the founder of the Central Register be the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment also says that the funds for the implementation of the Central Registry are provided in the budget, and when it comes to the defined funds in the budget, I would like to list 42 million that are allocated to the National Council Office, led by Tomislav Nikolic. We fear that this money will not be used for the work of the co-ordination office with our friendly countries, with the Russian Federation and the NKK, but will be used to finance the advisory post of Tomislav Nikolic, that is, for him and his villa. I would also ask what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do to preserve dignity and to preserve the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and did you discuss in the government the Rasim Ljajic who draws new borders of Serbia and who is in coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, who said Serbia is a fascist creation? I'd also like to ask you, has any action been initiated against Suleiman Ugljanin?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51414	My colleague... Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by National Envoy Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to sum up my story of amendments to this bill, I will only apply in one sentence to my previous amendment, which refers to the cooperation of man and machine. Here is the logical question – how much will the mentality of the employer and the insurance company meet the procedures of the modern information system? So that we MPs of the SRS don't just attack and criticize, I'm going to point out a good example here, which is a member of the 34th bill, which says that the data can't be deleted and kept secret. As you can see, we never have a problem being the most objective critics. Dear fellow Members of the People, here we are, at the very end of this marathon, united debate, about the real flood of legislative proposals, including the draft budget law, is certainly the most important law of each government for the year for which it is passed. I ask one question – did we advance this debate and improve some of these legal proposals? I don't think so. Did we contribute to their improvement and improvement? The answer is the same, I don't think we are. And, in this context, I must commend the chairman, both Mr Arsic and the Government of Marinkovic, that they were tolerant and allowed the MPs not to be strictly amended, that they could say a few words about the budget, which, as far as, has been appropriated by this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51416	Thanks, buddy. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Comrade Seselj, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I need to clarify one thing. Serbian radicals deal with Rasim Ljajic only because we caught him in crime. And that's why he's a political target, and that means that. I have to teach you something, even though you've been here a lot longer than I have, but I guess you really don't know anything. So, Sinisha Mali, i.e. The minister, as far as I can see, is proposing for the first time and is now defending the budget in the National Assembly. Of course, there will be a cause for attacks if we catch some illegal action or an affair over this budget next year, and that's natural, and all parties in the Assembly should do it. We'll see how the first year goes, i.e. The next year of the ministry is Sinisha Mala. You know, we have a lot of unnecessary expenses. We're talking about budgets and economic reforms, and we're spending money on things, I can say freely, unnecessarily. Serbian radicals have always advocated the abolition of the AP Vojvodina. We think it is one step towards new separatism in the Republic of Serbia. Huge money flows into the unnecessary administration of the AP Vojvodina, which is also absurd, since besides the AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, we actually have asymmetry in the administrative system of the Republic of Serbia, since we have two provinces and one region that has no status at all. Who needs that? We also finance the Council of National Minorities, which deals with separatism, and not only is it being financed, I have nothing against tradition, culture of all national communities in Serbia, it should be promoted, but it cannot be separatized to promote. You have to settle this in your government with your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51418	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51419	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 108. I don't have to quote it, you all know what that member means. The previous speaker here said he thought their colleague said that Rasim Ljajic was a political target. No, gentlemen, she made it clear that Rasim Ljajic is the target of Vojislav Seselj. They may have thought Rasim Ljajic was a political target, but they also said Sinisa Mali would be the next target, surely. Maybe they think Sinisha Mali will be a financial target because he has the state register. Since Rasim Ljajic didn't want to be a financial target and he didn't give you money for what you're saying, so now you're dragging the finance minister into it. Well, that's not gonna work for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51420	Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Business! ) I am now setting a five-minute break, and in accordance with Article 112. [[After a break.]] The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in your opening statement on the 2019 budget, we see that your mouth was full of surpluses. You are announcing certain funds for subsidies in the economy and agriculture. But unfortunately, I come from a place where you've destroyed farmers and simple peasants by your moves and political decisions. We Serbian radicals in this high home are the voice of a common man, peasants, people who should live with dignity from their work. We are not ashamed of these people, even on the contrary, with all our strength we are fighting for their interests and the interests of all Serbian citizens. Two years in a row, you're destroying people who are dealing with the production of raspberries, blackberries, apples, plums and the like. You stood open on the side of the tycoon, breaking your own laws, and we know that the law prohibits the monopoly on the market. The ransom prices you've set have led people to raise their hands from the work they've been doing their whole lives. Let's say, the price of the ransom raspberries is 70 dinars, 1 4, apples 5, plums 13 etc. The farmers wonder what to do. Do they destroy everything, but they say they can't live off a farm pension that unfortunately is 11,000 dinars. What about livestock subsidies for 2018? 50% ain't even paid. What about subsidized oil derivatives for farmers? What about the Atarian Roads? Where's the better life? The only "better life" can be seen on RTS directed by Mihajil Vukratovic, who knows which way. I do not want to mention either Sulja or Rasim, as Mrs Gojkovic said, that their political role is minor in Serbia, but if half of the truth is what we heard in this high house, I think it is a vacuum that Rasim Ljajic resigns. Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51423	Comrade Seselj, I have just spoken to your MP, I have not interrupted him, so I have not been able to break the Rules of Procedure in any way, and what you have with each other is solved within your Parliament club. I'm sorry. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51424	I want to tell you through this amendment that you're allowing yourself too much. We in the parliamentary group, thank you for asking, we have no problems, and even if we had you from that place, you can't send us messages like that. You are competing in your parliamentary group who will more, "Friend Tito we swear to you" etc., and it has already sickened the citizens of Serbia, but that is your business. We wouldn't have mentioned it to you if you hadn't hooked up and it wasn't your first time. Mr. Arsic, don't be rude. You know how we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51425	Leave it now. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Marina Ristic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Alexander Seselj: Business. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. The amendment that I have proposed to propose this law to encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia in the provisions of this law, with particular reference to the efficiency of social protection institutions. The social protection area is aimed at improving the social status of citizens on a personal, family and social basis. Social protection provides for a certain level of each citizen through different social protection institutions, which should aim to achieve rights, provide services in the area of social protection. However, this bill cannot affect the more efficient financing of the social protection system. That is why the objective of the amendments that we have submitted, which you have not accepted, was to improve the efficiency of social protection institutions. I ask the question of Justice Minister, to answer me, did the New Market prosecutor initiate a criminal case against Sulejman Ugljanin, who said Serbia is a fascist state, which is a criminal offence for which the 15-year sentence is prescribed, and Ugljanin is in coalition with Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic? Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51427	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51428	Thank you. Article 107. There was a brutal violation of the dignity of the National Assembly just now. You know, when a lady here says we're interested in the finance minister because he's got the state register, and otherwise it's uninterrupted in power. For 18 years in all possible coalitions, the party never went to the polls on its own, and I am very interested in which one of these MPs will remain in the party when it is no longer in power? I wonder what their connective tissue is, what connects them, with the end and the rope? So the only reason for dealing with politics, the members of that party, at least in the highest places, the officials, is just for the benefit of, just personal interest. We can see that on many examples. First of all, the people who were selected from the DS list made the government with advances as if nothing had happened, couldn't collect any signatures themselves, not go to the polls. So these are the people we're talking about. You know what, we do politics from the ideals. We didn't cross the census twice, and we stayed together because it doesn't tie us up. I guess there's more to politics than mandates, boards and boards of directors and whatever you're handling. You know, when one party goes to the polls on one list and makes a 180-degree turn with the other, I don't know what I could call it, except for political prostitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51429	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't say a member that I hurt. (Alexander Seselj: I said immediately Article 107.) Okay. Article 107 has been repeated several times. (Alexander Seselj: You didn't hear me.) You're wrong. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51430	Thank you, Chairman. Amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security submitted by the SRS parliamentary group is proposed to amend that Article in paragraph 3 relating to the headquarters of the Central Register. What is significant, it is noted, the proposer states in the explanation that the Central Register is an electronicly managed database based on high standards and performances, and that competences regarding the keeping of a register for special, selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons are understood. In order to improve the quality of staff data, public funds users, as well as better budget planning, automation is provided for users of public funds. Is that really how it's gonna be? The representatives of the SRS will monitor regularly. In the context of the time at our disposal, we will also talk to the citizens of Serbia. Following SRS President Vojislav Seselj's allegations of the works of Rasim Ljajic, the government did nothing, nothing was done, and after the elections for the national councils and warnings of the SRS MPs that Rasim Ljajic supports the "Vakat is" group and that he is in coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, who makes the worst accusations for the state of Serbia. The same one, Rasim Ljajic, is the vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the things he supports are inadmissible and therefore he should no longer remain in that position. The current government of the Republic of Serbia should take this seriously, not ignore the warnings of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51431	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. (Mylorad Mijatovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51432	Article 27. You know, this controversy that exists and has been burdening this parliament here for days. I must say that we will only tell the truth and that is what adorns this party. Everything these people on the right say doesn't touch us much. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia what is true. How ungrateful they are is quite clear. You know, when no one wanted to sign up for an NGO, a committee to defend Vojislav Seselj, that was bravely done by Rasim Ljajic. It's that kind of ingratitude. Furthermore, and still, I'm very glad to hear from you, you're the opposition, so it's good to have one of the opposition parties on board. I will continue to do so and we will always make arguments, facts, and we warn you that you stick to facts, truths and arguments. I told your leader that I respect his title as a doctor of science, which is true, he's a doctor of science and I respect that, and you're telling the truth, we'll stand behind what you say. As long as you are an opposition, we will attack you with all the political means we never threaten, only by political means in this House. This parliament is also for discussion and we need to discuss all things. I'd really like to say a little courtesy, not to go into the speaker's word. So don't make it up. You're telling the truth, we'll respect you. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51433	Thank you, let's move on. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go. (Verica Radeta: Sreto Peric did not speak according to the amendment. Sreto Peric, then Vesna.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51434	Mr. Minister, we could hear here that this bill on the central register of mandatory social security is a reform law. I wish you were, then you'd really be a man with no problems at all. Here in this law, by its nature and in essence, there can be nothing reformative, especially when you're also a way of funding, well, you say a voluntary contribution and the rest, it's completely pointless, the participation of board members without compensation, so this one has nothing without compensation and that's not true, but you should already give an answer. On the first day, when we started discussing the details of this law, I asked you - are you planning, that would already be certain reforms, to reduce your obligations when it comes to taxes and contributions to employers in Serbia? We've heard here many times that they're completely foreign and domestic investors. It's simply not true when it comes to practice. That's not true. It's much easier to get permission from foreign investors than it is for domestic investors. The motive to stay on, to fight more and more seriously, is to have domestic investors. It does not mean that certain attention should not be given to foreign investors. Then, here, there is a decrease in taxes and contributions for employees from 63% to 62%, as if it were now some tectonic change that will bring some significant improvement for both employees and employers. It's nothing, you have to think very seriously in this direction and in the course of next year, not waiting for the 2020 budget, suggest some new solutions. I would also inform my colleague Karanac, she is not in progress, our one political target, and that is Rasim Ljajic... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51435	Thank you very much. We heard. Thank you. And it's clear to everyone. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51436	Thank you. I personally believe, and on behalf of all Serbian radicals, to convey here the gentlemen of the National Assembly, to say that individuals should bow down before saying the name Vojislav Seselj. So much for now. Furthermore, as for fiscal control and the 2019 budget, we expected, Mr. Minister, Sinisa Mali, that you would introduce new fiscal rules that would precisely determine the procedure for controlling and punishing politicians if there was an irresponsible management of public finances. You did not do so, so now that you have projected the 2019 budget, you have clearly defined the funds, so that most of the public funds are not intended for the general population, but for different interest groups that can only lead to your political strengthening. It is not good for now, nor for the future of our country, nor for democracy, nor for the principle on which we should build a future society. One more thing to tell you, if it's true, and we all know that you've taxed in this Serbia everything possible and impossible about property and anything about our citizens, and now your budget is filled with all citizens, and you've found it appropriate to buy gondola in Belgrade from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and to buy that gondola from Bruce, and the one from Kruševac, and the one from eastern and western Serbia, etc., and there's nothing to pay the bills from, and that he had to pay taxes because you took and brought him out of the barn the last cow. That's not right, and you didn't take care of it. Without a clear state strategy, you've made it possible to have discretionary rights so that you can dispose of the means, and you can't have such resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51437	Thank you. Time. Minister, will you? Did you get that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51438	I'm sorry. Dear MPs, regarding the previous comment, I disagree that 0.75% and the abolition of the contribution to unemployment on the employer's burden is a small and negligible measure, since it costs 12 billion dinars to Serbian citizens. If someone has 100m euros, it's one pair of sleeves, and on the other hand I think it's a serious measure to look at in two ways. First, if that was the first time, I think, in history, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is coming out with a concrete measure of reducing the burden of profit and that we have said several times, I will repeat it today in front of you, that it is only the first step. If the economic results are good in 2019 and 2020 we will see to it that we continue to reduce the burden on profits in the Republic of Serbia to make our economy even more attractive and competitive. On the other hand, this measure should be seen within one set of measures taken together with the proposed budget for 2019. You have a large number of tax breaks that will further reduce the costs of both foreign and domestic companies. You make that difference, I don't make them. All these companies employ our labour force, employ our workers, pay taxes, contribute to our country, fill our budget, so that on this side the difference does not make, apart from the measure and set of tax incentives, except for reducing the contribution for unemployment to the burden of employers applied to all businesses in Serbia. You have, of course, the Law on Refunds which further reduces these parafiscal burdens again for all businesses in our country, and I believe that this is the right and only correct approach when it comes to the development of our economy in the coming period that with a clear message that we are going towards reducing the burden of our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51439	Thank you. Time. Parliament member Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51440	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as the central register is an electronic-led database based on high IT standards and performances, it indicates that our administration, our legal framework and society are ready to face the most modern way of working and, of course, everything in the interest of providing better services to citizens. That is exactly how our president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the responsible leadership, carried out by the SNS programme, act to improve the quality of life for citizens, taking care of the return of the accumulated debts of the previous regime, taking care of modernisation, improvement and the better reputation of Serbia in the world. It's a reality. The figures and facts visible on the ground talk about it, but also in Serbia on the other hand, unfortunately, we have the action of those who, in the absence of arguments and political ideas, insult women, insult the president of parliament, commit physical violence against women and those who do not think the same as they, or those who support and implement SNS policy. Our statistics are new jobs, higher pensions, higher salaries, new clinical centres, new schools, new cultural facilities, roads, etc., and the growing position of Serbia on world-renowned lists, while their statistics are measured in spoken words of hate, insult, violence, which Serbian citizens of course do not like and that they have already several times not previous elections and confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51441	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51442	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I have submitted the fourth amendment to which I always wish to contribute and an accent on the development of undeveloped areas, mountain-mounted areas, in southeastern Serbia, in rural areas, and I can say that the employment of people and enrolment in the central register sees all this going well. I can say something very important, as a host and as a man. By 2012, we had a house, our country of Serbia, which had problems, where the foundation was burdened, where it began to collapse, but by the arrival of the new government, by the arrival of President Vukic and all of us here, the foundation began to build a new one. Now a new foundation has been built, our houses, our countries of Serbia. The foundation is now strong and I now expect us all together in the 2019 budget to continue to build, work and normally our house Serbia to be strong, strong and powerful, to put on an accent to build southeastern Serbia, to put on an accent to build in our villages, to support our women living in the country, our young people living in the country, to support southeastern Serbia and normally, to help our young people to become employed. The government's programme, the finance ministry, gives a great opportunity through the 2019 budget to get bigger subsidies for Southeast Serbia, for mountainous and mountainous areas, for devastated areas. Building railways, building roads, solving all problems in infrastructure, that is the chance and the possibility of developing southeastern Serbia better and faster. Dear fellow MPs, I call on you to support my amendment, to support the development policy of southeast Serbia and to give all of us together an even greater and stronger chance, opportunity and support to the president of Serbia to develop southeastern Serbia and our whole Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51443	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Borko Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51444	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as a woman and as a doctor who I have devoted my entire working life to preserving women's health, I want to strongly condemn the beating of Hope Jovanovic's wife in Luciani, just because it belongs to another political option. I also condemn the term "fuks" of any woman, and especially our speaker, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. I wonder which of us will be next and with what kind of verbal or physical insult? Secondly, I would like to congratulate our Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, on the 21st most powerful politician in the world. The proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance establishes the duty of the Tax Administration to provide up-to-date data to the Central Registry on the invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security of natural persons, on the basis of the tax application for tax after deduction, as well as the data on the invoiced and paid social security contributions for self-employed persons, on the part of the taxpayers carrying out agricultural activity, as well as on specific categories of debtors. Also, this bill requires the obligation to co-operate and exchange data between the Central Register and users of data from the Central Register, in order to carry out operations from their work, as well as the obligation of the Central Register to provide technical conditions for their connection, but also electronic connection with other registers and databases held in the Republic. The central register shall be obliged to allow users of the data to access the database permanently and to transfer and use the data only from their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51445	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Mirko Krlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51446	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The objective of this amendment is to particularly highlight the improvement of the work of health insurance organisations. Of course, I've already said that health insurance and social security are our big flows and many countries don't have it, so we should be proud and I absolutely advocate the highest level of health insurance. Last week and this week they showed us that there are persons who should have additional health insurance. In Šumadija, central Serbia, there is an expression that says -- a standing suit. It's that suit that stands in the closet on the hanger and is used for weddings, funerals and other occasions, possibly celebrations. It stands in the naphthaline and only these occasions are potentially used. For the first time last week, we saw that there were MPs standing here. The similarity between the standing MPs and the standing suit is that they will also stand for MPs, some brass, some boss or political leader of the type Đilas, Vuk Jeremic, Jankovic, take out from time to time, hang us here and then they stand, do their job, and then they return to the hanger and, as we can see, these laws are not of interest to them. This disease really takes hold and additional health insurance would be necessary. I am not concerned so much about their health care, as much as I am concerned that after the next elections, this parliament will run out of opposition, and that would not be good for the development of democracy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51447	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Goran Pekarski. The 4th amendment was submitted by Darko Laketić. Ljubiša Stojmirovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was filed by Zarko Micin. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51448	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. Article 4 defines that the Central Register is established with the aim of establishing and running a single base of mandatory social security, a single base that will unite all databases, synchronise them, and that at any moment we have accurate data on payments that have a binding character. On the basis of this unique base, each of us will have the opportunity to check that the obligations are being properly implemented, and all citizens will also have the opportunity to indicate irregularities, in order to remove them. With the amendment I have submitted to the bill, I am trying to point out once again the importance of the existence of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, as well as the impact it has on the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, which is seen in strengthening economic resources. In order for Serbia's economy to develop successfully, it is not only necessary to create new factories and new jobs, it is necessary to enable businesses and good roads, and we can talk about this subject with pride. The road network is being built intensively in Serbia. There are examples of this on all sides, but enough to look at the magnificent building on Corridor 10, which is rapidly being built, and not only are the constructions being completed but the works are being completed. I will be happy to accept all the proposed laws in the voting day, and I call on my colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51449	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51450	I thank you, Mr. President of the Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Ministers, Mr. Mali, distinguished guests from the ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, Amendment 4 is the last amendment I submitted to the bill, with the aim of further defining Article 4 of this Law, and in terms of improving health conditions. The summary of my presentations could be – the central register of compulsory social security is a prerequisite for digitisation. To remind you, 700 million dinars have been identified for informing the health system into a unique information system. In this way we build a database, or services that can serve citizens. As the digitization of the parent books has been completed, so the ultimate goal of this law is to make the tents go into history. In this way, we continue to take big steps in the field of digitisation, which means that it is a social process that lasts and facilitates both the economy and the citizens' communication with the state administration, which is a priority. The Central Register, which also includes the Central Register of Obligation Social Insurance, was also discussed by President Vukic, as prime minister, when he exhibited his multi-hour exposés in this high home and continued the current current current current prime minister, Mrs. Brnabic, in his programme. See Section 5, pages 65 to 77. Well said, done. And just to say, since your colleagues aren't here in the O.R., when you hate, you take something away from yourself, and when you love, you get richer. It's supposed to be a motto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51451	Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51452	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my amendment to Article 4 refers to overall economic development, with special reference to the protection of particularly vulnerable, or vulnerable groups. I must say that an effective state administration, a state administration that is a service of citizens and that comes out to meet all the needs of citizens, is certainly in the interest of citizens and certainly this bill is a reform step forward precisely in that sense of an effective state administration. I must also say that the foundations of a healthy economic policy and a healthy economy have been laid by Alexander Vukic's policy, and that policy has continued, of course, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2016. I also have to say that unlike those who robbed children distracted in development, they robbed 135 million just through the Heterland Castle, unlike Dragan Gilas, who also robbed children, because instead of living room he built a Big Brother house and earned millions of euros from reality programs. Unlike those who stole and robbed precisely at the poorest, this government as responsible is taking care of the poorest and most vulnerable and it is seen through the Budget Fund to improve the situation of people with disabilities where they have increased funding for 2019, which is precisely improving the position of all those associations dealing with the protection and promotion of persons with disabilities, improving their quality of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51453	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51454	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, People's MPs, the Central Register is the electronic management of databases and electronic service based on IT technologies. This law provides a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, allowing for a more efficient, faster exercise of rights and in order to comply with requests for electronic exchange of data between state authorities, i.e. e. e-government. The aim is to increase the efficiency of both the Central Register and other authorities and data users' organisations in the Central Register. How much the electronic administration has improved and facilitated the lives of Serbian citizens speaks the e-turn system that operates in four cities in our country and has 22,000 registrations submitted by electronic means annually, without going to any counter. Also, the e-baby system releases parents of administrative procedures at the birth of a child, but this ends with an electronic route. All this says that the government of Serbia's policy is moving forward with the global development of digitisation, as one of the key to economic growth. A transparent and modern administration is key to Serbia's sustainable economic growth as the fourth industrial revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51455	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51456	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, distinguished colleagues, at the very end of the debate in particular of the Law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, we can recapture everything we've heard so far and say that this is definitely a good legal solution that the Central Register needs to make more efficient, better and above all to enable us to better control the collection of contributions, and that in the previous four years we've hired about 370,000 people in our country, thank God, we have whatever we can control. Unfortunately, during the debate, we could see many unpleasant situations and raising tensions, calling for some French script, people's MPs who complained because there is no conflict in the streets in Serbia, as in Paris, where Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have been identified as legitimate targets and the consequences of such behaviour can be seen in these days. In fact, as you've already heard, yesterday in the municipality of Luciani, there was an uncomfortable event where a candidate for the SNS boardman Mrs. Nada Jovanovic, a woman who was 64 years old brutally attacked by a man who presented himself as a police officer, who struck in the area of the head, shot down at the ground and, at that time, said a series of insults to her and her political commitment. Someone who in such a brutal way attacks a woman, a 64-year-old woman, is monstrous, and I think that almost no opposition political party has condemned this event, says how hypocritical all those who call for some kind of protest and a walk against violence are, because you can't fight violence by fighting from every sentence, from every statement you make you can only hear a hate speech and a call to violence. Even, I end up with this if you let me, even some opposition media have relativated this attack and said that this old lady is actually being faked and that she's nothing, which shows what hate speech is and what's really the difference between them and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51457	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vesna Markovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51458	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, when we talk about mandatory social security, I think it is impossible to mention and that it is necessary to mention some of the parameters that we have talked about these days, which are closely linked to this area, which are primarily an increase in earnings and pensions in the Republic of Serbia, of course with a rise in the minimum labour price, and a reduction in unemployment rate. I recently read in a daily newspaper that you said that the news of the increase in earnings and pensions is probably the most important this year. I would agree that, from the point of view of an ordinary citizen in the Republic of Serbia, it is probably the most important news, because something that contributes to a direct increase in living standards in Serbia. Of course, that's where I mean a minimum labour price increase. But it is also important to reduce the unemployment rate. It's more than twice as much compared to the years from last and early this decade. In addition to maintaining peace and stability in the Republic of Serbia, and why not in the region, I think these are also the most important results of the work of the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and something that affects the daily lives of all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia. While we are all trying, with our work headed by the president, to help keep these parameters minimum, if not in improving them, on the other hand from this unfortunate Alliance for Serbia, my colleague Martinovic, "the cage for Serbia", has been called "a cage for Serbia", and you have daily calls for the burning and destruction of your own state. Why am I saying this? It is important that citizens compare these two things, announce the burning and destruction of their own country and good economic movements and everything that affects their daily lives. I am sure that when the citizens compare these two things, they will make an adequate decision in the next election and share political and penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51459	Thank you. The fourth amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51460	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Mr. Ministers with Associates, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law to be added to paragraph 2. – the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on the central register of compulsory social security is contained in Article 97(8) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides and determines the system of compulsory social security. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained, where appropriate, in order to improve the organisation of an efficient form of business, establishment and management of a central database where different databases for the same group of users in the field of social security will be pooled. Therefore, the basic purpose and reason are to regulate the exchange of data with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security, established between the Central Register and the Tax Administration, which is fully realised by the establishment of such tax collection and profit contributions. As the Central Register is primarily an electronically managed database and electronic service based on IT technologies and high IT standards and performances, it is necessary to provide a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of this law are reflected in the need for comprehensive management of the register of employees, selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons with regard to users of public funds, which assumes all competences with regard to the management of their register of employees with regard to the provision of automation with regard to data inputs, all in order to improve the quality of data, i.e. control on the same, all in order to improve budget planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51461	National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51462	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, went through times when citizens were left without a job, without social security, without pay and without a future. Those times weren't that far, only six years ago. In a very short time 500,000 people, 500,000 families have lost their jobs, and what we know and that has allowed these laws and laws that we adopt in the set of laws together with the budget is exactly the time in which we have increased the number of employees by 370,000 in the last four years. It's simple facts. Those who call for unrest, who threaten women above all, threaten their mothers, threaten our families. I take the opportunity to condemn the most strongly all those who threaten women and all those who dare to raise their hands on women and all those who do not condemn attacks. The attack that last happened yesterday on a 64-year-old woman is only one in a row, and I will remind someone who is willing to, in the name of the alliance for, it is not the Alliance for Serbia, it is an alliance against Serbia, that on behalf of this alliance threatens women, that they physically oppose the president of the Assembly, the President Maja Gojkovic, that they physically threaten to rape the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to jump into the courtyards of SNS activists and threaten women at ten o'clock under cover of night, to simply keep silent and not condemn anyone who does so, but are just encouraging attacks, and the result is the support they will not have at this time. In voting day, a set of laws, along with this, will be supported by the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51463	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51464	Thank you, President Gojkovic. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in my previous amendments, I spoke about how important the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is and how precise it will introduce the area and system that controls it. I also referred several times to the budget which is the subject of this session, especially underlining its social aspect. However, then, perhaps what is not mentioned is that in this budget as previous years, gender-sensitivity elements are also involved, and perhaps this is the right time to look back on this topic, because it is exactly 16 days of the activation of violence prevention against women. However, in the atmosphere that the opposition makes, both in the media and on social networks, and also in the Assembly itself, we have these days in action an absolute promotion of the violence of the Gilas Union against Serbia. After calling for murder and hanging, violent conduct was continued in the Assembly, and then the president of the National Assembly of Ms. Maja Gojkovic was struck by threats and insults. And while Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are fighting for territorial integrity and integrity, Đilas, Obradovic and the violent dawn ready and in the pack, as dogs angry, are ready to bite and release the blood of their insatiables. While their MPs are jeopardizing their acting and pathetic women's rights, abuseing each woman's victim of violence in Serbia, their colleagues, encouraged by the violent policies of reckoning, are willing to lynch their unsanitary. So yesterday, as my colleagues have already mentioned several times, and it is not burning to mention and to further really prevent such things from happening in the future, in the municipality of Luciana cowardly and physically attacked, the fist-beating SNS candidate in the upcoming Lucan elections, Mrs Nada Jovanovic. It's their face, violent and cowardly. Dear colleagues of the alliance who see these silences and encourage as women, I condemn the most terrible. Some of them better have been ballerinas, because here is the damage to the performance and work of their invaluable citizens and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51465	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was filed by the National MP Tiana Davidovac. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51466	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the information process, the country defines large funds for the development of health infrastructure. The "billion euros in Serbia's health system" project envisions a major investment in Serbia's health over the next three years. That money will be invested in all types of health institutions. In the equipment of general hospitals, 235m euros will be invested, about 430m euros in clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, an additional 54m euros is intended to build the Tirsova 2 Children's Hospital, 100m euros for 11 clinics and about 200m euros for health homes. In addition to building and equipping health institutions, the government of Serbia has defined two billion dinars in the 2019 budget to treat patients with rare diseases. Also planned are funds for the work of the Budget Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad, as well as for the arrival of foreign experts in our health institutions. Through the Budget Fund and the Republican Health Insurance Fund, more than two thousand patients have been sent abroad over the past four years and over 23m euros have been allocated for these purposes. Also, the Ministry of Health and Er Serbia signed an agreement on co-operation that provides for the citizens of Serbia who need to go abroad for a successful continuation of treatment to provide full support for the national airline and free transport to all destinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51467	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by National MP Aleksandra Maletic. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51468	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of the proposed law, which highlights the role of this law on economic growth and development and macroeconomic stability. We are talking today and these days above all about the fiscal order of the Serbian state and these laws are related to the fiscal order of the Serbian state. But somehow the second key factor of macroeconomic stability remains in the state of Serbia, which is monetary stability. The national banks of many countries, in fact, of all countries, are fighting a difficult fight between two key factors, between the price of money and economic growth and development. If you want to grow, then you have to have cheap money, and cheap money very often goes into inflation, so you have a problem with cheap money when you have inflation, or you don't have growth. In Serbia, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia clearly says in its macroeconomic indicators concerning monetary policy that it is on the right track. From 2008 to 2012 we had aggregate inflation for the four years 47.7%. In the next time period, from 2012 to 2016, inflation was 7% combined. Can we, Mr. Minister, talk about any growth and development of the economy, any conditions and grounds for economic growth if your inflation is 50% in four years? Of course we can't. Serbia has an inflation rate of 2.2% in 2018 and that is the European inflation rate. In addition to the role of monetary policy that the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia has, the National Bank settles and edits the banking system, which has led to practically perfection, our MPLs are at 6%, and just three years ago, in 2015, they were at 21% and they were a problem. As never, the reference interest rate in Serbia is at 3% and all these measures implemented by the National Bank, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and these laws we vote on, primarily the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, are guaranteed a stable and secure future of the Serbian state. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51469	National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51470	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, esteemed fellow MPs, this is the last amendment I submitted to the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, one of the laws of the set of financial law on the agenda of this session. These days we have witnessed different, I would say, failed attempts by the opposition to degrade everything that has been done in the consolidation of the Republic of Serbia's finances since the country's responsibility took over the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic. So, we've had from banging from benches, noises, swearing to yellow vests, calling for violence on the streets, insulting the president of parliament, violence against women in the campaign, and who knows what still exists in those heads as an idea in the coming period. But what I'd like to draw your attention to is that since we took responsibility for the state, we've been doing this job responsibly, especially on time. This is also reflected in the fact that budget laws have been passed in the previous period. I will remind you that the legal deadline for the adoption of the budget on December 15th of the previous year. What it looked like at the time they were doing it yellow, here's a short one. Year 2012, 29.12, 2011 29.12, 2010 29.12, etc. until 2007 when it was adopted on 23.6.2007. The 2004 budget, March 23, 2004, with three months late. Since when does SNS go like this: 1.12, 13.12, 12.12, 10.12, 14.12, and this budget will be adopted as on December 7th. Gentlemen, the facts are inexorable and all the yellow vests of the world can't help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51471	National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51472	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of social protection. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to organise an efficient form for the establishment and management of a central database where different databases for the same user groups in the field of social security will be pooled. By introducing a central database to social security bonds, employers and insurance companies, which should ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions to reducing the costs of the administration and more efficient functioning of the social security system. In this way, the bill has a positive effect on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, in which the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are constantly working on starting reforms and improving the standard of living for which citizens are most interested. For this reason, I believe that the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the efficiency of social protection, must be highlighted in Article 4. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51473	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Ambassador Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51474	Thank you, President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the Central Register and a new way of a unique database on development function, a new system and will have what to show in this Central Register, 11.3 unemployment rates, in the historical minimum, and other results that will be shown and recognised in this register, because Serbia has 10.7 percent of foreign direct investment this year compared to last year when we were leaders. Nearly 60% of foreign direct investment in the Western Balkans ends in Serbia. It may also have something to do with President Aleksandar Vukic opening a factory in Zrenjanin a few days ago, and tomorrow he will open another factory in the industrial zone in Kragujevac that will employ 1,000 workers. Just when the gentlemen of the self-proclaimed alliance for Serbia thought that we had forgotten that they once ruled and had a chance to show all the things they taught us about, their coordinator put on a yellow vest and that yellow color flashed towards us and remember us some things, so here's how they worked with one register. So, for a strange service of archiving and storing email messages, watch out, then the Ministry of Environment hires a private firm and pays 3,646,000 dinars. So, a private company keeps the e-mails of the government's authority. The people choose them to do their job and pay for it, and then they hire a private firm to do the work that the people chose for them. So, the people pay twice. Why would they do that, because they seem to have had something different from the people who chose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51475	Ljiljana Malušić, an MP, submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51476	Thank you, President. Dear Mr. Minister with the ministry's associates, this is my last amendment to the Central Register Act and mandatory social security, which only speaks of the importance of the Central Register. The central register of compulsory social security aims at achieving more effectively and faster citizens' rights in order to contribute to the development of electronic administrations, among other objectives that I have given instructions on previous days to create a legal basis for linking with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia. The driving force of fiscal and budgetary policy consists of measures to dissipate businesses through incentive measures, which are primarily growth and employment. The standard of living of citizens has been increased, the Law on the Temporary Payment of Pensions has been abolished, and pensions have never been higher than in 2014 and pensioners know that this year 2018. Also, inflation was 2.2%, and even 60% of pensioners in 2014 had no pension cuts. Serbia is 65th in competition, an extremely important indicator. And this is exactly how the government of the Republic of Serbia works. So of the 140 countries in the World Economic Forum today, we are better than Croatia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia and BiH. That's how the responsible government is headed with our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and it's enough just to say that today is GDP plus 4.5%, and in 2012, it was minus 3.5%. Active employment policy through various projects, it is very important to point out, lead to faster employment and poverty reduction, and one of the projects is above all other incentives for employment. What does that mean? Within the framework of software activity... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51477	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Blaža Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51478	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, the 2019 budget will contribute to further development and raising living standards, economic growth and even stronger and more intense economic progress in Serbia. Serbia has a budget surplus for the third year, unemployment is down from over 25% to 11.3%, we managed to bring serious investors into our country. This is the result and continuation of the reform processes initiated by the government in 2014. We have built a country where we have restored our reputation and whose name is respectfully pronounced in the world. As the third year in a row the state of Serbia notes the surplus in the budget and the accelerated development of the Republic of Serbia continues, we are able to see in the House of the National Assembly and in the media the unique hatred of all those who do not wish well for our country. It is not just hatred for the SNS and pathological hatred for Alexander Vukic as some MPs speak and perform here at the National Assembly's home is hate and a direct attack on the state of Serbia. This coordinated enemy behaviour has not been recorded in Serbian history by individual MPs in the Assembly and witnesses to Serbian enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51479	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51480	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are no of these across the street from us today. I don't know what it is, whether the coordinator isn't doing his job well or not getting their journals, but I don't mind the chairman who doesn't have them, but I'm worried that they're probably coming up with some new strategy right now to destabilize Serbia, how to cause chaos and violence. All this is in line with the interests of their employers, and we have already these days announced some radicalisation of protests since they failed to attempt to destabilize and chaos here in the Assembly. I want this opportunity to warn them not to play with it. Not to call for violence, chaos, bloodshed because Serbia today is not Serbia from 2000. We won't allow any October 5th, no chaos, no violence, no bloodshed, no burning of the Parliament, no beating of people and things like that. Today's Serbia is a different Serbia. Today's Serbia is among the fastest growing economies in Europe, and certainly the best in the Balkans. Today's Serbia recorded economic growth of 4.9% in just the first six months of this year, the budget surplus of 28 billion dinars was, foreign direct investment is measured by billions, so more than 1.3 billion euros each week we have open factories new and in all parts of Serbia. The unemployment rate is as recordable as we've heard, less than 11% or 11%, and it's all something that they can't dispute in the debate and I believe that's why they're figuratively saying that I'm saying they ran away from the moon. And I call on you in the voting day to support all proposals that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51481	National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51482	I thank the esteemed presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I have submitted an amendment to the fourth member of this bill, but before I speak about the amendment, I would like to point out that fellow Members who are not present today, colleagues belonging to the Alliance for Serbia, colleagues belonging to Gilas's tycoon-lyotic alliance and today and the previous days in progress, while the campaign "16 days of activists against violence against women" is being attacked, both by the president of parliament and the prime minister of Serbia, as well as by all of us with our national emissaries in this hall, with our daily insults, by throwing and attacking what is in the hallway, whichever way we find ourselves. I really can't help but notice that even colleagues who belong to this alliance don't condemn any gestures carried out by their colleagues. But also yesterday, a candidate for the Luciani committee was beaten. Indeed, for every conviction, and I don't know how the co-workers of that alliance can go through Serbia and hold some stands against violence against women, without ever condemning an attack on any of us who don't feel the same way they do. But let it honor them and the citizens of Serbia must know it and must see that they are not here today, without complaining that they have no space, a media space to explain the laws that are very important. On this occasion, I would like to point out that in the voting day, we will support these good laws, because we want to continue a good trend and work in the interest of our citizens, and we show that all these years we are in power. I thank the ministers, and I want progress in 2019.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51483	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, something that will certainly interest the citizens of Serbia, literally a few minutes ago CNN delivered the news, and this will probably interest you, Mr. Mali. CNN conveyed news that Patrick Ho, former Hong Kong police minister, otherwise close associate Vuk Jeremic was convicted by a jury of the New York district court, who declared him seven out of eight counts of money laundering. The maximum sentence for each point of the indictment is between five and 20 years in prison, and the sentence of the sentence, as transferred by CNN, is scheduled for 15 March next year. I'll just read part of what Judge Jeffrey Berman said about Patrick Ho. Patrick Ho is now convicted of paying several million dollars of bribes to foreign leaders in Chad and Uganda as part of his plan to provide an unfair business advantage for an energy company worth billions of dollars. His persistent efforts to corrupt foreign leaders were not ordinary businesses, but criminal acts, which aimed to undermine equality in international markets. The news is important for Serbian citizens, because unfortunately Serbia and unfortunately all its citizens, while it was the chairman of the UN General Assembly, Vuk Jeremic was the mediator between Patrick Ho and his business partners from Chad, Uganda and other world countries. I hope that such a man will never represent Serbia again at any international forum.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51485	The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51486	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the register of mandatory central insurance and services that enables data management and a single database in the area of social security, we had to talk about the path that the Republic of Serbia is going towards towards achieving a more efficient, more modern and orderly state, that is, the reforms we have implemented, which we are conducting in the area of stabilising finance and the introduction of an efficient electronic administration. Serbia is today a country that enjoys the world's reputation after all of these reforms, which is intensively working and investing in rebuilding existing and building new infrastructure, better connects in the region, is stable and sends a message that it is a suitable destination for investing and developing the economy that we really need. Today we are investing equally in all Serbia's districts, no more privileged and politically similar, and is equally investing in Raška, Rasinski, Nisavski and Toplički County. When we talk about the development of the economy and bringing in factories, I have to read one news dating back to 5 April 2016, says – after the company "Delfi" the municipality of Trstenik tomorrow will visit three companies, one of which is the German company "Leoni", which is interested in building a new plant and where 1,800 workers would be employed. So this was only 20 days before the 2016 election. Of course, the former president of the municipality of Alexic, had no capacity or capacity to bring and open any factory in the municipality of Trstenik, and it is clear that this was only one pre-election promise and an attempt to simply collect political points, win another vote, but what is extremely hypocritical is that at the time before the election, this and all other companies were wanted and the talks were conducted to bring them and open their facilities in our cities and municipalities, and today he hypocritically calls them "the cable braiders". So, it speaks extremely uglyly and pesoriously of investors who open factories across our country and forgets that in these factories, thousands of our people, citizens and have the opportunity to work and to support their families from their honest work, that is, everything that members of the Alliance for Serbia have taken from 2000 to 2010, firing workers from the First Five-year-olds and all other factories in Serbia. Today we look forward to every new factory and every new workplace.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51487	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51488	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers and fellow MPs, on the basis of discussions by my colleagues, we have the opportunity to give the citizens of Serbia evidence that all those who make money on international crime and corruption, and wanting to bring you in here, to destabilise the state and come to power across the street, not through their programmes and ultimately, discussions that would lead to Serbia's progress, simply cannot pass, because Serbian citizens always recognize such players. The most important thing is to keep them very well informed. What is news these days, and tomorrow will be adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, pensioners will receive their pensions, employees of state institutions also, professors, teachers, health workers, will have higher salaries than they had last year, will have the opportunity to work in better institutions, better facilities, because the government of the Republic of Serbia is investing in improving these facilities. What is important to say is that the average salary in January will be 465 euros, unlike those left for us in 2012 in large debt and salary of 330 euros per month. Therefore, if we talk about the difference between those who led the state, who would now like to show some Parisian, Ukrainian scenario on Saturday, we now have one stability, a responsible policy and we have at hand the opening of new jobs, because the factory that will be opened tomorrow in Kragujevac is only the first of the three factories to be announced, which, together with Simens, is open because of this, and we also had opportunities in Zrenjanin to see factories coming with the promotion of new technologies related to the IT sector. So the voting day should support such a law, especially when we talk about the Central Register, because, by supporting such a law, we are fighting not only for economic reforms, but for the digitisation of Serbia, for the fight against the gray economy and for the creation of new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51489	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51490	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security is part of legislation that will comply with EU rules and in the EU accession process Serbia is progressing and continuing with reforms. So on December 10th, we have the opening of two new chapters, which is important for the accession process itself, but which, on the other hand, means that Serbia has made good progress on the way to the EU accession process, because some progress is needed in the chapters that have already been opened. In particular, Chapters 23 and 24, relating to the rule of law, and Chapter 35, relating to the implementation of the Brussels Agreement and the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. Of course, what the government was doing, as did President Aleksandar Vukic himself, is the development of economy, economy, investment in infrastructure and capital investment. So we have a new factory in Kragujevac with 1,000 new jobs. We also have an announcement for factories in Chačka and Mupriya. Serbia has about 10% more investment than last year, more than 50% of foreign direct investment, as the government led a policy of stabilising finance and developing the economy and providing certain security to investors. The average salary in Serbia will be 465 euros in January. In line with everything, I believe that this budget was also made realistic, that it was well planned, and I will be very happy to support in the voting day all the proposals that came from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51491	The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana R. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Snezana R. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51492	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members, to Article 4. I have tabled an amendment, which, by adding a new stance 4, encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to tax liability. A well-planned budget, with adequate control of its implementation, is a prerequisite for the country's development and improvement of citizens' standards of living and represents the highest level of tax liability. The budget for 2019 is balanced, characterised by the social and development aspects. The social one is aimed at increasing wages and pensions and the developmental one, as it foresees significant allocations for capital investments that will certainly boost further GDP growth. The data that as much as 30% of the budget for 2019 is planned for capital investments compared to 2018 are unequivocally in favour of the continuation of accelerated GDP growth. With the final stabilisation of public finances, the crisis measures implemented in previous years for fiscal consolidation ceased to apply. Given that fiscal space has been evenly exploited, the budget envisions an increase in both salaries and pensions of around 1.3% of GDP. A very important component of the budget is the redundancy of the economy, where a set of tax laws allows for reliefs that will help businesses to be stronger and more competitive. The recovery of the economy, above all, will encourage economic growth through the reduction of the tax burden of labour, which will enable the creation of new jobs, the overall development of the country and the better living standards of citizens. In voting day, we will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51493	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51494	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. For the sake of citizens to say that it is this Article 4 in the first position that says that for the establishment and management of a single base and other business established by this law the Government has established the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, so that this article defines the Government as the founder and, as I have said in previous amendments, that the funds for its work have already been provided in the 2018 budget. But there's something I'd like to say. A short time ago, colleague Jasmina Obradovic read with which delay the previous government, or yellow, had adopted the budget with which calendar delays, but she should have mentioned more, because she knows, there are also some fellow Members who are long-term, that from 2007 to 2012, there was no year that there were no budget rebalances. These young MPs sat and certainly did not attend budget rebalancing, and during the previous government there was no year, the budget was adopted in June, in September and October we had budget rebalances. Of course, it was all evidence of their disastrous economic, economic policy, robbery privatisation. This 2019 budget clearly shows that it wants to continue with faster growth, with faster raising of citizens' living standards, to ensure the existential and social security of every citizen of our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51495	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51496	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the previous four years, the government of Aleksandar Vukic and the government of Ana Brnabic have indeed done a great deal for the benefit of Serbian citizens. This is witnessed by a number of results, which are: a surplus in the budget three years in a row, for the first ten months we have a surplus of 68 billion dinars. Then, the public debt reduction from 77% of GDP to 54.1%, as it stands at this point with a trend of major reductions. Then we have economic growth the largest in the region, the third in Europe. For the first nine months, economic growth is 4.9%, according to official data from the Republic Statistics Institute. Then we managed to employ 370,000 workers, build infrastructure, etc. One whole day wouldn't have been enough for me or my colleagues to bring out everything our government has done in the past four years. As someone who comes from Toplicia County, as someone who comes from Kursumlia, I am pleased that the budget for 2019 provides for the construction of the highway E-80 and this section Nis – Pločnik. It is very much done at the beginning of the realisation and construction of the highway and I can say for sure that, after the construction of the highway, the picture of the Toplic district will be completely changed in terms of agriculture, and in terms of economy and tourism and trade. So all that our government is doing is in the role of the best interests of Serbia's citizens and in the function of our country's growth and development on a level-based basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51497	Dear MPs, we've just taken advantage of time per article 158 of Section 4. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Yeah, those who have the time left can come forward. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Jevtic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bojan Bagica. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Komlenski. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Ambassador Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Member Dubravka Filipovski. Let's just switch, somebody else to keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51498	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Desanka Repac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was tabled by Serbian MP Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stanislav Janjosevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by MPplatimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Customs law. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 206 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 209 of the amendment, the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic to Article 269. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 270 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 271 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51499	Mr. Arsic, I'm reporting under Article 27. I really ask you to do every once in a while what we have told you at all the previous sessions. So when you start that, we're on direct television, saying that nobody wants to say it, that's not true. We have tried to explain to you that you need to change that synopsis of yours, because it really offends the dignity of all the MPs who have submitted amendments to the proposal for customs law. Now we can't, nor can we, colleague Sarovic, whom you are now reading, nor can we, any of us, say the key things to this law. Mr. Mali, we have a situation that we, as MPs, have asked Dr. Neboja Stefanovic, Minister of the Interior, cannot get a report from the competent authorities whether Rasim LJajic, as Deputy Prime Minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51500	My colleague Jovanovic, as I have so far, has not broken any rules of the Rules of Procedure. So, the president of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's assembly has informed her that she has ceased law in accordance with Article 158. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I did not take advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You used it. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic to Article 272. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to the title above members of 280th and 280th. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE FOR 2019. A year with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Insurance for 2019 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 and with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the One year, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the National Employment Service for 2019. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. YOU have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected the amendments of the People's MPs: Zoran Zivković, named Glava 1, to Article 8 and to the title of Glava 3, Tatjana Macure, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandro Stevanović, Nenada Bozic and LJupke Mihajlovska, to Article 1, Aleksandra Jerkov to Articles 1 and 5, Sonja Pavlovic to Article 5, Milan Lapčević to Article 8, Radoslav Milojičić to Article 8, Jovan Jovanovic to Article 8, Aleksandra Cabraj to Article 8, Dejan Radenković to Article 8, Gorica Gajic to Article 8, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanovic to Article 36. It's a bill of law. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51501	Here, this time was saved so that we would have a few minutes to, first of all, draw the public's attention that happiness was good will and true parliamentary democracy by the assembly majority, in fact, the Budget Law would be a fundamental topic and a key topic of this session. But, here, we have submitted 100 amendments to the Budget Law, but unfortunately, there will be no opportunity to talk about them, but in general several key things that are of great importance, I repeat again, first of all, for the sake of the public. We have here a complete overview of the spending of budget funds, i.e. a picture of what all budget funds are being spent on, I don't know, there are ministries, agencies, which are completely unnecessary, especially, let's say, the Anti-Corruption Agency, because at the same time the Anti-Corruption Council is being funded, and you've inherited it from those yellow and persistent ones, just to place your people in both places, you insist on funding it, the Fiscal Council, to ask us what you pay for, we don't know, the Serbian Development Agency, what this Agency does, where it develops, no one knows. Then, we have 24 administrations with 26 police and six tax administrations, so then there's, I don't know, the Administration of both agricultural payments and agricultural land. So, you're just administrations, agencies... Now, the key question, Minister Sinisha Mali - why are you funding the Quick Answer Authority? What is that in Serbia anyway? Is there even a budget aside from giving someone money on behalf of what you once promised in the campaign to the Quick Answers Agency? Well, we have 10 institutions, seven directorates, two secretariats, 28 funds, then 20 institutions and 41 cultural institutions, and six centers, 12 other organizations, and 13 offices. Well, respected citizens of Serbia, you do well to cope with what is being financed here. Well, 39 republican, public and state-owned enterprises, so 21 companies, well 207, well, health institutions, that's fine, it needs and more, it's not disputed. Also, 1984 educational institutions, and that's not disputed either, it's only controversial that you're closing the disputed institutions, not that you're really funding them. And we have the funding of 20 councils of national minorities and information, 12, information and culture of national minorities. Of course we have no objection to the existence of the councils of national minorities and we have no objection to these advices being financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, on the contrary. But national minority councils must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as is done by the rebel national minority, Hungarian, Russian, not to list, Slovak, Vlach, Roma, all those financed here within these 20 national minorities. But we, ladies and gentlemen, and respected citizens of Serbia, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, also finance a Bosniak national minority, i.e. their council, in fact, finance, finance, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, Esad Djužu, Sulejman Ugljanin and their mentor and their connective tissue, Rasim Ljajic. And that's the problem. Esad Djudz, as soon as Rasim Ljajic helped him become president of the Bosniak National Council, he is on social networks and in some media, where he was enabled, showing what it looks like to be a torn-up Republic of Serbia directed by Ljajic, Djuja and this Sulejman Ugljanin. Sulejman Ugljanin, while in the campaign, said that the state of Serbia was a fascist creature and spoke – we will destroy it together, referring to his now Wakat coalition, organised by Rasim Ljajic. And that's a serious problem. We tried, drawing attention to this behaviour by Rasim Ljajic, to invite both the president of the state and the ministers, his colleagues, still, and the Prime Minister, to take action to at least eliminate him from the government of the Republic of Serbia for a start. No one's responding. We asked the minister of police, we asked him to inform and arrange with the director of the police, who has a lot of information that we have provided here. No one's responding. Now we call Zagorka Dolovac, it's time for the public prosecutor to wake up from his winter dream. It cannot be tolerated for someone to be Deputy Prime Minister, to seek Serbia's dispersion, to show on the cards what it will look like, to accept that Serbia is a fascist creation, that you did not allow Natasha to finish just now because she mentioned customs and Rasim Ljajic, that his trucks are being released knows what customs crossings they are carrying to Serbia, Mr. Sinisa Mali. Em puts their hands on citizens because they don't charge the budget, so other taxpayers have to bring drugs to Serbia and other illegal assets. So, it's your Deputy Prime Minister, screaming all you want, and we insist, Mr. Arsic, we insist that Zagorka Dolovac... (Jasmina Karanac: What are you talking about? ) You can't do this, don't interrupt me, you can't judge me, you can only have the competent authorities of the MUP and the Attorney General and we insist that the team deal with it, otherwise we will have to deal with them here in the way that MPs should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51502	The word has a National MP Milorad Mijatovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51503	I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia. For days now, I've been explaining how the SRS has been making up affairs, making up lies, making up lies. She does it all the time and we know why, because they were hired, they got the money to do it. Okay, we're fighting the truth, like I said. You are indeed this foreign opposition, but we will always answer to you... They're opposition to us, and I know why, because you're in pain of the truth. You're in pain for the simple reason, because your dictionary is such, elimination, hear, elimination, target. It's your dictionary of the 1990s, so you keep going, and that's why you caused a very big accident to the Serbian people, but it doesn't matter why. I want to say what this is about. The National Council of Bosniaks is constantly mentioned. Gentlemen, national councils have a clear function and let them operate in accordance with the laws of the Serbian state and finance themselves according to the laws of the state. If they do not comply with the law, the state has instruments to react and therefore do not push what is not true. That's really not true. No one will say that Rasim Ljajic is a factor of peace, he is indeed doing everything that this part of the Raška area, Sandzak, really is a factor of peace. The Bosniak National Council will continue to be and do not worry. Let the Bosniaks worry about what to do and how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51504	The word is made by the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51505	Mr. Arsic, a member of 107 has been injured and the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. You were obliged to point that out to the previous speaker, who here has some historical guilt set out on Serbian radicals. You know, the party that is in power from October 5th to today is responsible for everything that happened in the country from October 5th to today and for declaring Kosovo's independence, and for the secession of Montenegro, and for all possible crises from financial to all others. So for everything that's happened, they're responsible for it, and they're telling us about the future today. It's a little paradox, you have to agree. So the party talks about how we are in the past, that party, and they never existed. Tell me, please, does anyone know any of their election results? Where did they go to the polls on their own? What have they done? What's their score? On the other hand, when it comes to the Bosniak National Council, it is clear, therefore, that Sulejman Ugljanin said that, all the televisions have passed on, Serbia is a fascist creation, we will fight it. Esad Djuja has published a map of Serbia's dispersed without Sandzak, Kosovo and Vojvodina. Let's hear the answer why you chose this man, why are you with him in the coalition? We only listen when someone from that party is trying to answer us, just some empty story. We haven't heard the reason why the party made a coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin and chose Esad Juju. What's the reason? One announcement for all MPs, especially the head of the party's parliamentary group, Rasim Ljajic. Comrade Tito died 38 years ago. The other Tito is gone, so it may have come as a surprise to you now, but you'll just have to make peace with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51506	A colleague of Seselj, each has the right to express his political position in the National Assembly, that is, a place, and as far as responsibility is concerned, what anyone has done in governments, various, so far, it is also their business and they decide on it. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51507	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so the viewers don't get it wrong. The list of administrations, which are allegedly not needed, lists the Agrarian Payments Authority. I have to say that this is a very important administration, given that the funds for subsidies and incentives have been increased. They're from our budget, 41 billion and 580 million. This compared to 2012, although they claim there, as they have reduced subsidies, 110% higher. They singled out 19 billion. The same course was, the same country, the same number of farmers. We're adopting 41 billion 580 million for next year. Why does management matter? She has 114 employees. I will compare it with Croatia which has four times less land and four times less farmers. Croatia has about 600 employees in its Agrarian Payments Authority. So we have five times less and our Agrarian Payments Authority has processed over 350,000 demands this year. It is also very important because of IPARD funds, because unless we have at least 113 employees, we cannot use 184m euros to arrive in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51508	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, has the amendment been submitted by MP Petar Jojic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A colleague named Djurishic, on what basis did you answer? (Marco Djurisic: By chance, let me slow you down a bit.) To catch the air. Thank you for your concern. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? (Goran Ciric: Yes. Just a moment while I check. You don't have time. (Goran Ciric: For my amendment. You don't have time on any basis. (Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ćirić: By Business! I now set a break until 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives accepted the amendment, and it considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group Free Members together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Marina Ristic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51510	We, I said, have already submitted a hundred amendments to the draft budget law, and we have not accepted either in principle the position or the minister, in fact the only Minister Mali has said about it, that this, I don't know, development budget, that this budget will help any citizen or any group, and our basic objections are to the fact that we haven't seen how the previous budgets have been spent in all these years, and as long as we don't have an insight into what you're telling us in some budget that is being adopted. If this budget goes through this year budget, next, if we don't have information about how this budget was used, we won't be able to trust you. We simply cannot trust the government of the Republic of Serbia to have so many ministers with open affairs. We've opened affairs for five ministers and none of the authorities are responding. Your behavior on the system – you can trust us, you'll get a heads-up. It's a lot to everyone who thought that with 126, you've got more, but anyway, with 126 green tasters, you can do whatever you want. You, when you have a congregation majority, can vote that the country is a flat panel, but make sure that the country remains round after that. So, Mr. Sinisa Mali, tell Ana Brnabic, first, that we resented her for not being here to talk about the draft budget law. That doesn't mean that you weren't supposed to be there, as you were, this is a good part of the law for which you, as a resolute minister, are competent all ministers individually. You can't control either the Minister of Education, nor the Minister of Health, nor the Minister of Sport, or the Minister of Building, I'm talking about all about ministers we've opened up to affairs that none of the authorities react to, and especially you can't control Minister Ljajic, who is also the Deputy Prime Minister. You gave these ministers through this budget big funds, and they all showed in the previous period that they had misused functions, that they were stealing state money, that they were stealing the state budget, and you know, letting a goat keep the cabbage is something that is absolutely unacceptable. The affair, which is the strongest and most serious, is an affair related to Rasim Ljajic, on a number of grounds, and I will now use this minute or two to remind the public of Serbia that we have warned both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and all ministers in the government that they must release the service of Rasim Ljajic if they wish to preserve the face of the Serbian state. Rasim Ljajic is a man for whom hundreds of pages have written texts that he is involved in the drug mafia. We've been bringing out here and the Minister specific information about a particular action that all papers are being removed from the public, which was also a practice and those before you to remove the papers and you don't think it can be traced. Rasim Ljajic, I guess, is now to protect himself from what we are familiar with Serbia's public, he has reached out to the worst that can happen, which is to negotiate with some women the embassies of Great Britain, the liquidation of Vojislav Seselj. You know, this whole thing about him has been released, and it can't come back when the feathers shake out of the pillow and don't bring anyone back. He can kill us all, but the fact that it went public, it'll stay public.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51511	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51512	What the hell? I had five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51513	There's not five minutes. Four minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51514	Then you're not doing well with the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51515	It's a great system. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51516	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think the previous speaker respected the dignity of the National Assembly. I apologize to her, because before I called her a pay phone, she said she wasn't a pay phone, but a speaker, if she says so, I accept it. Here, now I've corrected myself, because I want to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. There are three types of people in politics - politicians, politicians and politicians. I am a graduate politician and I know well that the National Assembly is a place where political attitudes, political values, different beliefs, and all of this is legitimate. But as a politician, I don't want this Assembly to become a place where, without cover, it's going to be a continuous lie, where it's going to be false on any basis. We just heard that ministers, several ministers were named and given a metaphor that they were goats who kept the cabbage. You were obliged to interrupt the previous speaker. An inappropriate dictionary is not suitable for this home. Simply, we from the SDPS will try to express ourselves in the future as we have so far, and as this is in accordance with our manners and our education, we express ourselves politely in this home. We don't want anyone to make one out of this house, I apologize for saying so, but I can't find another word - a political den, to drag us all into it, and then to get us into experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51517	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51518	I understand, of course, the need for Ljajic's MPs to report to defend themselves, to the soul, I don't know if they're all aware, some of them have obviously become, that they can't defend themselves, or they can try and it's absolutely their right and we don't dispute anything they're saying, all right, we are who we are, they are, but what they say from these MPs is obviously their fear, everything that's happening in the state of Serbia, may cause some early elections, but their panic and their fear is what they're going to do for the next election. They've never been to an independent election before. Now they're aware that after opening these affairs, no one's gonna put them on their list. Now, they're trying individually to see who might be good enough to have someone take it on the list individually. They are no longer interested in their party, nor Rasim Ljajic, this is the personal struggle of the group of MPs who came by chance to the National Assembly, which they cannot say about anyone who went to the elections, who was voted for and who received as many votes as he had received. So Rasim Ljajic's party in Serbia has never received a single vote in the elections. As far as Boris Tadic used to be, and now Vukic had mercy on them as Sadak, yes, so many mandates have. As much as they are given ministerial functions, state secretaries, public enterprises, it's all about the combination and the matter of the deal, and what we're worried about is if only those combinations and arrangements are the problem that Rasim is still in government, then the government has a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51519	Thank you. I've been waiting two minutes for Radet's colleague to tell me what grounds the Rules of Procedure has been broken, you haven't. Therefore, I can only conclude that you, through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, expressed your political position as a fellow member of the party, Rasim Ljajic. You don't need to take care of them, they can take care of themselves. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Mihajlović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51520	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. It's true that the SRS sows fear, but we're not afraid. We're not afraid, though they've been drawing an uninterrupted target on Rasim Ljajic's forehead for months. One more time, I will quote a colleague from the SRS – do not think that you will not be the next target of Vojislav Seselj, as is now Rasim Ljajic. I think it's clear, SRS MPs are obsessively continuing to defile Rasim Ljajic, with lies, after a failed and united action with Zukorlic. They have a new agenda now. The agenda is done at all costs to Rasim Ljajic. If they were to become a coalition partner of the SNS, it wouldn't happen, I'm quite sure. Not that it's not going to happen now, it's never really going to happen that the SRS has a coalition partner, because with them nobody will, at least not officially, and with the SDPS everybody wants. Whether there will be an emergency or regular election, the SDPS will sit in these benches, and the SRS will not be. I understand that frustration. The fate of the SRS is not easy to bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51521	Let me ask you to move on. On Article 4 of the amendment, a Member of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm sorry I'm not asking if anyone's answering after this, since the time on this basis is exhausted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Parliament of Alexander Chabrai. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted to the same text by legislators Aleksandra Jerkov and Zoran Zivkovic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. On the 8th amendment, with the correction, he submitted to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I would like the representative of the Proposer to make a statement on the correction of the amendment. Do you accept? You plead, and I'll do it again. (Zoran Djordjevic: Sustained. ) Amendments are accepted. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was filed by the MP Alexander Jerkov. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić and Jasmina Karanac. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Veroljub Arsic and Ivana Stojiljkovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The committee in charge accepted the amendment, so the amendment became an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. (Jorge Vukadinović: word, word? Please, I need you to sign in. Let me just check your time. Authorized, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51522	Thank you. This is, therefore, an amendment targeting funds in the budget and from the budget foreseen for gondola in the social context. So, Mr. Djordjevic should be pleased, instead of the famous Belgrade gondola, always needed funds, and we think this would mean that the funds provided for in the Belgrade gondola are directed to protect families and children. It is a sum of about sevenm euros, which is not insignificant at all. On the other hand, I have to say for the sake of both the public and the citizens that what MPs are now not responding to the amendments that have been read is the consequence of the fact that the time for the debate on amendments has passed. So what's left now and what I'm saying is, as the president said, but maybe it wasn't heard, that's the time left for the parliamentary group to say. So the amendment time of 600 minutes went to, I say, a pointless reading of amendments to the ruling coalition and MPs of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51523	That's not true. No, it's not true. Please don't. Please, look at the structure of the amendment, here all MPs have proposed amendments. Don't say the MPs have proposed pointless amendments. (Bosko Obradovic: What are you interrupting MPs for? ) Please don’t warn me, I take care of time and do not steal time. Time will be restored. Unable to enter the air of untruth regarding the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Are you yelling at Vukadinovic, I'm wearing a very large dioptria, so I can't see is that you're someone else? [[Bosko Obradovic: You pick up the replica, then speak.]] You don't, okay. You have four minutes and 22 seconds, I'm keeping an eye on you, just don't make any mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51524	Madam President, I think it would be a real happiness for this Parliament and for this society that what I say and that these are false and that these are the only false things to be heard. So, I don't think I've made a lie, but there's been a lot of rumors here, and then a lot of times the untrue becomes true, or at least someone thinks of some propaganda, that's how the propaganda manuals read it. So it's not false, it's true that these are now the first amendments and first discussions on the subject of the budget. All that was heard in the previous two days of this debate in particular and according to the amendments were amendments and that is the fact, and that is true, dear Mrs Gojkovic, were amendments to the first members, to the first four members of the first item of the agenda. The public must know, whether they liked me or not, whether they liked the opposition or not, or loved something third, fourth, that there was no discussion about the budget in particular. There hasn't been a single amendment. Why does it matter? On the side that it is a bad picture that the most important law is not discussed, only if someone packed all the discussion in breach of the Rules of Procedure, so the chairman was generous to allow that breach of the Rules of Procedure, something concrete could be said about these amendments. It's just that we think this gondola thing is just one example. We also had a proposal that concerned, in my opinion, the amendment concerning the construction of a national stadium for 250m euros, which is absolutely in my opinion, in the opinion of most opposition colleagues unacceptable in the situation in the country and the circumstances in which Serbian citizens live, and some other things, that I should only go to what is incontestable. So whether you like it or not, this session will pass, this budget will pass that almost one or two, three things, no item, no amendment to the draft budget itself will be discussed. That's a fact. We can agree on a lot of things from the opposition. Me and my colleague Bosko Obradović disagree on many things, we are different people, different temperaments, different methodology, but everyone on the left and right of me colleagues, everyone knows, as well as a good part of colleagues from the ruling coalition, that this is some kind of mud, some kind of collective shame to adopt the budget in this way. There must be good things, there are rational things, I wish I could hear Mr. Little, Minister of Small, to explain why this is good. We are, in a way, collectively humiliated both as citizens and as MPs for not having the opportunity to speak concrete items, or concrete objections to this budget, except for the time left for us or for which we had as parliamentary groups. The amendments were timed in such a way, i.e. the time foreseen for amendments, which was 600 minutes by reading their compositions from the ruling coalition on the topic of the first item of the agenda, which is of no importance at all. That's the fact, Madam President. It's something we can't get past. You have been relatively tolerated in previous days, allowing the opposition's voice to be heard, but our system voice here has been simply annulled by working exactly one year in the same way and it is the responsibility of you, as Parliament's president, to admit it, is too large and cannot be prevented. You had to in some way appeal to the parliamentary majority, not to propose such a kind of amendment, because it is, as I said, a collective collapse of Parliament's dignity. So much for that. So, no one from the opposition, no matter whether they're a little bit more or less comfortable with it, can accept it. We used to boycott, we used to attend, I used to talk here, and I suffered attacks, calls, warnings and punishments. This kind of debate on the most important points of the agenda, on the most important topic the Assembly has, simply cannot be tolerated, not to talk about Kosovo and Metohija which is not a topic in this House, not to talk about other things. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51525	Thank you very much, MP. For the sake of the public, I must say that your group has submitted to the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 three amendments, and to the law we are now discussing, amending and supplementing the budget, one amendment. So what you said absolutely does not match the truth. Your group has six minutes to discuss all points connected, not connected, however you will, and 15 minutes of authorized representative that you have used. I'm saying this for the public, it's not a replica. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. The 12th amendment was submitted by Goran Ciric. The 12th Amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 12th amendment. (Balsa Bozovic: After the amendment. After the amendment? Radoslav Milojic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Goran Ciric submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. By amendment, by the Rules of Procedure, come on. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. Don't make a mess, you know you don't have time. Not by force at my place, on the second shift. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. In order for the viewers to know what this is about, MPs cannot get a word because time has been spent under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic: You stole our time. You stole 12 years of my life from me, so we can't measure ourselves. (Marco Djurisic: You stole 15 years from us. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You have a warning. You have a warning, MP Balsa Bozovic, because you are obstructing the work of parliament and everything in line with the Rules of Procedure. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The 17th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 18th amendment. On Article 18, the People's MP, Dr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Sonja Pavlovic. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 21st amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. On Article 25, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 26th amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 29, was added by a new member of 29a, MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. We understand each other, there's no obstruction. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 36th amendment. The 39th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 41st Amendment. Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular, and we will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, since I am holding the Rules of Procedure and I am doing nothing but what the Rules of Procedure has given me, and it is only that... (Bosko Obradovic: You don't even know what I'm going to say.) I don't know. I'm asking you not to apply any warnings, we're adults, we know why you want this. Let's move on. (Maya Vidinovic: We haven't wasted any time.) You've wasted your time, I can't make up your time. I can't break the Rules of Procedure. You know, I've been working since 6:00 a.m., and you've come a little more rested than me, so I'm asking you to understand, for those of you who only work this afternoon. So we've reached the point of the 5th agenda. I say this because of the citizens of Serbia and the MPs who came later, according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we have spent time to debate. (Maya Vidinovic: Who spent time? ) You've got it on your computer, look, my God. We move to point 5 - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the BUDGETING SYSTEM I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, who cannot get time in the debate because time has been spent on the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 7th amendment. Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular, and we will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in particular. We move to the 6th point – Proposal for a Law on the Customs Service I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 17th amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 26th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 28th amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 38th amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Member of the 42nd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, submitted to the 82nd Amendment. Since we have completed the search for these amendments, I am concluding the draft law in particular, and in the voting day we will decide on this law in principle and in particular. We move to the 7th point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Property I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The People's MPs, Natasha Sp, submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning because you are obstructing the work of Parliament. (Bosko Obradovic: Why a reminder, please? I just wanted to check your warning. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't do this. You have a warning and you do not have permission to approach the chairman. (Bosko Obradovic: Where did you get this right? You have no right, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No idea. Bad play for the third time, the third day it repeats itself is sad. Marko Djurisic: What is sitting? You have a warning, you cannot insult the Vice President of Parliament. Take your hands out of your pockets, and you cannot shout at him; whatever sits, whatever sits. This isn't a bar. You have another warning. Make sure there's a warning. Obradovic has three and Marko Djurisic has two. Marko Djurisic: Give me your word. On what grounds don't you give me your word? ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Jovanovic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 13th amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 16th amendment. We have completed the search of this law in particular, and in the day of voting we will decide on the law in principle and in particular. We move on to the 8th point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. In the voting day, we will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Games on Happiness I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular after we have carried out a review of the law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to - Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. The second amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. The 11th amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. The 12th amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. And since we have completed the search on all amendments, I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular, and we will decide in the voting day on the law on details and in general. We're moving on to - a bill on amendments and amendments to public debt laws. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. As time is spent under the rules of the Rules of Procedure for the debate, MPs are unable to discuss it. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, Natasa Jovanovic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, Ruzica Nikolic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Sreto Peric and Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. After we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, we will decide on the law in the voting day. We're moving on to - a bill on amendments and additions to the law on the refund of property and restitution. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The first amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Vjerica Radeta and together by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and jointly by Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivković. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, Natasa Jovanovic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran and Zdravko Stankovic and together Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, Ruzica Nikolic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and together Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivković submitted the same text. The 3rd Amendment was filed by Olena Papug. The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Sreto Perić and jointly by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Aleksandar Seselj and together by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and jointly Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivković. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić and jointly by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and jointly by Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivković. After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular and in the voting day we will decide on the law in principle and in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51526	We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Duvan Law. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, are MPs Milorad Mircic and together MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament's MPs of the SDS together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 54 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 56 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 64 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 65 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 68 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 70 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We continue to discuss in particular the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law, you have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 15th point of the agenda and debate in particular – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law, you have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment will be submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax, discussion in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law, you have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and together by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MPs Sreto Peric and the MPs of the SDS together submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of Alexander Belačić, with a correction, and together with the MPs of the SDS group, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Aleksandra Belačić and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment are joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Miljan Damjanovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We are moving to a debate in detail on the 17th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of Taxes on Property You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Komlenski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51527	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 with the intention to further clarify and specify the way of applying the already existing law and attitude of the 1st member, who says that property rights, i.e. property rights on land up to 10 acres, are not charged tax on property, because it does not constitute a tax base. In that sense, I did suggest adding point 4. In practice, this is a change compared to what the Government has proposed through changes and additions, that when tax is paid on the right referred to in Article 1(1) and (3) of this Article, subject to taxation, the total area of that land reduced by the first 10 acres, to which no property tax is paid. This, in practice, should and should mean that all that is more than 10 acres is the basis for paying tax on property, and what is up to 10 acres and for those owners who have larger surfaces, simply, is not subject to and does not constitute a basis for tax on property. The explanation I received, which says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment proposes to introduce an idea that is not clearly defined, the first 10 acres, I think is not appropriate, because this is exactly the same term that would clearly explain that the area up to 10 acres is not taken as a tax base and is precisely referring to attitude 1 which already exists in the law. So this is where the question arises whether in practice we will continue to apply this law in two different ways, which is that if someone has 18 acres of land we charge property tax on eight acres or all 18? I think it's absolutely fair that on the very first 10 acres, which are not normally a tax base, no one pays a tax on property, because the Ministry itself has defined to keep it as a limit value, and I ask you to reconsider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51528	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Komlenski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51529	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think we understood again when the amendment was made by the proposings, and there's no way that this could be a double reduction in the corresponding property tax if this amendment were accepted. This is about avoiding double taxation of the same surface. So, the land under the building, under which the property tax is paid in no way, in my opinion, should not be the basis for the tax on property, and this is what's required. Of course it's very clear and defined on my part. I think that this principle of double taxation as a principle that we in principle want to apply in all areas when it comes to tax, not only when the property tax has been applied in a negotiated way in this legislative part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51530	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the debate in particular on the 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Compensation for Use of Public Goods You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Muamer Bačeva, Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenković, Jasmina Karanac, Milena Bicanin, Branimir Jovanovic, Milorad Mijatović, Natasa Mihajlović Vacic and Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers this amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51531	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The MPs of the SDPS have submitted amendments to the draft law on compensation for the use of public goods and we have dealt seriously with this law, because it has a major impact on the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. In Article 116. The proposal for a law on compensation for the use of public goods has been proposed to delete attitude 3 and this amendment has been adopted. I'll explain. Item 3, whose erasure is proposed, allows for the introduction of new fees without amending the law, which is contrary to the very purpose of adopting this law. The introduction of any new compensation to the regulation constitutes a retention of the current way of regulating this area for some future fees and undermining efforts to ensure transparency and predictability of the legal framework which determines public taxes as the key objectives of improving business conditions. The procedure providing for the highest transparency, predictability and analysis of the effects, i.e. the justification for the introduction of new fees, is precisely the process of changing the law. If the impact analysis shows that the need to introduce new fees is justified and its implementation will be more effective if it is prescribed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51532	The 134th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Muamer Bačeva, Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenković, Jasmina Karanac, Milena Bicanin, Branimir Jovanovic, Milorad Mijatović, Natasa Mihajlović Vacic and Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51533	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. And this is another amendment proposed by the SDPS parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on compensation for the use of public goods, which was adopted, as well as on improving the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. It is good that the government recognized the efforts and our desire to create more stable and predictable conditions when we talk about paying compensation imposed on private entities or creating obligations for the next period. In Article 134(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The proposal for a law on compensation for the use of public goods is amended and reads: “The criteria for determining the activities affecting the environment (hereinafter referred to as activities) according to the amount of pollution, or the degree of negative impact on the environment resulting from the exercise of activities as a certain compensation for certain items 1 point 1) of the article under the amounts prescribed in Annex 6, Table 2, of this Act, conditions for the exemption from the payment of compensation or its reduction, as well as criteria which are relevant for the impact of natural persons on the environment, shall be amended by the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, whose competences are in matters of environmental protection”. With this, we wanted to regulate environmental protection and improvement benefits must contain a mechanism that encourages applicants to reduce emissions of pollution, i.e. their negative impact on the environment, invest in improving production technology, clean up matter, solid, liquid or gas-y, which are created in the production process and which can have a negative impact on the environment. Without this mechanism, the same burden could be borne by bonds that invest in environmental protection and those who do not have such investments. This would greatly discourage the activities of the obligors to reduce or eliminate pollution, i.e. a negative environmental impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51534	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Muamer Bačevac, Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenković, Jasmina Karanac, Milena Bacanin, Branimir Jovanovic, Milorad Mijatovic, Natasa Mihailović Vacic and Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. A colleague of Slavica Zivkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Article 135(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The proposal for a law on compensation for the use of public goods, the words "achieved revenue from carrying out that activity", is replaced by the words "the amount of pollution, i.e. the degree of negative impact on the environment, resulting from activities". Item 2 is deleted. In order to ensure the achievement of the objectives, the introduction of environmental protection and improvement fees, reduction or elimination of pollution, it is necessary that the base of the compensation is directly linked to the pollution emissions created by the obligor through its activities. This ensures that the higher and total amount of compensation is paid by bonds that pollute the environment more. If the proposed solution remains, an increased volume of sales could occur, achieved with a reduction in pollution emissions, leading to a greater fiscal burden on production companies. In addition, taxation of total income, which is essentially the proposed solution, is in parallel completely abandoned as very bad and strong. Taxation of total income basically represents both taxation and profit and cost of production. Once again, I would like to stress that it is very good that the Government has recognised our desire and our intention to make as much of our amendments as possible to make our contribution as possible to a more stable economic environment in the Republic of Serbia and predictability of determining compensation for companies as possible, as well as physically, in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51536	I thank you For Article 246 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 247 of the amendment, MP Alexander Seselj submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Muamer Bačevac, Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenković, Jasmina Karanac, Milena Bicanin, Branimir Jovanovic, Milorad Mijatovic, Natasa Mihailović Vacic and Vladimir Marinkovic submitted to the 276th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 279 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) In addition to Article 6 of the amendment, MP Aleksandra Tomic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Muamer Bačevac, Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic, Jasmina Karanac, Milena Bicanin, Branimir Jovanovic, Milorad Mijatović, Natasa Mihailović Vacic and Vladimir Marinkovic Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Provisional Editing of Bases for the Accounting and Payment of Salaries, i.e. Profits and Other Permanent Receipts of Public Assets Users. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Aleksandra Tomic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda – the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank "Intez" a.d. Belgrade for the reconciliation of the commitments of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, under the Treaty of Credit for the Construction of the Development Gas pipeline Aleksandrovac-Brus-Kopalnik-Raška-Novi Pazar-Tutin (III stage) you have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 24th item of the agenda – Proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Sociale Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Banka "Postal Savings" a.d., OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad by JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, under the Treaty of Credit for the Construction of Gas pipelines on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, decide only on the draft law in general. We move to the 26th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and together by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of Natapa Sp. Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 27th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on bankruptcy. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 28th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Investments You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and together by MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Sreto Peric and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Belačić and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dubravko Bojic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Miljan Damjanovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 10th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bozidar Delic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Goran Bogdanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Despotovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Petar Jojic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Tomislav LJubenović and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Momcilo Mandic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic and the MPs of the SDS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marina Ristic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Filip Stojanovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Nemanja Sarovic and the MPs of the SDS, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Party of Radet and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 29th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judicial Taxes You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 30th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Working Time of the crew and vehicles in the Drums Transport and Tahografs You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment with the correction. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51537	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51538	Thank you. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 31st point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF COMMUNAL ACTIVITIES You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 32nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure of WRITES IN THE CASTER OF IMPLEMENTATION AND WATERS You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment in the same text was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, and together by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS group together submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51539	The amendment to Article 3 was submitted for the reason it should put all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in an equal position. I think that this amendment has even been accepted at the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, if I am not mistaken, I have not had time to check it, as well as the previous amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. I haven't checked the records, but it's about the next thing. If the legislator has already defined that a note has been made, that the registration of property rights is carried out under the contracts concluded before 1 September 2014 and that that type of notation may be made by the party interested in being deleted, if it provides an appropriate confirmation from the competent court, the amendment that I have proposed is aimed at preventing the possibility that because the court does not possess an archive and evidence of something, the party cannot suffer. In fact, we have a situation that the archives of the Court of Defense, concluded at about 2013, have been completely destroyed. The citizens of Obrenovac can never obtain confirmation that the contract has been concluded, confirmed, before this period of time. Even if it wasn't the case of the Obrenovac, it is the case that archives and the court have no evidence of the verdict, of the contract, of anything, it's not the party's fault, it's a mistake and it's the responsibility of the state authority to keep it information and evidence permanently. The reason and justification that is said to be possible for counterfeit contracts is neither a job nor a catastra, nor anyone else to assess whether it is an invalid contract. It is known what is the obligation of any state authority or public authority employed, if there is a suspicion that something is not certified in accordance with the law and is not similar, it is required to submit an appropriate criminal report on the basis of which the competent authorities will do so and to establish. Therefore, the objective of this amendment was to bring all citizens of the Republic of Serbia into a level playing field, at least in this situation when registration and observation are made, and that they cannot suffer the adverse consequences that could have been caused either by the fact of more force or by the impunity and irresponsibility of the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51540	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51541	It's the same situation as the last amendment. It is an amendment which is proposed that public notebooks be obliged to, in addition to all other necessary documents for the entry of the right of delivery and proof that the necessary fees prescribed by the cadastra are to be paid and proof of this will be delivered together, with all other documentation. I think that this is an amendment that absolutely goes in favour of the citizens, as well as the catastra itself, because there would be no situation where citizens have to go to the cataster, check the amount of tax they should pay, supply it retroactively, or that we are burdening the cadastre with the additional work that it has to do so far, which is to inform citizens by written means of what the amount of tax is, how much it is, even because of the change in the address that arises after that or some other problems, there are unnecessary procedures for forced collection, and this is not aimed at catastras or citizens who want the job called the registration of property rights to end in one procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51542	On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, and the MPs of the SDS, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Fund for the Science of the Republic of Serbia You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament of the Free Members together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 14. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group, Parliamentarians, together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group, Parliamentarians, together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51543	We move to the 34th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PANTS LAW to be submitted to Article 1 of the amendment by Parliament of the People, Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The 6th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The 8th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 61st amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 35th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Interim Editing of Payments Methods for Public Media Services You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Does anyone want a word? On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and together MPs of the Independent Members' Club. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Zoran Zivkovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 36th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants You have received amendments submitted by the MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendment of MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 93. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Members of Parliament of the Free Members together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by Natasa Jovanovic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and the MPs together. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The MPs of the Free MPs together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. The 32nd Amendment was filed by the Prophet Radet. The People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to the 35th amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 36 of the amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Sreto Peric submitted to the 54th amendment. On Article 61, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go, Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51544	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51545	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 75th amendment. The government and the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 79th amendment. Members of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians submitted to the 85th Amendment. The government and the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 37th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments of Civil Servants and Paid Members You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS together. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and the joint MPs of the SDS. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Sreto Peric and joint MPs of the SDS submitted. Members of the SDS together submitted to the 4th Amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 38th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Employment Laws in Autonomy Areas and Local Self-Government Units You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and together by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the SDS together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and the MPs of the SDS together. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the SDS together submitted to the 15th amendment. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 16 of the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the SDS together submitted the 19th Amendment. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and the joint MPs of the SDS. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the SDS together submitted the 26th Amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS together. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Members of the SDS together submitted amendments to Article 30. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Member of the 33rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the SDS submitted together to the 34th Amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together. Members of the SDS jointly submitted the amendment to Article 37. Members of the SDS together submitted to the 38th Amendment. Members of the SDS together submitted the 39th Amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the SDS together submitted to the 41st Amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 42 of the amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 43 of the amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to the 44th Amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 45 of the amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 46 of the amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 47 of the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 48th amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to the 49th amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 53 of the amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 55th amendment. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 39th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Payments of Officials and ASSISTANCES IN THE AUTONOMAL COUNTRY ORGANISES AND THE UNITS OF LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 40th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on the way of determining the Maksimal number of employees in the public sector You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and Social Democratic Party MPs submitted. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 41st point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments of Employment Laws in Public Service you have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and Social Democratic Party MPs submitted. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 42nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Payment System of Public Secretarys You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and Social Democratic Party MPs submitted. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 43rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the laws on salaries of employees of public agencies and other organisations which were founded by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomic Area or the Local Self-Government Unit, have adopted amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Sreto Peric and Social Democratic Party MPs submitted. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 44th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the ISPECTION Oversight Act, you have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Milorad Mircic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which added a new member of 36a after article 36a, was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 45th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementarys of Water Laws You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Filip Stojanović submitted the amendment to the bill. Božidar Delic submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted to the amendment bill. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Miljan Damjanovic submitted the amendment to the bill. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Nemanja Sarovic. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Milorad Mircic. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Petar Jojic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Marina Ristic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Dubravko Bojic. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Nikola Savic. Alexander Seselj submitted the amendment to the bill. Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The title of the Amendment Law was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The title of the Amendment Law was submitted by Verica Radet. The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, the Verity of Radita submitted. The first amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. The first amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the First Amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The first amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The first amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. The first amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The first amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Philip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The first amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. The first amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Milovan Dracun. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Natasa Sp Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. The second amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The 2nd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. The second amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The third amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The third amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The third amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 3rd amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The third amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The third amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. The third amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. The 3rd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 3rd amendment. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Milorad Mircic submitted to the 4th Amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The fourth amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Philip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted the 5th amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The 5th amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 6th amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 9th amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 10th amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 11th amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Milovan Dracun. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 12th amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 46th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Radio and Nuclear Security and Security You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the opinion of the promoters on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Here's a proposaler, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51546	I just want to take advantage of my right to say that this law is subject to an extremely large number of amendments. It is 510 amendments to the MPs and 25 amendments to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. In order to help MPs cope with these many amendments, I gave an advance opinion after the session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment on Amendments that I accepted. These are all the amendments proposed by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, but I also accepted the amendments to Ruzica Nikolic, as well as the amendments to Vjerica Radeta and two amendments to Parliament Gordana Comic. The other amendments I couldn't accept, because they're amendments, I think there are 500 in which the whole law is deleted. Even though officials here and professional associates wrote well that they could not accept it because it is the same as the view of the bill in general, it does not fit the truth at all, it is not the view of the bill's proposal in general, because the bill is extremely professional, it was a working group composed of scientists, experts from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ministry of Education and Science, as well as people working at the competent agency on radiation and nuclear security. Of course, as an MP, I have accepted that we propose this law, but it is in fact a position of me personally as a proprietor, an MP whom they do not bear. So it is necessary to ignore this view that the whole law should be deleted and my opinion on really beneficial amendments, both MPs and environmental protection committees. And I won't be answering any more in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-06-0.u51547	Thank you. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The committees have also accepted the amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the SDS parliamentary groups and together the Parliament groups of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposing committees and committees have adopted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The committees have also accepted the amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Group of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The committees in charge have accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The committees in charge also accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 16 of the amendment. The proposing committees and committees have adopted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The proposing committees and committees have adopted this amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Gojkovic. The Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The promoter has accepted the amendment. The committees have accepted the amendment, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this one has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 100 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment and the Constitutional Affairs Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Parliament group, together, submitted the same text to Article 103 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the same amendment 105. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the same amendment 109. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment and the Constitutional Affairs Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 117 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the SDS Group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted to the 120th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Parliament group, together, submitted to Article 121 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the amendment 123. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the SDS Group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Parliament group of Members together submitted to Article 127 of the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the same amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the same amendment 129. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 135 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, put together the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the 143rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 144 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the amendment 149. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, brought together the amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, submitted the same text to Article 151 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 152 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Parliament group of Members together submitted to the amendment of the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 153 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment and the Constitutional Affairs Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 154 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 155 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 156 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 157 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 158 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 159 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted to the 160th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 161 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 162 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 163 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 164 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 165 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 166 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 167 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 168 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 169 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 170 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 171 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 172 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 173 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 174 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 175 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 176 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 177 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 178 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 179 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of independent Members together submitted to the 180th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 181 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 182 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 183 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 183 of the amendment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 184 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 185 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 186 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 187 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 188 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 189 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 190 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 191 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 192 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 193 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 193 of the amendment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 194 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 195 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 196 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 197 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 198 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 199 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Parliament group of Members together submitted to the 200th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 201 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 202 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 203 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 204 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 205 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 206 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 207 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Environmental Protection has submitted to Article 207 of the amendment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 208 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 209 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 210 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 211 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 212 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 213 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 214 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Parliament together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 215 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 215 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 216 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 216 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 217 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 218 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 219 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 220 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 221 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 222 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 223 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 224 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Parliament together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 225 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 226 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 227 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 228 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 229 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 230 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 231 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 232 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 233 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 233 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 234 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 235 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 235 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 236 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 236 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 237 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 238 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 239 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 240 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 241 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 242 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 243 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 244 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 245 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 246 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 246 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 247 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 248 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 249 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on the Protection of the Environment has submitted to Article 249 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 250 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 250 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Gojkovic. The Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 47th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Right of Property in the Land, Objects and Waters of the Mining-Topionist Basin RTB ‘BOR’ D.O.O. BOR You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic and joint MPs of the SDS group, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the committees have accepted the amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Borkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Diana Vukomanovic, and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic and joint MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the people, Aleksandra Belačić, together with the MPs of Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Diana Vukomanovic, and joint MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the committees have accepted this amendment, with a correction, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Borkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic and joint MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the committees have accepted this amendment, with a correction, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Milorad Mircic, together MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic, together with the MPs of the SDS group, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs to LJiljana Mihajlovic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic, and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marina Ristic, the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic, together with the MPs of the SDS group, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Filip Stojanovic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 48th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment of Public Interest and Special Procedures of EXPRIATION AND IMPLEMENTATION TO REALIZE THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE COURT OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE SOUTH FACT. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, 7 December 2018, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue on in voting day.
