ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32238	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall. Today, only MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić reported her absence, no other MP is justifiably absent today. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider and adopt proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the factoring law be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Audit Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, abstentioned – has ever voted 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on transport of road passengers be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Accounting Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one, abstention – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, abstentioned – has ever voted 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad, Bank "Intez" a.d. Belgrade, NBG Bank Malta LTD, AIK Bank a.d. Nis and "Unicredit" Banka Serbia, a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Excise Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Securities Commission. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 126, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds has proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the selection of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 126, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The SDPS parliamentary group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly has proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly Service. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 127, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. We're going over to the agenda. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32239	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just saw on the networks information that a military plane crashed and I'm expressing my deep condolences to the family of the dead and I think it's extremely bad news for today. I propose amendments and additions to the Defense Act. These are extremely important changes and additions to the Defense Act. I thank the distinguished experts in this area who helped me propose these amendments and supplement the Defense Act. This has nothing to do with any political party, this is good for the entire security system, especially the defense system. This is an extremely important law, such as the defence system is an extremely important system for the functioning of our entire state. Right now, I don't expect you to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the Defense Act, because we know how you treat the system of security in general. When Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin, when BIA Director Bratislava Gasic, this says that you do not approach with enough seriousness this extremely important topic that we all depend on in Serbia. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(1) and points 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is just scheduled for Serbia to regulate and ensure the defence and security of all its citizens. The Defence Act is insufficient and does not provide answers to essential issues. One of the reasons is also the obsolescence of basic strategic documents and I think it is necessary to work again on basic strategic documents. Therefore, I ask you to consider with sufficient seriousness the amendments and additions to the Defence Act that has been proposed. First of all, it is necessary to establish compliance with other laws, such as the Emergency Act. It is not normal and it is not natural for the Defence Act to be incompatible with the Emergency Law in this year 2018. We have submitted an amendment and an addition of eight members, and that is primarily good for the overall security system. I say once again, this has nothing to do with any political party, this is purely professional law. I thank the people who are experts in the defense system who helped me make these amendments and supplement the laws. I hope you'll suggest they come to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32240	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32241	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Democratic Party is proposing amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government precisely because the lives of all citizens are equally important to us, whether they live in Surdulica, Belgrade or Subotica. Therefore, the Democratic Party has proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government with several concrete topics. The first topic is that five billion dinars are returned to all local self-governments as much as the ruling majority, headed by the SNS last year, because local self-governments are in an extremely difficult situation, not enough of their financial resources, and the government has still taken away five billion dinars. Therefore, I propose amendments to the law to return five billion dinars to local self-government. I know what SNS is up to. The intention of the SNS is to blackmail all local leaders or presidents of municipalities and mayors depending on the SNS' position. That's what we saw in the situation when the mayor of Subotica slapped his employees in his cabinet, of course, he didn't carry any coincidences and we saw last week when the mayor of the Kings beat up a citizen on the street. I was in the King last night, of course, that the citizens of the Kings are appalled by this behavior and that no one from SNS has responded to it, and I don't want to talk about this genius from Bruce who abused his employees in local self-government, of course, I'm talking about ladies. We see what is happening and I find it really fascinating that no one reacts to what is happening in Serbia today by local princes and SNS. Of course, it is not your responsibility to accept this law and that the mayors and presidents of the municipalities be independent. The European Charter of Serbia ratified in 2007 says all local self-government should have guaranteed administrative, financial and political independence. No local self-government has been guaranteed neither political nor financial independence, and that corresponds only to the ruling majority. This is a bad general for the functioning of the entire state, when we know that in the European Union half of the budget and income goes to local self-government, and half of the governments of those countries, while in Serbia 90% of the revenues go to the government of the Republic of Serbia and only 10% to local self-government. Since 2012, SNS has taken more than 50 billion dinars from citizens and citizens and all local self-government, which is, of course, extremely bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32242	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32243	Thank you. Dear President, according to the Rules of Procedure, I want you to establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32244	That's what only the head of the parliamentary group can ask for. Please, if you'd like a word. If not, no one.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32245	I want to, I answered. Thank you. The Democratic Party proposes several similar laws on information and, of course, these laws are insufficiently quality, the SNS and what are little quality in those laws that have been completely trampled. We can see that the Serbian Progressive Party, or its tycoons, are the owners of all televisions with national frequency. Not only are we talking about the ruling majority, we are talking about the principle, the Democratic Party is an important principle and therefore the DS is against the fact that the ruling majority of 24 hours is speaking without the right of someone from the opposition to respond to Pink TV, as I am against the fact that certain parties from the opposition are the only ones who perform on our television 24 hours. This DS needs to show and show the principle, that it's an important principle for us, that if someone did something that's not good enough for us to criticise it whether it's someone from the opposition or from the government. So I ask you to pass this law. I know you won't do it because you're afraid, because it suits you to harass journalists, harass media owners, that you don't have the opposite opinion, that there's no right to the opposite of opinion, freedom of the media, freedom of speech and freedom of freedom of diversity. You only have a SNS directive, and we could see it on different media channels and in different election campaigns, primarily the presidential campaign, where SNS had 94% of the total time it was set for political parties. Another reason why you do not adopt this law is because during 2013, 23 attacks on journalists were recorded, which is a disaster. Of course, you always go faster, better, stronger, but on the back of the people it also proves that in 2017, with 23 attacks, the number of attacks on journalists jumped to 54 attacks. I don't know if it's any big deal, but you'll come to the opposition, whether you're the government or the opposition, this isn't good. This is not good for the functioning of the state either, this is not good for the people who live in this country, this is not good for you both, but you don't get it right now. Please adopt these proposed amendments and additions to the law to work together to improve.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32246	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Capital. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the top authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the person responsible for the destruction of those facilities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on additions to the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) No Rules of Procedure now. We're closing the vote. It's just a moment in time of voting, we're not meeting the desires of music here, we're voting. For three, there is no one who is restrained. Just take it easy, I'm guessing this proposal hasn't been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote, for – two, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. (Marco Djurisic: I am looking for a quorum in the Rules of Procedure. Please, take it easy. There's enough, so 138 is present, I have the right to vote. Please don't yell at me while I run the session, because that's clear. (Marco Djurisic: I have the right to ask for a vote. ) While I am in charge of the session, do not shout from the site you did not get the word, the Rules of Procedure is very clear, do not shout. (Marco Djurisic: Don't yell at me, I'm looking for a quorum. Without yelling, I can't hear anyone yelling at me, I can't really hear. 139 MPs in the O.R. are present. (Marko Djurisic: I demand that the quorum be determined by Article 88, because I express my doubts about the existence of the quorum. ) I ask the MPs to allow normal work and not to interfere with the course of voting to read, and now I give you a warning. Marko Djurisic, I would like to remind you of the disturbance in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Marco Djurisic: I ask you to establish a quorum per article 88. Rules of Procedure. I'm expressing my suspicion that there is a quorum and I'm asking you to establish a quorum. ) Okay, let me just finish the course of the vote and read how many people have not voted in favour of this proposal. (Marko Djurisic: I demand the right to establish the quorum by the Rules of Procedure, because I express my doubts about the existence of the quorum. I give you another warning, for I find it difficult to hold a session in such conditions. I conclude the vote, for – one, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that 138 MPs have not voted, which means that the quorum is 139 MPs and that I have completed this round of voting. (Marko Djurisic: I seek the right to the Rules of Procedure, under Article 88 to establish the quorum. I give you a third warning, because I really can't do it like this. (Marko Djurisic: Please read Article 88. Rules of Procedure. Because you're screaming at the chairman and you're not letting... Well, it's not my fault Balša Bozovic doesn't come to the sessions. (Marco Djurisic: Shame on you, I am not screaming, I express my suspicion of the existence of the quorum. Read Article 88. Rules of Procedure. You have to give me your word. Thank you, you can speak when I give you my word. Please, you've received three warnings. You've received Marco Djuric's three warnings. (Marko Djurisic: Please read Article 88. Rules of Procedure. Read Article 88. Rules of Procedure. Have you finished yelling at the chairman? I thank you, I think you can make it possible for us to work civilised without shouting, shouting and shouting during the voting process. When you are in parliaments around the world, in international terms, I know that you are very quiet and calm and that you respect the rules and I call on you to respect your national parliament as well, not to behave differently in Brussels and Strasbourg, and when we are in Belgrade, we are making a mess. (Marco Djurisic: Please establish the quorum, that is how you behave, humbly, shame on you. I'm famous for that. Thank you for that, shame on you, and now I'm telling you a measure of distance from the session because I don't allow anyone to insult the President of Parliament, whatever his name is. Have a good trip. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the law on contributions to compulsory social security. I'm putting the motion to a vote. And, let me tell you, I will not allow this House to, or any chairman to be the mator here for individual MPs. All right, you don't want to vote, so no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No. 3 Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreements in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32248	Mr. Djurishic, I'd like you to allow us to continue our work and accept the punishment you've been told. (Radoslav Milojic: It is not nice that you punished him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32249	Infrastructure is very important and I will show it on the Smederjevska Palanka case. So here are the criminal charges related to the infrastructure that my fellow predecessors spoke of. They were talking about how municipalities don't have enough money. The Smederjevska Palanka municipality spent over three billion more during the former regime's rule than is allowed. She spent four of her budgets than she had the right to. Here are the criminal charges for which the President of Smederevska Palanka Municipality, Mr. Kena in the people known as Heineken, is charged with 459 million 110 thousand dinars. If we take that he spent three billion more, when you divide it into municipalities in Serbia, each municipality could get 20 million extras that we don't have to regulate Smederjevska Palanka's debts. Smederjevska Palanka has issued a 50-year swimming pool, along with hot water, for 2,000 euros annually during the power of this genius. We in India for the same pool, when we issue only a place for selling ice cream, we take 5,000. So, the entire pool in Smederevska Palanca, all the hot water in Smederjevska Palanca around the pool, the use of hot water, was worth two and a half times less than the value of an ice cream sale in India. Cases of low construction where 100, 116,590 were pumped, Commissioner for Refugees, which was damaged by 13,813,000 for 365 days, shows that they were neither refugees...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32250	Just keep it down. Let's hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32251	The Smederevska Palanka House case 16 million, case of the Jasenica Municipal Club 53,449.000, case of the Vodice PK 21.717,000.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32252	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Serbia's Army. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding suspected SNS transactions and the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections and the 2017 presidential elections. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles from the “Skoda” Ministry of the Interior. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities regarding the over-restruction of the Slavi market and the construction of the music fountain. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact of how Serbian Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin acquired an 107m2 apartment in Belgrade worth 244.620 euros. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in relation to the investment investment investment project in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of Belgrade's top authorities regarding the signing of a contract on the construction of a burning plant in Vinca. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts relating to the trafficking of human organs in the territory of KIM, etc. ‘Yellow House’. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMC Kruševa factory "14. October’. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material and immaterial flood damage in Serbia's territory in 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the privatisation of the PKK. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of US and SR German embassies attacked on 21 February 2008 during the Kosovo is Serbia protest, as well as responsibility, both former and current holders of the highest state functions. I'm putting this motion to the vote. What the hell is a dead end? That's what he told me who usually got the distance. (Marco Djurisic: I'm not here, as I can tell you anything, you've lied to everything, you're just lying. So the receiver always finds a way to be there. So, what the hell is a dead end, that's what I got as president, which just confirms, please don't be primitive like this in this place, and private as you will be, whatever you will be. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. And that's a dead end, so leave it for your home conditions. I thank you for this wonderful compliment. Clearly, citizens recognize primitiveism at every turn. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of the China company Majta in Baric. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors in order to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the Treaty for the "Belgrade on Water" Project. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and the company "Al Rawafed International Investment". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions in favour of - four against - none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for the untrue demonstration of the state of the aflatoxin level in milk and corn, which caused major material and immaterial damage to the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the Treaty between the Serbian Government and Etihad Airways on the establishment of an air traffic undertaking "Air Serbia". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within Jelizara Smederevo in 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros annually. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances by the state of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the way the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad, which on 30 November 2012, the company Teleko Serbia took over the remaining debt to mention an apartment of 77,700 euros. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, I would like to say that by changing the Law on Agricultural Land, which we did at the end of 2015 and last year, in August of this month, we did the honors. Here, an agricultural land expert is reporting right now. However, it is more for vineyard land, but I want to say that we have put tens of thousands of hectares worth more than five million euros into the system. So, only by changing the law did the Assembly contribute to the country's fivem euros each year for the lease of agricultural land and to insert 73,000 hectares into the system. We've made local self-government bring programs, bid on time, and we want to keep promoting this law. I have a lot of complaints from members of the party of the former regime and I wonder about the 73,000 acres they shared with those five million euros, how much was the lease nobody paid. The current average rent is about 220 euros, second class around 200 euros, and when you multiply it by what was usurped, you will get almost 14 million and then the question is even more justified – to whom and why have they allowed the land to be usurped? My proposal is to seduce the discipline and on a more frequent lease, which we have allowed the cattlemen, that they have the right to rent land at the privileged price, for the simple reason that we think that this country no longer needs to export only millions of tons of cereals, to export cattle that weighs about four million tons. With that cattle food, we can drown cattle worth about two billion pounds, or a billion pounds. That if we process it in slaughterhouses, not exactly in the final ones, we can make four billion dollars in revenue. Currently, for all grains and cattle we export, we get between 700m and 800m euros. I'm saying that our cattlemen lose about a billion and 200, that our processors lose about two billion, and so I believe that by improving the current law, which has shown its justification, we can make even more revenue, or we can stimulate cattle farmers that will also restore the quality of the land by livestock production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32254	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – four, against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32255	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, as an MP, I ask that the quorum be determined, since you did not allow your fellow Djurisic as head of the Parliament club. Please determine the quorum, because it is not appropriate for you to humiliate institutions here, to work without a quorum. As you have removed fellow Djurisic from the quorum-free session at the non-existent session, so you can go outside the Assembly, hold a session with five of them and make some decisions. It's not legitimate, it's not legal, and it shouldn't be done in this high house. Can I get an answer whether or not you'll determine the quorum?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32256	When you look and learn Article 88(5), we can continue to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32257	Yeah, only the head of the Parliament Club can look for quorum. He was looking for Mr. Djurisic and he didn't win.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32258	You've got two more minutes. First, the quorum is not determined by writing in the Rules of Procedure – the determination of quorum from the present number of MPs of certain parliamentary groups. We have 148 present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32259	All right, please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32260	I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Social Protection Act with a bit of a weird explanation. (Radoslav Milojic: I have a minute left. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: You stole my time. I'm closing the vote. (Radoslav Milojic: Please give me back my time.) ) Without being thrown or insulted if you do not have stronger political arguments. I ask Mrs. Jerkov to calm down. (Radoslav Milojic: Do you hear what Mr. Martinovic told me?) For two, none of the abstentioned ones voted 144 messengers. I find that your proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32261	This is the right law, and I hope you all end up in front of the police for what you're doing, for harassing all people who think differently from you, who speak differently. For harassing these institutions, especially the National Assembly, for harassing Serbian citizens, for harassing MPs. What does this session look like, Madam Chairman? Did you hear what Mr. Martinovic was yelling at me earlier? That's what you deafen yourself to. If you have one archaic towards power, you also have an opposition. I will not explain these amendments to the law because of solidarity with Mr. Djurisic, because in the most brutal way you violated the Rules of Procedure, you violated the rules in this high house. It's not your SNS that you can do whatever you want here and expect us to shut up and nod our heads about what you say. What happens in Nis is just the beginning of what happens to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32262	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure say you have to explain the bill or say you don't want to. I think of everything else as a political folklore today. So when everyone apologizes to me for the words... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32263	I have more time. Don't take away my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32264	"What do you want a lock, man? “ Then we’ll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32265	I've got another minute. Don't take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32266	I'm putting this proposal to a vote, since... . (Radoslav Milojic: You can't put, I have more time. ) I give you a warning, honourable MP, to interfere with the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Radoslav Milojic: Why? I put this proposal to the vote. (Radoslav Milojic: I have another minute. ) I ask the services, if they can also follow MPs who want to vote, to approach the vote. If not, then I'll conclude the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. I'm telling you in advance that you have a duty to explain the law, not to swear and say whatever it is you think of. (Radoslav Milojic: Who was cursing? There is no such thing in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32267	I'm asking the President of the National Assembly not to twist what I didn't say here. So I'm asking you to tell the truth for once in your life, I know it's hard for you SNS to tell the truth for once in your life, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32268	I ask the MP to really explain the bill, not to argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32269	Don't take my time. I'm talking about extremely important amendments to the Military Act, and I'm asking you not to take my time, not because of me, but because of 35,000 members of the Serbian Army, whose SNS has cut salaries, which the SNS has cut down on their diaries. What SNS and you and her have managed to do so far has not been able to do. The military was once the most trusted institution in it. Now the Army is an institution to escape from. The army is an institution that unfortunately runs away from. We have terrible events in the military all the time. You have a situation where 70% of civilians in the military make 22,000 dinars. What can people who do for 22,000, who are on the verge of receiving these benefits, do with their incomes? You've changed five defence ministers over the last six years of your blatant and corrupt SNS government. In those six years, every minister proposed by the SNS is worse than his predecessor. I used to say that when he was Mr. Djordjevic, thinking you couldn't do worse than Mr. Djordjevic. You suggested that Mr. Vulin be the defence minister, that we be laughed at by the whole of Europe and the whole world and all the citizens of Serbia. The man who deserted the army now commands officers, officers and soldiers. It can only be done in the SNS and the system where the SNS decide to operate the nakarad. Eighty per cent of the members of the Republika Srpska Army earn less than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what else you need to be told? You promised the new helicopters on July 31st 2016. Now, it's been almost two years since you made that promise. What about the MiGs that Alexander Vulin, borrowed from his aunt from Canada, has been putting together for a year, who arrived in Serbia, and what's going on with them? You would have ruined the marble, dear gentlemen of the SNS. I speak here on behalf of 35,000 members of the Serbian Army, who are extremely difficult to live on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32270	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Vladimir Orlic: You do not have 35,000 votes.) Radoslav Milojic: You Orlic have no idea, and you live. ( b) “You, Orlic, have no sense. ” That's what the messenger says to the other MP. Radoslav Milojic: So you live. To live? And you live. Here, I am complemented by an MP for the beauty of a sentence. (Radoslav Milojic: Only the truth. ) I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—six, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board, to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the VBA, which, without a decision, was spied by political parties, union leaders and individual judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32271	Thank you and please don't take my time since you've been talking to me for three minutes. This isn't a coffee chat, please don't take my time, you've done this twice to me. I know you're in pain with all the truth we're telling here. I've submitted these changes, i.e. The education of the polling committee because it is clear to everyone that the SNS is following, harassing, arresting and oppressing all those people who think differently and speak differently. As it ends, I don't get it. It is not clear to the citizens of Serbia who are getting harder and harder to live, but it is clear to me that you have also received and deleted this behaviour and we see what you have done before, completely past the Rules of Procedure, with complete disregard for the rules and rules and rules and the Rules of Procedure and have tried to get away from the session, the non-existent sittings, a fellow member of Mark Djurisic. You didn't have a quorum. Twenty of you can't get together here and make any decisions you want. There are things that a healthy and normal mind will not go over, and every day you humiliate the health of Serbian citizens with false promises, pay cuts, pension cuts, withdrawal of money from citizens and citizens of Serbia and filling their pockets with SNS tycoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32272	Okay. Be kind now explain the point to see if anyone will support you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32273	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32274	Don't talk, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32275	That you're harassing, spying and following all the people who think differently and speak differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32276	Yeah?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32277	You from SNS, yes. Not in a year when you lose power to say – was I in SNS? Like you said you weren't in G17+ or the SRS, but that's your manners. Let's just tell you something. This time we won't forget what you did to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32278	Okay. Be nice, just about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32279	I'm asking you to be kind enough not to take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32280	I accept everything, insults to my account, it's not a problem, it's just...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32281	Why are you taking my time? It's an insult to you that you were in the SRS, in the G17+ and in the SNS, it's not up to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32282	By not saying whatever you want to say in the Rules of Procedure, but by explaining...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32283	It's a reflection of you being in those parties, I don't know what you're ashamed of, I'm telling the truth here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32284	I'm not ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32285	Please don't take my time all the time. If you want an incident at this session, say, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32286	I won't. You want the incident, that's how you started from the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32287	You won't let me talk about amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32288	Just about the agenda point, because you're teaching the agenda point with one explanation, getting up and talking about me. I really have nothing to do with this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32289	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure here, the chairman. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You violated the Rules of Procedure by giving three warnings to Mr Đurišić, at a non-existent session, a sitting without a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32290	The session is open. Ambassador, you don't know the Rules of Procedure, I'm very sorry, and if you'd like to have a consult with me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32291	Really? You're very kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32292	Don't, that's not how you talk. Otherwise, I don't drink coffee but tea or white coffee, so we don't cheat on the citizens, since you invited me for coffee. So, I accept the invitation, but I don't drink coffee. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy in the rail vehicle factory "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32293	You even stole the Gossu. Thirty people, 350 families are out of work. I have warned here several times about what will happen, but to you from the SNS, of course, nothing is sacred except your interest and the interests of your tycoons. I'm not going to say the name of any tycoon, because I see that every tycoon you say from SNS, one whose name can't be mentioned, which is the biggest drug dealer in Europe, as you said, was released yesterday. He was released yesterday. And that the citizens of Serbia know, just as the citizens of Serbia and all of us will pay compensation to all those people you arrested for raising your ratings, as you do all by looking at the ratings, without looking at the pockets of Serbian citizens, without looking at the refrigerator of Serbian citizens and at the reservoir of Serbian citizens, who are getting poorer and more empty every day, while your pockets are getting fuller and fuller, as they will be fuller, our prisons fuller when you leave the government, not because we are doing it, but the system, the Constitution and the law of this country, which you are treading from day to day. For what you've done to Mr. Djurishic, it's an honor. We'll never agree to that. You can't show violence in every place, all the time. I didn't, that's what I said last time, such a Christian, that when someone slaps me, I turn my other cheek. No, I don't. We will defend the right and the Constitution of this country, Rules of Procedure. Don't think you can do whatever you want. You've been harassing every citizen for six years, political opponents. Don't tell the truth, you usurped all the media and you're here telling us about some kind of democracy. There's no such thing as democracy. Organize fair elections, with fair treatment on TV, with fair financial resources, not with millions and millions to buy votes. In Mionica, 300 families received 20,000 dinars. In Smederjevska Palanca, 400 families received 15,000 dinars. You threatened doctors that they wouldn't be able to get a special if they were on the DS list. What do you think and how long do you think? (Vladimir Orlic: Do yours vote for you? ) Please warn Mr. Orlic and Martinovic. And now tell us what they told us from the opposition. Just so you know, in one European country, since you're rising by percentages, one leader had 100% support, but... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32294	Thank you very much. If anyone remembers what their colleague suggested, I'll put it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol amending Article 50a of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Protocol amending Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32295	You're the one who's pounding. Get Balsha to help you, too. He helped embalm you. So you've just had a chance to see what the rest of the DS is doing, and dear viewers, you've just had a chance to hear why that party crashed to 2%. Instead of finding people who don't have butter in their head, they bring in some that I don't know what they have in their head. Ladies and gentlemen, we just heard the man who drank the tank. Yeah. We were just listening to the man who drank the tank. Namely, Dragan Sutanovac, who left one MiG, means Dragan Sutanovac left us a MiG, so that God didn't break down, we wouldn't have a civilian air force. That's what Mr. Lazanski knows, in order to have flight control, we'd have to have a military air force that can guarantee civil aviation a certain level of security. Without that, there's no flight control, no good income, etc. But we were listening to the man who drank the tank. For one evening at the “Atrium” cafe, he drank 343 beers. I don't know if he's had a drink or had a beer, I don't know. As a result, it bears the nickname ‘heineken’, which was worth a total of 471,000 dinars. That's a little over five thousand dollars. For five thousand dollars, and Mr. Lazanski knows it, Mr. Sutanovac, their president still sold tanks to Iraq. If we hadn't changed power in 2012, I don't think we'd have an army, that we'd only be left with a minister of military, or Mr. Sutanovac, who from a mileage of the people called "the kidnapper". In their time, they declared Serbia a military neutral, and as they treated aviation, I think our military and aviation were not neutral, but militaryly neutral. Today we were listening to the man who bought the Army for 36 million, invested six million for destruction, 42 million for sale to Miskovic, so he doesn't mention tycoons, sold it to Miskovic for 16 million cheaper. So, 16 million, that's 160,000 of those baby breakfasts, lunches that he calls us for.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32296	Thanks, it's been a while. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the reasons for the huge losses suffered by the JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" Belgrade, as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" Belgrade. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by "Er Serbia", a commitment that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Etihad have towards "Er Serbia", a total business loss "Er Serbia" in the period from 2013 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to "Er Serbia" in the same period and the damage to the contract signed by the Government of Serbia with "Etihad" and the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal to resolve Veroljub Arsic from the post of vice-president of the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Judges. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Saša Radulović suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that indicate the link between Aleksandr Vukic and Andrej Vukic with the rightful convicted drug dealer Aleksandr Stanković, called Sale Mutavi, and the forced takeover of the luxury restaurant "Franš" in Belgrade, management rights over IT companies "Alti/Vin-Vin", "Prointer" and "Energosoft". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. No proposal accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on international and road transport of passengers and freight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32297	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think this law is very important. It is a law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and my attempt to put it on the agenda, given that passenger transport is very important. During the rule of those who went out, the transport of passengers, especially the working class, was not important at all. They didn't care about the development of the economy. The development of the region's economy and trade did not matter. The philosophy that ruled during the former regime was better introduced than produced. With that in mind, they needed communications and infrastructure that they weren't capable of building. I believe that roads and infrastructure and trade are the most important thing for our economy, but in doing so, we have to make a product that we can trade with, buy another product. Money is a means to exchange goods, services and knowledge. Unless we have the production of our goods, if we do not provide our services, then we do not have any money to buy some goods, whose imports were allowed uninterrupted, especially the 2007 and 2008 SAA. To buy someone's goods, we have to sell ours and for that money to buy goods. If we buy for debt, we buy for someone else's money, then it has its limits. These limits are shown from 2008 to 2012, these limits inevitably lead to the loss of labour. We lost 400,000 jobs, of which 300,000 were from production, 100,000 were from services. The workers wanted a job, but there was no work. Instead of illustrating the culprits in their ranks, they changled the factory workers, tried to lastrate farmers from the fields as well. Because of the change in 2012, this did not go completely hand in hand, but let's not forget that out of 400,000 people 300,000 worked in production, 100,000 in services, and that the public sector brought 78,000 people. Such a system could no longer function. Fortunately, the citizens of Serbia, there has been a change, financial discipline, foreign and domestic investment has been seduced, we have begun to produce goods for which we can buy other goods. The philosophy that was at the time of their rule, when the bankruptcy directors and former regime's party ruled together, in a joint criminal enterprise, was better introduced than produced, came to an end. So, we want our workers and our goods to travel to jobs and infrastructure not only internal markets, but we want the coverage of exports from 50% to 80% to 100%, and that we can fully preserve foreign reserves, develop the country, find jobs for both workers and peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32298	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the reasons for the huge losses achieved by Željzar Smederevo from 2014 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to Jelizari Smederevo in the same period and the damage to all contracts concluded by the Serbian government in connection with the operation of Jelizara during that period. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote, and this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine whether the opposition civil movements, minority parties and opposition parties, were stolen and registered as votes to the electoral lists Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, Ivica Dačić – the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Unity Serbia – Dragan Markovic Palma and Dr Vojislav Seselj – the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to look into the overall election material of the 2017 presidential elections and determine whether the election material contains anomalies and what it consists of. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances of the bankruptcy that is being carried out over the Mining-Topier Baseline Bor, the reasons for the huge losses incurred by RTB Bor, the total amount of State aid granted to RTB Bor and the harmfulness of the plan for the reorganisation of RTB Bor. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the Public Enterprise "Serbia" began from the establishment of the company in 2005 until today. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts relating to the irregularities in the voting and circumstances that led to this and marked the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic of 2017 in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the origin of the money that Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin bought an apartment in Belgrade. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on secondary education and education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Saša Radulović suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from public funds users. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on trade and economic co-operation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32299	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, international agreements, especially because of economy, trade, tourism, are very important. Our country deserved a chance, our people deserved an opportunity to develop, to be better. In order to make him feel better, we need to have as many friends, as possible allies, as many partners as possible. We must cultivate good relations with everyone. We can't have all our friends, but at least we can try not to have opponents, reduce the number of opponents, and have better relations, especially with countries that are on some level of development like us, where we can sell enough of our goods and buy their goods. Without trade, without good relations, you cannot develop the economy of a country, you cannot develop the food industry. In order to sell goods to someone, you have to have proper agreements, you have to have duty-free arrangements, you have to have diplomacy and you have to have the leadership of a state that can make a business environment in the country, but also make an ambience abroad, that our goods can reach the buyer. Just after the change in 2012, 2014, in 2016, when we got rid of one evil that didn't matter if something was being produced, all they cared about was that their pockets and bellies were full, they absolutely didn't care whether the stomachs and pockets of hungry workers were full, whether they were busy, whether they were going to become social cases, whether they would be thrown out of the business chain, they absolutely didn't care. The international agreements they made were only for their own benefit, that as soon as possible and more than public functions make private businesses. This country and its new leadership have turned it in a completely different direction. So every new agreement, especially trade, every new country that cooperates with us, every increase in exports gives us a chance to produce this product in our country, especially in agriculture, food and energy. We are a country that can extract enough energy from agriculture to create agricultural production and enough electricity from agriculture to transform this agricultural production into a finished product and thus, with more money, to get more goods on the international market, and to get our people a chance to regain the dignity they lost during the former government, to get a job from which they can live fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32300	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, is in favour of—four against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be completed with the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad in connection with the privatisation of "ATP Vojvodina" and the construction of the Inter-Mescan Bus Station in Novi Sad. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law on the termination of the law on higher education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, and I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Maja Vidinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Budgetary System Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of the Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin Cevdet Ayaz to Turkey, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel regarding military, defence and defence-industry co-operation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying – when the strength of the whispers, the mouth cannot thunder. We found an army almost in total ruin. It seems we only had a minister of military, and from technique, I'm talking about this mess, we almost had nothing. We've only got 300 left of 1,000 armors. The equipment was out of date, you sold everything that could be sold. Serbia was no longer military neutral, Serbia was militaryly neutralised. Co-operation with Israel on training, in terms of equipment, is very valuable for our country. We should have enough plows and plows and swords, which the plow earns, the sword must defend. Someone said it was crazy, crazy to say, but it's true that only ready for war can we keep peace. It's not Tito's saying, I think it's the saying of one of the American presidents. I believe it was Kennedy, a colleague of Lazanski's knows it best. That's why we have to invest in military and equipment, not to be a threat to others, but to defend ourselves against such a threat, so to prevent all possible opponents from harming this country and this small, brave, great nation. We do not, in doing so, cultivate any aggressive ambitions or combinations. We want to preserve peace, but we want to preserve both the integrity and sovereignty of this country. We've been brave enough, but often crazy brave. It's time we were just brave. We've fought a lot for others, it's time to live a little for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32302	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the daily sessions be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought colleagues who hit their feet would be present, because sailing mostly touches them. They're used to yachts, they're used to Maldives, they're used to eating lobsters in the Maldives, and those they've made unhappy don't even have a good life. I find it hard to find a worker who now has a boat in the Danube, I can hardly find a worker who rests in Fruszko Gora, difficult, but that's why thousands of members of the party of the former regime can be found on the white-world seas where under the umbrellas enjoy their paradise. That paradise is based on the hell of those poor people that they destitute in this beautiful and troubled state of ours. So, they're the ones who understand themselves best in sailing and sailing. I thought, since they'd be here, I'd bring them their navigational problem. It may be good for the people to sail, but they should not have gone unpunished, for all their pleasures are based on the suffering of the poor. We could easily feed after the poor change, but we couldn't feed them, their friends, their tycoons, who are always hungry and never enough. Poor people who have not yet come out of poverty should not be ashamed of their poverty, these rich people should be ashamed of their wealth and yachts they have earned here, on social capital, mostly on fraud, and those yachts they bought have not registered to this country in order not to pay taxes, they have registered them to various Maldives and Virgin Islands. Some of them, for example, as Ceda Jovanovic, and recommends, since this is how they climb Karapora in the Himalayas, to be the leader of the mountain rescue service here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32304	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six, against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 133 Members of the people. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Vesna Marjanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the liquidation procedure "such insurance". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Dejan Nikolic proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32305	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is the third, fourth time that a reasoned draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid, because I think it makes sense to explain it, since in the meantime some things are happening that, at least as they say, go in favour of this proposal. It has already been over three years, so three and a half years since the law was passed, on 28 October 2014, and it tells about how much it has been with the adoption of the law to the pensioner, which belongs to the category of those who had more pensions than the ones to which the law was applied, the story that was probably told has been taken away. Depending on the level of pensions, those who have had more pensions have been taken over hundreds of thousands of dinars, and in the meantime, over 5,000 dinars have been allocated to help. Given that from the moment the new law was passed, it was said that the law was temporary. So, another illogicality as long as it is temporary, whether it lasts a year, two, three, five, ten, we have no answer, by way of Article 20, for example, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or their level, guaranteed, and by reducing pensions, as acquired rights, is reducing that level of human rights, all of this stands as a reason for this proposal to be accepted. Not to say that in this proposal we have clear indicators that speak of discrimination, because with this law, not all of them, to say, are damaged, someone has been taken more, someone has been taken away, someone has gained through his working age the right to a higher pension, so by assessing and deciding someone is determined to make it more taken, an apparent form of discrimination. However, the key reason it gives for the right of the legislator of such a law to expect that the government will also support this is the words of the president of the state and of all relevant factors of this country that the budget is never more full. So if they weren't once and there were conditions now they're acquired and I think this law can be on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32306	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, it did not vote 134 out of 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the call of presidential elections until the day of publication of the provisional election results at 99.9% of the polling stations, which were submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 20 April 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four of them, among the 137 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the Republic elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for three, none of them, of the 136 MPs of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration of the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 September 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has, of the total, 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marija Janjušević and Bosko Obradović on 23 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has, of course, 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 17 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has, of course, 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has, of the total, 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO is in a very close relationship with that of the earlier proposed law. In the explanation we gave, we state the reasons for passing such a law. In fact, it is that amendments to the Law on PIO have led to changes in the composition of the Management Board of this Fund, which then had twenty-one members and reduced the number of members to seven members. Therefore, of these seven members, the four members are members who are appointed on the proposal of the Minister in charge of PIO affairs. One member is from the insurance company on a proposal from the representative union, one member is from the employers' order on a proposal from the representative employers' association and one member is from the line of users of the right to propose a pensioner's association established at the level of the Republic of Serbia. So, with such a board of directors and this kind of relationship with the members of the Management Board, it is evident that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has maintained all the mechanisms of government and that in an indirect and direct manner it can manage such a Management Board in the way it suits it. We believe that this is wrong and in the proposal to amend that Article 2 we have proposed that a board of directors be formed which will have 15 members, with five members from the pensioners, five members from the insurance company, two from the employers and the Government, and one from the Fund. We believe that this way of forming the Management Board is much more logical and that it would enable or restore rights to those who are users and who have acquired those pensions, and that it would do much better in this way. If such a Governing Board were to be formed, it would certainly be that the recent bill I proposed on amending the Law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions were paid would change. Unfortunately, you have no ear for preserving the acquired rights of the oldest members of our population, and certainly none of us sitting in this room are going to honor or face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32308	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32309	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, one declaration on the protection of Serbian language, which I do not understand is that someone in this room cannot support such a declaration. It's not a controversial story that in Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the language in the Republic of Serbia is Serbian and the letter is Cyrillic. It is not disputed that all official documents that come into the work of this home, as the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia, come in a Cyrillic letter and in a Serbian language. But many other things that happen around us that shouldn't happen are controversial. The other day we had a situation where the rights protector in our neighbouring Republic of Croatia said that the most endangered rights of the Serbian people and, among other things, as one of the places where these rights flagrantly collapse states the inability to use Cyrillic and Serbian. So I really ask colleagues who have an absolute majority and have the opportunity to vote this declaration – what is controversial about this declaration? Why does the Constitution say one thing and mention another in life? I'm asking you, colleagues, why, for example, driver's license or license on the Latina in the Republic of Serbia? Is there anyone besides you sitting in this House, or is there, like, a Cyrillic passport besides me? Do you know that for two years I've fought a battle with the I.P. in the city of King to exercise my constitutional right to have my official document, passport, be on a Cyrillic letter? Do you know that after two years, I've achieved this right to have only my name and last name written on Cyrillic through the name and last name on the Latin? Do you know that at the same time Serbs in Montenegro can have Cyrillic passports? Do you know there's a Cyrillic passport in Macedonia, too? Do you know that in Arab countries there are official documents in Arabic, which is completely justified? Will we and when are we going to protect the Serbian language and the letter or are we going to do something that is clearly related to the identity of the Serb people for some reason that is not clear to me all the time to step on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32310	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32311	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I really thank my colleagues from the ruling majority, and there are three of them who supported that declaration. I really thank them, and I hope that number will grow over time. And I suggest you propose a declaration, believe me, I'll vote for it. A similar thing is this declaration here, which we are now talking about, about the protection of the Cyrillic and the preservation of the literary and cultural treasures of the Serbian language created on the Latin. I didn't make it to the last session when Mr. Educational Minister was to talk to him about why many of the works written by the famous Serbs of the Catholic faith and who wrote on the letter, as they called him, the lingua of the Serbians, and that was a Latin letter, and we experienced the fact that both the Greeks and Gundulić and all those famous Serbs who used the Latin letter were not Orthodox religions. In 1908, we had a situation that in Dubrovnik, 98% were declared Serbian Catholics. Today we have neither the Serbs of Orthodox nor the Serbs of Catholics. The problem is that all cultural heritage written on the Latin, written by Serbs who were not Orthodox religions today do not belong to Serbian cultural heritage. This declaration aims and the idea of allowing such and cultural heritage to be translated, copied in a Cyrillic letter and preserved for generations that come behind us as a Serbian cultural heritage. It's not right for us to give up something that's ours. We do it for some reason. I will remind you that hundreds of thousands of people in Croatia have risen to break one Cyrillic board, and what our people of other faith wrote in another letter we give to those who do not think well. That's why this declaration came, which is why I believe that this declaration really is one such serious home, regardless of some of our political differences in opinion, should be supported. I repeat, if it bothers her coming from this side, I'm human as a Serbian Orthodox religion please make it similar, suggest it. Believe me, we will always support such a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32312	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the certification of the Protocol on Sustainable Transport with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apart from Cyrillic, we need to protect the environment. I voted for the Cyrillic, but the next time I'm sued by members of your coalition, don't sue me on the Latin, then the judge won't handle that lawsuit, even though I have the right to a Cyrillic by the Constitution. When you sue me, you sue me at Cyrillic. When you ask the government for money, however, this was during the party of the former regime, protect the Cyrillic and then. Here, Mr. Sevarlic, a request for 62,000 euros to pay for that project STAR, although the memorandum is on Cyrillic, wrote on the Latin. Here, look. Don't be hypocritical. I'm for absolute Cyrillic protection. Mr. Vesovicu, I believe you are an honorable man, first correct your environment, not like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32314	Please, about the Carpathians.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32315	As far as the environment is concerned, we need to take care of it before the birds start coughing, before we see the air, we need to take care of the environment. Taking care of the environment doesn't have to be a cost, it can be business. So, everywhere in Europe, environmental protection, the resolution of endangered areas is a very serious job, and often the cost-effective job of both this country and the Ministry of Environment is going that way. I believe we don't even have enough money, because the developing industry still can't reach a certain degree, but in its development we have to make sure that we don't endanger the environment team before drinking water and food production should be a business that will be a larger business and will soon bring the biggest profit. So this country and this people don't just belong to the present generation, this people don't just make up the present generation, we're passing through. Life is real, life is a cartoon between two numerical numbers, between the year of birth and the year of death. That's how long our lives last. We don't belong in this country. Guys, it's not the present generation. It's the past and the future. So our ancestors left us a much healthier environment and we are obliged to deliver the environment to future generations of this country in the same way that we got from our ancestors, if not better then at least the same country with the same healthy environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32316	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. Ambassador Zoran Radojicic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32317	Respected Serbian citizens, respected colleagues and colleagues, starting with the state-of-the-art tradition of the Serbian people and its historical rights to AP Kosovo and Metohija, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, given that Kosovo and Metohija are historically state-of-state, spiritually and culturally, so the headquarters of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, since after the illegal and illegal aggression of NATO to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, therefore as the legal predecessor of the Republic of Serbia and the occupation of part of its state territory, the highest state goal of the Republic of Serbia is the physical return of its state bodies to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Especially seeing the fact that without the physical return of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, it is not possible to implement a constitutional norm on a single legal order that applies to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia including the AP of Kosovo and Metohija and respecting the principled and unequivocal position of the SPC that the state authority of Serbia must never give its consent to the alienation of Kosovo and Metohija, because what is taken by force is returned, but what bowed to someone is always lost. We propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopt a resolution on the AP of Kosovo and Metohija in which they would say next, that the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international public law, the Constitution and the will of citizens, will therefore not recognise and will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence by illegal authorities in Pristina. That Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia currently under occupation, which should be notified to the international public without delay. That no citizen of the Republic of Serbia in public office has the right to sign a binding document that will legally alienate Kosovo and Metohija as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to suspend any kind of communication and negotiations in Brussels with representatives of Pristina's illegal authorities led by the EU's intermediation. The European Union whose leading states have committed aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, therefore, and whose armed forces are the backbones of the occupation troops in Kosovo and Metohija cannot possibly be a mediator in the negotiations on resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems. It undertakes the government of the Republic of Serbia to annul all written and oral agreements reached in Brussels, with representatives of Pristina's illegal authorities, with the intervention of the EU, as they are constitutionally-illegal and private political contracts of non-authorised persons. Then, the government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to order all political organisations and individuals involved in the work of illegal authorities in Pristina in the occupied territory of Kosovo and Metohija, who recognise, apply or adopt acts within the framework of an illegal Pristina system to step forward and deny their support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32318	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Radojicic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the item - the proposal for a declaration by honoring the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationality, who died for the country. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32319	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In view of the fact that, according to the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and all citizens who live in it, taking into account the fact that through our history, numerous members of the Serbian army, not Serbian nationalities, have, therefore, stood out for their courage and sacrifice in the war, and in particular remembering that in the Balkan wars, the First World War, the Second World War, as well as in the country's defence wars that were waged from 1991 to 1999, warring and sacrificing for Serbia many non-Serb nationalities, we suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia bring a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia unserbish to the nationality and killed for the country in which it would be said next. Under one, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expressed special respect and honour for all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives fighting wars on the part of the Serbian state. Two, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia calls on the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia to honor these heroes by raising monuments that would mark their contribution to the fight for freedom of our common country. Under three, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposes a complete list of all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives in the country wars so that their names would not be forgotten. Under four, the National Assembly proposes to set a special day for the protectors of country and state unity as a state holiday marking the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. We particularly want to draw the attention of the local and world public to the absence of any kind of xenophobia, intolerance, chauvinism and national impatience of the majority Serbian people towards non-Serb people through examples and honoring numerous non-Serb nationalities who, throughout history, have stood out for their courage and sacrifice in wars to free themselves from the occupiers. We believe that by adopting a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities who are killed for a country whose first step in dedication, therefore, is to give attention to this topic so that through the legislative activities of the National Assembly and the efforts of the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, a special state holiday called the Day of Protector of Homeland and State Unity, which would mark the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32320	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32321	Thank you. More than six thousand council members in 136 municipalities of Serbia have unanimously declared themselves to accept the declaration of ban on importing admissions and transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms. These are the municipalities and cities that are painted with green paint on the map of the Republic of Serbia. In the area of these 80.5% of the total number of local self-governments, 223 MPs from this assembly are living, so the question arises why MPs living and working on the territory of those 136 local self-governments do not want to support the declaration that their local self-governments unanimously adopted. By the way, do you know that in the World Seed Bank, there are no lagers of genetically modified organisms? If it's so good, why don't they fake it for future generations? Obviously, there is a discrepancy between what is the marketing of genetically modified organisms and what is the essence of things. Serbia is one of the few countries that can fully ensure self-satisfaction in the production of food for humans and cattle, not only for its own needs, but also for exports. For example, before the break-up of Yugoslavia, the degree of self-sufficiency in food production in Serbia is 122.4% and in Vojvodina, as much as 237%. In Slovenia, the degree of self-satisfaction was only 66.3%. Serbia is not in the same situation as the EU which imports large quantities of genetically modified corn and genetically modified soybeans, we export large quantities of genetically modified soybeans and genetically modified corn. Instead of turning our own livestock and raw materials into high-value meat and milk processing and exporting them under the trade mark, without genetically modified organisms and thus becoming marketable. In this way, we would also provide far more funding for science and education, as I remember the period when students from the Netherlands came to practice at the Institute of War and Vrvatstvo in Novi Sad, when scientists from Western European countries came to scientific gatherings in Serbia to learn the latest information about Serbian hybrids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32322	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Government Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against the Armenians, committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none of the 132 MPs against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the A.D.'s work permit for the insurance of "Such Insurance", Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Waters and Casualties. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32323	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the hostages and the ballast are a very dangerous thing. Let's just say, when my colleague the farmer who just proposed to send us all for a psychiatric examination, who didn't even pass, then it's time to think about political reasons, to forgive. We all remember how well Mr Vladimir Pavicevic spoke of the deposits, we remember well. That's the man who sat next to the commander of the opposition, Zoran Zivkovic, and just to warn those who are with him, that he is very dangerous as a tick. Where he attaches himself, there's no big business here, but it's gone, but nothing left but a solitaire. That'll be about two percent. We remember well as Vladimir Pavicevic talked about the deposits, and then Mr. Zivkovic called him – the failed doctor became a political archbishop. When we talk about the deposits, we need to remember that. Those who went out after him, here's what he said about them just recently, so on June 1, 2017, he probably wanted to talk about the deposits, so he said – a set of opposition without ideas, programs and goals. My brain isn't abroad, so I can talk about the deposits of various species. He says of Djindjic, a hostage statement, that Zivkovic's solution was rejected because he predicted that the monument of Djindjic would be built exclusively from forks and knives, according to former President Tadic. Well, he wasn't making a monument out of vadicepov. Those who, he says, are amazed at the amount of nonsense and lies spoken by the former president of Serbia, Zivkovic, who joined the coalition with him two days ago. Then on, says Zivkovicev Tadic. Tadic broke the DS. He made DS an opera, an opera house, etc. It's the ones who send us for a psychiatric examination. Then go on. Tadic – DS has not been DS for more than eight years, and as of today he is no longer a party; he also told Djilas about the deposits, Zoran Zivkovic, who now offers Gilasa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32324	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for seven, against none, the abstentioned, there is none of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the law and the evaluators of immovableity. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against those who are abstentioned, there is none of the 133 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against those who are abstentioned, there is none of the 133 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against those who are abstentioned, there is none of the 133 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games on Happiness. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against those who are abstentioned, there is none of the 133 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against those who are abstentioned, there is none of the 133 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against those who are abstentioned, there is none of the 133 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on international road traffic. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32325	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, road traffic is very important, especially in the transport of cargo, goods and people. If there hadn't been a change, I believe, that there wouldn't have been workers who could travel the road, there wouldn't have been any goods, ours, which can be transported by these roads, there wouldn't be employees, there wouldn't be anything. Anything wild privatization, predatory, could do, they did. They're not here today. They left us. The people left a long time ago. They robbed him rawly, left him, I can't remember if they were able to build a 50km highway, or half a highway. They were not interested in rail or road traffic. They were interested in yachts, boats, white seas. I suggest they register them, as they are constantly calling for injustice to register a Maldives party, since they are highly respected in the Maldives and are more often in the Maldives than in the parliamentary benches. Maybe that's how they cross natural censorship, Mr. Chairman. I believe that a party to the Maldives National Minority made up of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32326	This is an agreement with Moldova, not the Maldives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32327	What? Maldives. I said Maldivesk. So, the Maldives National Minority, they didn't care about the agreement with Moldova, you misunderstood, no roads, no roads, no passengers, no workers, no goods, no industry, nothing. The Maldives mattered to her, and that's why I'm comparing them. So, they couldn't make the highway to Maldives, they were using planes, they were using yachts, they were eating lobsters in the Maldives, the people weren't important to them, and that's why I suggest that since the elections are being held according to their rules, they say it's an injustice, that they register a party of the Maldives national minority in the future, because they're more often there than in these benches, they might fill that natural censorship of 0.35%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32328	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Slavisa Ristic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify facts and circumstances that led to a dramatic increase in violence against Serbs and non-Albanian populations in the north of Kosovo and Metohija from 2013 to today. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances and to consider the situation in which the "Belgrade on Water" Project is currently in place. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, is restrained, is present, 132 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbian Democracy, Justice" committed in Kosovo Mitrovica, on 16 January 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in the part of the city known as Savamal on 25 April 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Taxation. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings — Proposal for a Law on Proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on financial support for the family with children. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against none, abstentioned, none, of the total attendance of 133 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Excise Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against none, abstentioned, none, of the total attendance of 133 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against none, abstentioned, none, of the total attendance of 133 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Co-production (audited). The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I do not surrender as easily as some of my colleagues. I will insist on convincing you that the suggestions in the congregation procedure are worth putting on the agenda, but I will not leave this congregation unsatisfactory by failing to convince a sufficient number of colleagues. As for cinematography and co-production, I believe this law could make us far more money from that area than it has ever been. The country, who knows what time I have to say, which we inherited and which we got to manage, was an abandoned and abandoned country, with no chance for the present and future generations, even from this area. I believe we can make a lot more money on filmmaking and co-production than we do right now. Imagine a movie of horrors and horrors, the movie Return of written down, the return of the party of the former regime to power. Imagine shooting, hypothetically, a movie like that? My fellow citizens, imagine if someone filmed a possible return of the yellows to power? I believe most of the citizens would get chilly. Even those who had never voted for us, the running step would go to the polls to vote to prevent it, and therefore I believe that it should be made such a film with a hypothetical tendency, that the film shows the horror and horror that would result if they returned to power and got the state registers they left empty, and now it's filled enough and then they would go not to build, they would start to fit in. So they would do nothing to the people, and they would build themselves up, and the people would create. They could also make cartoons. My fellow farmer is ideal for that thing. One more thing, they could play till they're willing in those movies. I'm not used to playing as others film and play, and those who are used to playing as others play would easily find the owner of the player. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32330	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—no one, of the total attendance of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Taxation on Undeclared Income of Citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom none, abstentioned, is present, of the 133 messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none abstained, is among the 132 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none abstained, is among the 132 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none, is abstentioned, is among the 130 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none, is abstentioned, is among the 130 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none, is abstentioned, is among the 130 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none, is abstentioned, is among the 130 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none, is abstentioned, is among the 130 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom none, is abstentioned, is among the 130 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of urbanism, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 January 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the agreement with Turkey on urbanism is very important to me. Any agreement with Turkey, which is a very important country to us, even with less important countries, is now valuable to Serbia. The situation we found was next. Following various agreements made by Jeremic, Tadic, following the International Court of Justice's opinion, which we did not need, following a changed UN resolution, the situation was such that we stuck to the air. So the only thing left to hold onto is the air. We didn't have anything else. This power seems to have caught the eagle in flight. Our position is far better. Mr. Orlic, I didn't say eagle, I said eagle. Our position is improving. Every agreement is very important, not just about urbanism, agriculture, 5,000 tons of beef. That's 20,000 tolls, a hero, 20,000 cattle, to export the meat 5,000, no customs. This is the result of the new policy and new leadership of the country. Jeremic, apart from his oil source, a Texas, oil source in the village of Ježevica near Cačka, was not interested. Gilas except for his grandfather's gold mine, beside the torn shoes, was nothing more interested. This authority is interested in international agreements, trade. So 15,000 liters of oil, thousands of tons of sunflower. This is the result of improving the relationship between our country and Turkey. So I believe, if not now, you'll put this on the agenda in the future. I, of course, will not give up. I'm not like these guys here. Therefore, the people need to see whom by his own will, undisputedly, he has sent to the congregation and no longer does so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32332	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, among the 131 Messengers of the people, is amongst the seven. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against Allah, is a self-sufficient one, of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have abstention, has any of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy against shareholders from the First Five-year-old Tristenik system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have abstention, has any of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Conservation of Blind Mouse Populations in Europe. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32333	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although at first sight it doesn't seem to be a serious matter, but in terms of healthy nutrition, this is very important in agriculture. So Europe recognized it for healthy food because bats destroy insects in agricultural crops. What birds do during the day, they do at night. Each of them destroys 3,000 insects. There's less spray, there's less protection, there's less chemistry, there's less to worry about. When you go to the store, you can always find enough quality, good product. Here to some who had left the topic seemed unserious. Apparently, there are other mouse populations in the restaurants and cafes. Probably my farmer's colleague sees white mice instead of these at the moment, but, my God, he only dealt with agriculture until he took 25,000 euros of folk money, he was a farmer in an attempt, took money and bought an apartment for 500,000 euros in Belgrade, in Vratar. We must spend our time in every segment, like any man, in labor, in effort and in battle. Whoever doesn't, he's a failure. Unlike these, I will keep trying to put these proposals, which are governmental, on the agenda at some future sessions and try, unlike these refugees, and tell the people it's time to change the opposition, because this one is impossible to weaken. They have more leaders than they have non-members. So, right now, the ones that came out, they're more like leaders than their ballots have voters. I'll still try to show them that they spend time in work, effort, that it's better to be and spend time on the plow, the plowing, not on the couch and in the cafe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32334	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are no more than 130 people's messengers for eight, against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Dusan Pavlovic and Saša Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have abstention, has any of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Dusan Pavlovic, Dr Ratko Janko and Mr Jasmina Nikolic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have abstention, has any of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have abstention, has any of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have abstention, has any of the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers of Commerce. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentions, has any of the 130 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32335	National MP Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and the addition of the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MPs Tatjana Macura and Branka Stamenkovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of domestic violence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of MPs I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No proposal accepted. National MP Branka Stamenković suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the peaceful settlement of work disputes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32336	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I am still not giving up my proposal, unlike some who have left this House, and I believe that citizens are very much appreciated and will not allow them to return in the next election and to do their votes a favor for themselves and for us. The proposal for a peaceful settlement of labour disputes is primarily because of workers, who are more and more busy in this country, unlike not so far away when they fell out of the business chain and were deleted from the list of people deserve to live the life of a man. Apart from losing their jobs, they have lost their dignity and now given their new employment, especially in production, it is time for us to make it easier for them to have these working disputes with employers to resolve as peacefully as possible because it is time for them to return not only their jobs, to regain their dignity that they can work honestly and from that honest work to live, to heal and to be able to educate their children, which has not been the case for those who wanted 400,000 hardworking, honest people to turn into social cases. Not only did they damage the families of these workers, themselves, but they thus damaged them with the long-standing consequences and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, PIO, the Health Fund, because instead of 400,000 pension-inhabited contributions, that is, social contributions, we were left without it and instead of people doing business, to be in the business chain, from income they went to waste. So I suggest we put this law on the agenda because I think our desire for success is undeniable, and wish and faith in success is half a success, and I want and believe in success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32337	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Before we determine the agenda, please determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. 122 MPs are present, so I'm setting a 15-minute break. Please remain here to determine the agenda of the session before the regular break. Thank you. [[After a break.]] To determine the number of present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. 128 MPs are present. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 2nd. 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Foreign Affairs; Proposal for a Law on Supplements of the Law on Accounting; Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Bank; Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Law on the Rights of the Rights of the Bank; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Rights of the Bank of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Added Value; Proposal for a Law on the Charter of the Treaty on Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law of the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Regulation on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic ofSerbia ; Proposal for the Republic ofSerbia ; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia on the Republic ofSerbia ; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic ofSerbia ; Proposal for the Republic of Germany for the GermanDevelopment. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted one MP for – 129. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 157(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs; Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Accounting; Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rights; Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Rights of the Rights; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Amendments of the Treaty on the Law on the Law on the Rights of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Laws of the Bank; Proposal for the Law on the Charter of the Treaty on the Treaty on Taxation of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Provisions of the Law on the Provisions of the Treaty on the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia in favour of the GermanDevelopment , theBank ,KfW ,Frankfurt ,Frankfurt , Frankfurt andFrankfurt , the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on theEuropean. I now set a break until 15.00 hours, when we will continue to work in the presence of authorised ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Zoran Djordjevic, Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and control of public spending, and Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32340	Dear People's MPs, you today have a whole series of draft laws, or amendments and additions. I'll just list them all. Proposal for a Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs; Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Law on Audit; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Census Act; Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Law on Tax Procedures and Tax Administration; Proposal for a Law on the Treaty on Census; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Laws of the Act on the Laws of the Law on the Added Value; Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Tax Procedures of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank; Proposal for the Act of the Act on the Act on the Law of the Act of the Act on the Act of the Act on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Law of the Treaty on the Treaty on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia; Proposals of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Europeans, the Europeans, the Europeans, the Europeans, the Europeans and the Europeans, the Republic of Serbia and the Europeans, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Europeans, the Republic to the Europeans, the Republic to the Republic to the Europeans, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia. I am here today on behalf of the Government to present these 16 draft laws, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law, calling on you to vote for these laws, of course in the day of voting. I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has certainly proposed these changes and additions with its responsible work, which will certainly enable the Government to function much better and more functionally and that all changes are going, in fact in the direction of making the government's work as transparent as possible, to be more efficient and, of course, that we have a better result both as a government and as a state, and that we will certainly in the coming years all of what we are doing today and all of this which will be proposed changes and additions, let me say, some of its significance and will be seen in application. What I would single out today, it's certainly the first one, it's the bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, and I think it's certainly very important. The reason for the adoption of this law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia AP, a unit of local self-government, covering all key aspects of social and economic development policy and regional and spatial development with optimal use of budgetary resources, ensuring sustainable growth and development, to effectively implement the EU accession process particularly in the context of requirements arising from negotiating chapters 17 and 22. The efficient planning system at the level of the Republic of Serbia AP and local self-government units, in particular, implies the following things: coordinated public policy planning by competent public policy makers, planning public policies under the obligation to carry out an analysis of the effects, as well as the obligation to present an analysis of the effects in the process of adopting public policy documents and regulations, standardisation of planning documents at all levels with commitments in the process of accession of the Republic of Serbia, consistent medium-term plans, i.e. medium-term planning by bodies responsible for implementing concrete measures or activities from documented public policies, establishing a mechanism for the control of public policy implementation, the establishment of public policies, i.e. the work on public policy documents and regulations in a transparent manner and through the implementation of consultations with all stakeholders that wish to participate in the process of consultation as citizens and other civil society organisations, the establishment of public policies, including the necessaryness of public policies and the need to ensure that the need to ensure that the necessaryness of the necessaryness and transparency and transparency of the policies, as well as necessary. Of course, this bill also regulates the obligation to carry out consultations when making documents of public policies and regulations, and the sublegal act will regulate the method and consultation to select an optimal method of consultation in a specific situation, which is the purpose of providing the impulses necessary to make quality and efficient regulation. It is noticeable that in practice it is not clear what the purpose of the consultation is, what is the purpose of the public debate, so this law clearly defines their essence and prescribes implementation obligations. I have to tell you that there was something like this, but it wasn't in the form of the law, that of course we, as the government in the previous period, worked in a very similar way. However, it has become a need to introduce a system solution, i.e. a law that will be binding, not only on the government but also on our AP and also on local self-government to plan and certainly implement public policies in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the guidelines that both the Government and the National Assembly have, and that we will certainly try to import both local self-government and autonomous provinces, but also on the government itself come up with concrete solutions that will certainly be made in the most transparent way, the best and in the interests of all our citizens. In the end, once again to avoid being overly burdened, I invite you to vote for this in the voting day. We've worked very carefully to amend and supplement these laws, so they're ahead of you, and I expect us to vote unanimously for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32341	I thank Minister Djordjevic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please sign in. The word has the People's MP Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32342	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers Djordjevic, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead with a set of financial laws that Serbia as a country whose strategic commitment to EU membership is to bring in order to become an equal member of the European People's Community. The proposed laws in front of the National Assembly today are in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and Serbia on the other hand. Given that the implementation of the SAA is a prerequisite for Serbia's positive assessment of negotiations with the EU, it is also clear why it is necessary to bring our legislation into line with the European one. We know that the two most important obligations Serbia has made with this agreement are the establishment of a free trade zone and harmonisation of legislation with EU law. In that sense, one of the preconditions for meeting these obligations is to amend and supplement the Foreign Exchange Act, which we are discussing today. I would like to point out here that the harmonisation of our financial laws with European legislation should not be seen as mere objectives and obligations set before us by the EU, but among other things, those laws want to achieve certain positive economic effects, such as enabling a simpler, faster and easier flow of money, and thus both goods and services, both within Serbia and between Serbia and the rest of the world. One of the newspapers of the Foreign Exchange Act is that it is specifically given an incentive for the export-oriented IT industry. If we take into account information that Serbia could increase software exports from $800m to $2 billion now, you will agree with respected colleagues, that it is obviously the industry to be helped, because the software is the best finished product Serbia can export at the moment. How important these amendments to the law are is that, if adopted, and I hope so, it will allow companies to run their digital business from Serbia around the world. All of this directly affects at least three elements of our overall economy, as well as society at all. First, the share of high-tech and finished products in total exports is increasing. Secondly, the structure of the labour force involved in the creation of export products is significantly improved by the participation of a larger number of highly qualified experts. Third, highly educated personnel will be motivated to live and work in Serbia. The paper adopted by the bill is also that Serbian citizens will be able to trade digital products among themselves and to realise foreign exchange transactions. So Serbian sellers will no longer break laws if someone, also from Serbia, wants to buy their software. To clarify, according to current law, those who deal with this trade in Serbia, if the buyer pays them in exchange for foreign exchanges, because in Serbia, the dinar is the only legal means of payment. Those who are seriously involved in this work have managed to establish their companies abroad, mainly in the surrounding countries or have been charged by colleagues who already have a company abroad. So in order to white out the foreign currency violations, they had to roll around in various ways, which will no longer be the case. It is also good that this regulation applies to electronic books that are highly sought, both in the world and in ours. I, Minister Djordjevic, believe that Serbia will not only stand on these changes and that gradually all online payments will be brought in line with similar EU rules. I hope that the regulation will be passed and that those who sell other physical goods online can pay in foreign currency, if both the buyer and the seller are Serbian residents, as will be the case in the IT sector. The proposed amendments to the Foreign Exchange Law, which relate to payments from abroad, will also bring joy to humanitarian organisations registered in Serbia. In the future, they will be able to receive donations from abroad, without breaking the law. This is the fastest way to help in emergency situations like those we had in Serbia in 2014. When we talk about the Foreign Exchange Act, I can't, not to mention the crypto currency and the most attractive bit of coin, as a means of payment, which is what almost the entire planet is talking about today. We know that in Serbia, the only currency that can be paid, except in special cases prescribed by law, is what we are talking about here today. The National Bank of Serbia does not consider the value of the currency, so it does not allow banks and exchangeholders to deal with the purchase or sale of the essence of the coin. On the other hand, the purchase of cryptcurrency is not prohibited by law. The European Union, as I understand it, and if not, correct me, has taken the view that the exchange of virtual currencies is considered financial transactions. I wonder if Serbia is thinking about how it will deal with the krypto currency in the future, and will this type of financial transaction someday be introduced into the legal frameworks? Of course, I don't think that can happen overnight, because Serbia gradually aligns its legislation with European and, in that sense, we have good financial and other laws here. That is true, it also confirms that foreigners see more and more interest in investing in Serbia. If we didn't have good laws, Serbia wouldn't be in their focus. I will illustrate this by example of Croatian portals that are criticising their country's government, that it is far from an attractive destination for foreign investors, with regrets saying that Serbia, I quote, has cut across the region and picked up all foreign investments. We have attracted seven billion euros in foreign investment over the past three years, which is about four billion euros more than in Croatia. Here are two new investments now announced, and it's the automotive industry. One goes to Vojvodina, and one goes to central Serbia, Cachak, which makes me particularly happy. In fact, Germany's Forverk company will invest in building a car parts factory in Cačka about 50m euros, and the plan is to employ 1,000 people. These are just two out of 54 projects that Serbia should soon bring two and a half billion euros of foreign investment and open space for 30,000 jobs. It is good that Serbia has recognised the trend of moving industry from Western Europe to the east, and we have to take that chance, with reasonable caution, you will agree. The benefits of foreign investment are obvious. Definitely exports from one side and jobs on the other. But what we need to do even more is create better conditions for domestic investors. In that sense, Minister Vujovic recently, when the journalists asked him – is there room for tax cuts, said there is, but not much, so my question is – how much is this space and what else could be easier for domestic investors? There are several other important draft laws before us today, such as the draft law supplementing the Accounting Act, then the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Audit and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the factoring law. So these are important system laws, because the quality of the financial reports and the quality of the revision of these reports depends on the quality of the real picture of the situation in the economy, and, among other things, the arrival of new investors who want to see the real financial reports of the companies they are interested in. These reports also depend on a realistic display of the basis for taxation, property tax and profit tax. After all, it depends on both budget income and deficit size. Therefore, the final account of a company must be a credible document, and in order to be such, all those responsible for its creation must also possess adequate credibility. It is precisely for these reasons that the proposed provisions which prevent legal and natural persons, if they are legally convicted of certain criminal offences or if criminal proceedings are conducted against them, shall be founders, owners, or members of the management body of companies, or entrepreneurs in the activities of accounting, audit and factoring. All these changes are proposed in the context of the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to adapt its legislation to the highest international standards in the area of preventing and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing. In this way, Serbia clearly shows that it is in line with countries that are fighting against these phenomena. I think all of this, of course, is with some possible amendments that will make it more precise and accessible to understand the proposed laws, more than good reasons to adopt these laws and to support their consistent implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32343	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please sign in. Absolutely no one has been reported in the electronic system, and if it stays that way, we must move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. Once again, do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts set out in points 1 to 19 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. I'm sorry. I see you've conspired. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. I see you're in the room of your colleague, Ferratovic, just do you have a card? Please sign in now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32344	I thank the Honorable Chairman for his understanding. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Minister, today we have a large number of points to discuss. What I want to focus my exposure on is amendments to the law on gambling. As you know, in our country, gambling is one of the special topics that burdens all those citizens who are thinking about a healthy environment. On behalf of the citizens of Novi Pazar, we have recently petitioned 10,000 signatures to the competent ministries, demanding that the law on gambling be respected exclusively, when it comes to the distance of these facilities from schools, i.e. that applicable regulation referred to in Article 86 which requires these facilities to be 200 metres away from school. Of course, we have also passed a law that will enter the next session in the process, absolutely prohibits all possible gambling games, as well as several amendments, with the aim of saying that these games, bookshops, which burden and enhance our society, and are particularly dangerous for the underage population, for the students, for the students, for the cities that are inhabited. So we had a basis, say, that in one of the most successful countries in the world today, or even before, we had adopted the principle that such types of business could only harm society in general, so let's say, the United States, banned or removed, allowed only certain places to play gambling, while Russia completely banned any gambling on its territory. Our society is very threatened by this plague, and we believe that in the coming period as many steps as possible to implement the current law, i.e. that, and to the extent that the Law provides for these bookies, and casinos, such institutions are far from educational institutions, respect, and that all other members of the law that are quite restrictive and which should enable such control of this work. We are aware that very often this gambling business, unfortunately, is dealt with, especially in smaller environments, people who are trying to build both political and other power. So, for example, at the center of Novi Pazar, at a bookshop not more than 200 metres from the educational institution, one inscription “La Casa Nostra” was placed. Everyone in this country and the whole world knows what it means, knows what it suggests, and in order for the situation to be even worse, that place is owned by a close relative of a high-ranking official of this country. It is very important that, in addition to these amendments and the addition of this Law on Happiness, I urge the Government to adopt the amendments that we have submitted, and I also urge all fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support, in the next period, when it comes to the procedure and our proposal to ban games, that we prevent this great evil that destroys, destroys families, destroys Serbian society, and in particular has negative consequences for minors, per student and student population in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32345	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not there. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32346	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I am first pleased with the efficiency of Parliament. Apparently, some have made us not present that this people and this country have lost nothing by not coming to the sessions, on the contrary, every day we win. As far as the bill is concerned, I fully support all the proposals and here there are some interesting bill proposals, let's say, a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. I am sorry that my colleague is not here to explain to us that, in their time, even the Serbia lottery was at a disadvantage, and that is almost unlikely, and they were getting some research, whether you were satisfied with your life, by two, three million dinars, and so instead of some public function, the lottery, of those revenues instead of public affairs, made public actions by private businesses and, in doing so, severely deceived the people. As far as foreign exchange law is concerned, I hope that the foreign exchange inflow in this country will grow immediately year after year, in this regard I am obliged to commend the management of the state because over the past few years, the coverage of imports and exports has risen from 50 percent to almost 80%, which guarantees us with the inflow of investments that we will not have a problem with foreign exchanges, therefore, that foreign reserves will remain stable. With that in mind, I have to say that this allows GDP to grow, which, unlike the growth that once had, those who escaped from the session, not based on services, to sell other people's goods, so on the trade, make false GDP growth, in fact, you raised production not of your country but of the countries where you imported it. With this in mind, this growth in GDP in the past few years is based on the production of services in tourism, which guarantees stable foreign exchange revenues, incomes to our country. In this respect, it brings us, of course, higher taxes, as soon as it brings us bigger taxes, which guarantees us that we can touch pensions without any problems, project their growth, project salary growth in the public sector and watch carefully and watch and see that the real sector is paid, if nothing else, it monitors the growth of wages in the public sector. We must, and I will end it, to leave time for other colleagues, we must be worthy, working, patient, hardworking. We must work on ourselves every day, we must work for the benefit of our people, not against the people, as they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32347	I thank my colleague Rističević. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. He's not there. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32348	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, when you deal with the economy, then you have dreams and imaginations. When you come to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia today and the economic topics don't pay attention to the opposition, it is more than any evidence that Serbia is on the right track today. To remind you, to remind the citizens of Serbia, to remind my fellow MPs, only three years ago we discussed key economic parameters and these discussions were completely different. And however different, when Serbia was then on the verge of collapse, when we signed a contract with the IMF, which ended several months ago, these were the first laws concerning economic matters after the conclusion of the agreement several months ago, Serbia was on the verge of economic collapse. It took us three years to pass essential, systemic, economic laws, to change Serbia, in this parliament that the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes and we vote, they said -- difficult laws. The laws that definitely gave the results. The best indicator in Serbia's parliament is today's debate on a set of economic laws, the first since the completion of a bilateral agreement with the IMF. We have system reforms that we have completed in the last three years. Today we are not talking about the deficit of the Serbian state, we are not talking about the deficit of the Republic of Serbia's budget, we are not talking about the deficit of the general state budget. The economic situation in Serbia today looks completely different. We're talking about a surplus. When we talk about other things we've done in the past three years, and that's about public debt. He's at 60% today. Sixty per cent is the limit of mastriction for countries with a deficit of 0.9 per cent. For these three years, we've had a stable monetary policy, so we can't say we've had any inflation problems. Never in Serbia's history has inflation been lower, we have never had lower inflation expectations, never had Serbia in monetary policy had less interest rates for the economy sector and the population sector. It's all behind us. These results allowed us to pass such a set of laws today, we have this debate. A set of laws regarding systemic changes in one part of our economy. These are, to be realistic and honest, laws that are more or less technical. The whole set of these laws concerns the repair and different functioning of institutions, i.e. removing the shortcomings we have seen. There are no big, complicated economic decisions. These are decisions that should make the institutions that regulate Serbia's economic order different and better. These are decisions that concern, first of all, ourselves, that we have a correct and proper attitude towards public revenues, that Serbia begins to function completely differently. Practically, these decisions regulate the system that works, edit it in the field of accounting, edit it in the field of monetary policy, i.e. exchange affairs, or foreign exchange affairs. We arrange it in the field of tax policy and all of these are more or less technical things that a common assembly should bring when it sees there are problems. Of course, we also align these decisions with EU decisions, why not say with chapter 4, because we want to become part of an orderly system with the Fahma system, all of these are things that work. Essentially, in fact, when we change these laws, and the first parts and first sets of laws concern personal biographies of owners, i.e. persons who are owners of exchange offices, accounting agencies, in fact we are looking for the history of their biography, their functioning, their responsibility, their correct relationship, and very often we say – according to budget revenues, fiscal revenues, I like to say, according to the single market, we all operate by the same rules and by the same principles. When we make today and vote today on this set of laws, what I would especially like to highlight is the laws that are at the end, or decisions that are made in the end. Today we are discussing the selection of state agency leadership, or DRI. It is an institution which is a relatively young institution in the functioning of the Serbian state and perhaps because we didn't have it, we had such fiscal problems. Other well-ordered happy countries have a centuries-long DRI, and we're only ten years old, but that's a period that we can say that this DRI has done a lot of things. When each of us, when Serbia's public gets thousands and thousands of materials from 12,000 direct and indirect users of the Republic of Serbia's budget which are subject to review, and the institution, it's a huge hard work that gives the Serbian Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia, a correct control mechanism to monitor what is happening, both from the republican and local budget. It is an institution that controls the final account of the Republic of Serbia, controls the consolidated and final accounts of local self-government, political parties, practically, a vast part of the financial institutions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So 3,500 billion assets, 6,321 billion non-financial assets, 2,472 billion income and income, 3,500 billion, 3,500 billion expenditures are controlled by the DRI. Her significance, her role is enormous. It's actually one team. Today, when we choose the leadership of the DRI that will continue to carry out the same work that it has done over the past 10 years and to achieve significant results, we are actually continuing the continuity of the DRI. The deputy director of the DRI is someone who performed that function. Mr. Sretenovic is leaving the DRI today, but he must be given a confession because he has given a personal seal that this institution works that way. The DRI director's office is being attended by a man who had 50% in his sub-foli business activities, i.e. he was engaged, I think, in the most disorganised sector in the functioning of the fiscal order of the Serbian state, these are local administrations. When you control 6,000 direct and indirect users of the budget, then your responsibility is as it is, it's big, but the results are high. The state audit institution has a key role to play to help the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, control, but at the same time remove any shortcomings it faces contrary to the laws and anything else that makes it the headquarters and defender of the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are discussing today a set of economic laws on which there is no big debate, when we propose a few days ago, and the committee is choosing key factors, the personality of stability in the DRI, and you no longer have a proposal, then it says that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the state institutions dealing with fiscal and monetary policy are doing their job well. Citizens of Serbia, it is undeniable that every economic decision also withdraws certain obligations. These commitments that are made today are in fact fully fiscal and neutral, these decisions will not cause any increase in any kind of tax, or fiscal burden on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we can say that there will be an increase in wages in the next period of time, which is undeniable, and if there is an undisputed fiscal discharge, if the debate in the Serbian Parliament today on key, technical and economic laws looks like this, and how can you not vote for such decisions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and such decisions by the ruling majority?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32349	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. He's not there. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32350	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, today I will discuss, among other things, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act, as it is one of the important laws, especially due to the development and expansion of the IT sector in the Republic of Serbia. We can say that the reasons for the adoption of this bill are the following: The draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act continues to comply with the obligations undertaken by the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in the part of the movement of capital on the basis of short-term, portfolio investments and short-term financial loans and loans. We know that portfolio investments represent capital investments through various types of securities of value. A typical example of portfolio investment is the broadcasting and placement of bonds. In order to raise funds for certain needs of state institutions, banks and businesses emit bonds that are placed on the financial market. The draft law fulfils the obligations of the Organisation for the Control and Prevention of Money Laundering and Harmonisation with international standards in the areas of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Finally, the draft law provides for amendments aimed at creating a more favourable business environment, as well as amendments relating to jurisdiction in the exercise of business control and foreign exchange operations of residents and non-residents. In advance, I have already mentioned the development of the IT sector in Serbia, and the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act will make it possible to make it easier for IT companies to buy or sell software and other digital products via the internet, in the future, for foreign exchanges. Therefore, IT companies that have foreign exchanges and depending on imports will no longer have to convert them into dinars. More specifically, changes and additions to the Law are also proposed that payments in foreign exchanges in Serbia can also be made in the case of the purchase of software and other digital products on the Internet, and that if payments are made via banks, payment institutions, electronic money institutions based in Serbia. The second news is that our citizens will be able to trade charters of value, whose handiwork is shorter than one year, which are broadcast by EU Member States. This change extends the possibility of investors, although investments in these short-term charters of values issued by EU Member States are currently not making more money for our country, as it is important that foreigners also buy our state securities from values, with a deadline of less than one year. The proposed changes and additions will allow residents, we know that they are legal or natural persons, who have a permanent residence in one country and whose law recognises the status of a local person, regardless of nationality, to invest in short-term securities of value, whose publishers are from the Member States of the European Union, i.e. non-residents from EU member states are free to pay, to invest in short-term securities of value in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, the proposed amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act would be prescribed in the law itself that residents can freely invest in long-term debt securities from EU legal entities, which has so far been governed by a sublegal act. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act also contains solutions that will contribute to creating more favourable conditions for business and, above all, to the development of innovation entrepreneurship and information technologies, which is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore needs to be adopted. I have decided to comment on the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, because it is one of the most important laws in the tax and economic system, which depends particularly on the scope and potential in the budget of funding of all state and constitutional competences of the state during one fiscal year. The basic reasons for the adoption of this law, the problems that the law should address, i.e. the objectives achieved by law, are to comply with the Law on financial support for the family with children and to continue to comply with EU rules governing the area of VAT taxation. If there are problems in practice in certain segments of society, law-making is the best way to solve these problems, because it is a legal matter that is only possible to change the relevant amendments to the law. In addition, the regulation of tax-legal matter makes a contribution to legal certainty and also provides transparency in the conduct of tax policy. In fact, the law is a general legal act to be published and which creates equal rights and obligations for all entities in the same tax and legal situation, thus achieving transparency in its application. Taking into account the need to further improve public infrastructures in the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible, to adequately use good in general use and provide services of general interest, it is certain that the proposed solutions would lead to greater motivation of private partners to target their financial resources towards projects that would allow for the proposed legislation. Especially interesting for me as a doctor, who has spent the entire working life dealing with and dealing with young people and their problems, are members of this law that are in line with the other set of laws that are essential for facilitating family formation and increasing birth rate. One of Serbia's strategic goals is to increase the birth rate, which is as important as the country's economic stability. A special recognition for the promotion of population policy must be given to President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who, in addition to fighting for every job, factory, project, improvement of living conditions, at all the most significant increase in pensions and salaries, will not and will not ignore what is essential, which is the formation of a family and the birth of children. To this end, President Vucic made a decision on the establishment of a Council on Population Policy, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has also adopted a strategy and measures to encourage population policy. Fear and economic uncertainty are the primary basis for reducing the birth rate, and during the previous government, the country has impoverished the people, who were insecure, fearing the future first for themselves and then for their offspring. Now our economy is getting better, and that's why we're going to solve a huge Natalie problem. To that end, this law also defines an increased amount of VAT to be refunded for the purchase of baby food and equipment, as well as restrictions relating to net income and total parent property, i.e. guardians. Then, given that young couples find it difficult to reach their own apartment, allowing VAT refunds to buy first place to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia who buy the first apartment that is the subject of the mortgage, in the sense of prescribing that the purchase of such an apartment can be entitled to a VAT refund based on the purchase of the first apartment. Decisions of the Amending and Supplements Act on VAT will, above all, affect economic operators, i.e. taxpayers of VAT and citizens, and since the application of this law should not generate additional costs, the consequences of its adoption can only be positive and I am of the opinion that it should be adopted to ensure the right to assume the timely application of its provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32351	Thank you, colleague Krivokapic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this agenda is full of quality proposals, namely the title of the bill, and whether it will essentially improve the lives of Serbian citizens, I am absolutely sure it will not. That's what you're safe about, Mr. Minister. Twenty points of the agenda that you explain in a total time of six minutes and 52 seconds speaks enough. You paid most attention to the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. This is indeed one set of different laws per citizen of Serbia, it would say, very important. The Tax Administration Act, the Tax Procedure, the VAT Act, the Excise Act, the Law on Games, and similar are laws that give rise to a lot of obligations, and the truth is, colleagues who have spoken, that these laws do not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's absolutely true, but they lead even to a better quality of Serbian citizens, so the question is, does it make sense to do all this? Dear fellow MPs, they are not a rapper today for the lives of Serbian citizens on the right side of the SRS MPs. They are certainly the past in Serbia, but, for God's sake, you have taken great responsibility. The citizens of Serbia have shown you trust, we know well how and for what reason, counting that they will live better with you, and that is not how you should talk, or I should argue with you. They know it well and are absolutely dissatisfied. I'll go through just a few practical examples here to show you that our discussion is absolutely right. We will soon have exactly one inflation, i.e. we already have, inflation of the rules that we are making, i.e. you vote for them in the National Assembly, and that neither the most direct beneficiaries, not the citizens of Serbia, often the ignorant party, which, because of their obligations, can even follow everything that is the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but those who directly apply certain regulations, will see that there is nothing of it. I, when it comes to these tax laws, have consulted people who practically apply it in practice and, of course, I have seen that in several of these laws, it is the law on additions to the Accounting Act, the Law on Audition, the Law on Games on Happiness, where you say, that is, the promoter says that certain persons who have committed a crime, both physically and legally, who put something on the burden, cannot deal with certain activities. It's the subject of amending and supplementing the applicable laws. Does that have any quality? There isn't. Of course, you can tell who can't handle certain activities. Have they even matured the conditions that we are a little more serious about the real sector, the real economy, or production? The right to tell you, and I doubt the proposings' intentions, in this case, is the Government, when it comes to the Law on Supplements to the Excise Law and where you say who will be released, or that oil derivatives will be released for the sake of the possibility of the economy investing in new development, in expanding new capacities. Who can invest in Serbia today? First of all, these are foreign companies, i.e. companies established under the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia, but where the founding capital or stakes are from abroad, they are certainly a large number of tycoons and we cannot say that there are no honest people who have managed to raise their level of business to an enviable level, where nothing can be challenged. There's a lot more of these and these. I get the impression that very often, under certain pressures, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has access to certain amendments and amendments to the law in order to meet even more foreign investors. We have nothing against foreign investment. Of course, all of this needs to be supported, but we need to take a little more care of domestic economic operators. Mr. Minister, this is your area, it wasn't before, of course, but in this period, I'm pretty sure you know that taxes and contributions to profits, you know what they're worth? They're 64%. So, on 100 dinars paid, 64 dinars are obligations. Is this a positive act and an attempt to help domestic businessmen? It's not. You're talking a long time ago, the former prime minister, now the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, said he would help us, that the goal was to capture as many taxpayers as possible, and that should be the desire and goal of every serious state, and that the basis would be reduced. Do we have that? We don't even have six years of SNS power, we have a situation where we have 64% of our tax obligations and profit contributions. We have another situation. Here, a number of colleagues speak nicely about the need to develop agriculture, and it is indeed a serious chance for the Serbian state. Of course, a large number of agricultural producers are not directly involved in developed countries, so automation has been performed. Living work is a little infatuated, but therefore the product, i.e. the income from agricultural activity, is large. I'm just going to give an example, one family from where I come from. The Radanovic family, the serious agricultural producers, more than two ravina wagons, they collect as much blackberries, but by mistake there was something else here, it is my wish to illustrate what the relationship is in case that this family did not pay all the commitments and contributions, so it is at 514.000, i.e. at 5144,000, which the tax administration sent the solution that they should pay, 270,000 is interest. You can see it's more than 50%. That's already a serious problem. Sounds a little paradoxical, serious manufacturers, serious people, and they owe. No, it was a mistake. Later, when it was seen in certain documentation, which they of course preserved, and this is again the problem of the tax procedure and the tax administration. Is it possible to seriously develop agriculture, agricultural production, take serious care of our citizens, if in this way we try, provided that they have not settled their obligations in a timely manner, to impose such burdens on them? Of course it's not. This is now, Mr. Minister, the topic on which you can give a little more answers, a little more explanations. I believe at the beginning what this is, when I said how much you talked about the agenda that has 20 points, you probably found out during some period today that you should be the government's authorized representative here, and that's possible and we don't highlight it as some kind of problem. Now I guess you'll be able to choose some topics on purpose and run questions that you should answer, and I guess you'll be able to do that and not just answer and do it, but you have to think a lot more. We also heard here when it comes to amending and supplementing the VAT Act, because certain persons, i.e. children, would not be left out of either one category or another, where this government allegedly runs a proactive policy in terms of population policy, and then we're going to say by the 36th what are we going to do, do you know how complicated the procedures for parents to get back VAT that they invest in equipment and baby food? Couldn't that have been simplified? It seems to me that the original law was passed before you, before this regime, but all of a sudden, you've changed many legal regulations, for some of you were right and you've got citizens' support for it, and for many you're not. On average, in the second draft of the law, you explain that the law is passed because of the harmonisation of the rules with the EU, and you know that it is a pointless job, that the policy led by the government of Ana Brnabic and President Aleksandar Vucic is a dreary policy when it comes to Serbia's entry into the EU. There are more practical reasons why such a crazy idea should give up such a wrong policy as soon as possible. If you have the opportunity to answer some questions, to send messages to the citizens of Serbia, you may, after my address, be my guest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32353	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32354	I appreciate the questions. I'm just going to go back to the beginning of your presentation, where you first said these laws would affect our citizens' lives. We bring all the laws we make to this very purpose, which is to improve the lives of our citizens and make our country more functional. Some laws have suffered minor changes and additions, and this only speaks of the quality of those laws that have been passed. You're saying some of them were brought in by having support somewhere we didn't have support. I want to remind you that this assembly was chosen by the will of the people and that all laws were passed by the majority, i.e. the will of the people. When it comes to the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, which you say I have devoted most of the time, I, of course, intended most of the time to this, because it is a new law. This is something that is new in front of MPs, new in front of citizens, and that should just bring one more important quality that will indirectly improve, I think, and the position of our citizens. Why am I saying that? Because by adopting this law, you create simple integration and the possibility that everything that the government brings, which brings to the government, which brings an autonomous province, which brings local self-government, is connected both horizontally and vertically, that we plan to do everything that we want to do and that we do not do ad hoc, or that some local self-government is doing other than what the government has prescribed or how the autonomous province has prescribed, but that, on the one hand, we do everything coordinated as a team, on the other hand, to follow everything that at the beginning of the year as a plan and second, that we can be measurable, that what is most important, and that is that when we spend budget resources, our citizens know that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing first thing with an analysis of the effects, that we know in advance how we are going to say and what this action plan that we have really brought in real influence, so that if you talk here and the material position of our citizens, we know that when we do so in the year, and when we do it in the first things, and when we do something in the first time, and when we find, we do something, and when we realize that we do something in time, and when we really, and when we get to the first time, and when we do something, and when we do it, we do it, and when we do something, and when we do something, we get to the right, because, because, because, we really, because, because, we really, because, because, because, because, because, because, we really, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, We don't want to work as a government ad hoc, work without any plan. We want to bring planning documents and that is the basis of every management and leadership and large companies, but in this case also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't need to be a secret, everything needs to be planned, it needs to be organized, and it needs to be with some purpose, but that goal must not be just political. That goal must exist and be measurable, that this goal has indicators and that it can, both the National Assembly and our citizens, follow all that we do and all that we have promised to do, of course, with all the effects that follow the performance of all that. This has an indirect connection with all these amendments and amendments to the law, because if we tell you at the beginning of the year that in this year we are going to do some amendments and additions to the law, we have to tell you what our goal is and what effects it will have on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that, of course, in the year that comes before us, since we don't know what it is, let's now talk hypothetically, how long it will take to show the effects, but to be measurable and that when the government stands before the Assembly, it can explain to you why something has worked or has failed and that it has responsibility for what it proposes to you. When you talk about excises, you know what excises are and why excises are brought. So everything we've been doing here, and when it comes to foreign exchange business, when it comes to excise duties, when it comes to tax administration, it's indirectly related to the material position of our citizens, perhaps not directly, but indirectly, because with that effect, we're going to be able to run something somewhere in the background. The government of the Republic of Serbia would disagree with you if it hadn't worked. I think the results exactly this way, as in this first legal provision, in some future period, when we represent you, will just show that the investments that are coming are showing an effect. It's not true that they're just open to foreign investors. We are also well open to domestic investors and our citizens who want to invest and the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is open to all citizens, to all good projects. Our president, and while he was Prime Minister, he mostly talked about us having enough money. And now the budget shows we have a big surplus and we have enough money, but we don't have enough quality projects. We want to start and we want to tell the citizens of Serbia that there is a chance for everyone, that there are projects, that there is money for projects and that citizens can freely apply to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Development Fund precisely with the intention of creating something, to change their material position, and then I think that they will indirectly change the material position of our citizens. When you talk about taxes and contributions, you also know very well why taxes and contributions are at some level and why they exist, which is precisely why the state could work, and on the other hand, if you spend that money transparently, to show the citizens of Serbia how and where that money goes. The government of the Republic of Serbia since 2014, when it has been involved in the fight against the gray economy, is also working to ensure that citizens of Serbia know whenever taxes and contributions are paid where and in which direction they go. The prize game that exists right now tells us that with more tax and contribution we want both directly and indirectly to our citizens to help and show that money goes into the right things. The gray economy is something we have to fight. Unless there's a fight against it, a lot of money will go to some other sphere that won't be under control. Then we come to the fact that we have citizens who can't pay their taxes and contributions in unfair competition and that everything the state asks them to do, that they can also serve. We want to educate our citizens in the media, to know that the state with tax measures is not against them, but for them, that by taxing, we will be able to make that balance, to relieve the economy on the one hand, and to invest on the other. You need to know that only from tax evasion in the gray economy, this country loses a lot of money, that it can finance losses and wages from both police and firemen, that we can build from these money in one year in all municipalities of new homes of health and that we can reconstruct all the hospitals in Serbia, just for one year. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. All of what we do, we do exactly because of it, so we can educate citizens, so we can do it more efficiently, so we can charge for it, and it doesn't go in favor of a third party. It goes in favor of our citizens. And we want to improve their material position. And, well, there's this connection that exists with a better position for our citizens. When it comes to tax reform and tax administration, there are again touch points. The grey economy, the fight against the gray economy on the one hand, depends on the awareness of our citizens, and on the other hand, depends on the very efficiency of the tax administration. The transformation of the tax administration has begun. This is one step. We're probably not gonna stop at this. The time that comes before us will probably require some new transformations, some new measures, but we will certainly not adapt to these measures because of the need because it is a bad law, but because the measures and what we are doing will force us to adapt to some new conditions. We certainly want Serbia's citizens well. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown since 2014 that everything it does is doing in the best possible way and that only after three years we can already reap the fruits of all this. It's not just us. That is what the citizens of Serbia who have given us trust and that trust we must share with them today, share everything we choose as success. That's what we'll do in the future. All these measures, believe me, will give effect, and we'll talk about it in some next assembly, when we touch this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32355	The word has the People's Messenger Sreto Peric, by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32356	Mr. Minister, the best thing to do is to pay as a tax if it's brought to an optimal extent. Don't tell me - the government since 2014. Say, "Government since 2012. That's exactly how much SNS is in power. So you're six years old. This 64% profit commitment isn't since yesterday, you didn't find it in 2012, so we have an understanding. It's been going on for six years. I'm not sure that you with 64% will be more successful at fighting the gray economy, and we support the fight against the gray economy, against corruption, against crime. Every government, every government will have the support of the SRS when it comes to it. But 64% is not something that doesn't interfere with people trying to hold undeclared labour. You know that. And there seems to be the most effective struggle through the inspector. And then you're gonna say we don't have enough, which is true. We can't provide an inspector for every employer. This is a long time ago, the clock rang to cut. This had to be done by now. I don't know where it's burned, what's burning? We got a few draft laws on April 5th. And now they will say, well, there was plenty of time. Well, it was enough time, it's not a problem, but let's see a little bit of what they say and the ones these laws apply to. When you say that this bill on the planning system directly applies to citizens, come on, Mr. Minister, something that applies in a direct way. People are eager to see the effects tomorrow. Six years later, you had to have a lot more solutions that were visible, not in a year, not in two or I don't know how many years, but right after the law was passed. That's what you had to do and secure. You're running an analysis. I'm going to deny you now, don't do it, here's the area of justice is not the subject you understand best. When the Department of Justice, when the government was considering seeing if the court network was optimal, was it supposed to be?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32357	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32358	Speaking of dates, in 2012, the SNS came to power in July. That was half a year ago, half of the budget. To say, we had to enter in 2013, and you know for yourself that when a change of government is done, you don't make immediate cuts, but you go into an analysis of what should be done and you can't do in the current year, spending your budget, doing any kind of reform that can be crucial or tectonic, and it's in favour of changing society and having one completely different vision and access to everything that we do. Therefore, 2014 is the year when Alexander Vukic comes to the head of the government. With bold measures then, although in this same congregation, it may not have been liked by some who were proposed, it was to change something, not just a look at one thing, to realize that we have to be different to everything and be much more responsible, but the fact that we will have to bring many things that will not be very popular and that we will not go to the benefit of being popular when it comes to politics. Alexander Vukic made those decisions and three years later we have a surplus. When you talk about taxes and contributions, you know that there have been attempts at an earlier period, when we have had some quasi-economicists who have tried in some way to court by lowering taxes and contributions, that we have failed to reduce the grey economy, it has already been stronger. I think some things that follow tax cuts and contributions must be followed by some other changes and some other events that have to happen. that we have a more responsible tax policy, that we have better control and, on the other hand, what matters most is that it is neutral for the budget. We all live from not being in debt, but from taxes and contributions, we can finance, not only the financing of the state, but new investments and new investments. It's these measures, which are now done and all the results that are now showing, that there's a surplus, that what we've been doing then has the results and pumping these finances that, on the one hand, in the plus, we need it to run one point and we have even greater income. Then we can talk about reducing the burden and making one balance in it, see how much we can go down when it comes to taxes and contributions, but carefully follow what's going on on the other side. We must never again be irresponsible as some authorities were before 2012 and lead the country to threaten us with bankruptcy, to live from being in charge and not taking care of the other side at all, and that is the responsibility of the state and the income that the state should have. In the end, we don't have another state. Unless we're responsible for this country, no one else will love her from ourselves anymore. So I believe you believe in everything we do. Thank you for supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against the grey economy, as you said, because the fight against the gray economy is an effective fight. In this fight, this efficiency will just be better for all citizens of Serbia, which is the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32359	Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32360	Mr. Minister, you've misunderstood me twice. There's someone here who has citizens' support. When we spoke, I didn't mean that support for the citizens. I was referring to the support of the regulations adopted by this congregation majority, on the one hand. On the other hand, don't give us any support for the government of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic, no speech. We support what is good for the citizens of Serbia, whoever it comes from, do not now support the government of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic, just now. There's nothing good here. You forgot, Mr. Minister, as soon as the government of Aleksandra Vukic arrived, VAT was immediately increased to a lower and higher tariff rate. It's not in the service of the citizens, it's not better for the citizens. I guess it's better if they're freed. We have nothing against foreign investors, and that's the wrong understanding, but conditions are such that few in Serbia can meet it. You know exactly who can do it. This Nis airport situation, and it's talking about something, like Nis is outside Serbia, so he owed some foreign state there, so he had to take some measures from here. Obviously, it's not like you're not talking, or doing one thing, and you're talking the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32361	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32362	The vote is best spoken of by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they show how many citizens of Serbia believe what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. You said well that Alexander Vucic, while he was Prime Minister, and Ana Brnabic successfully set out to fight the grey economy and that you support, when it comes to the gray economy and the fight against the gray economy, and that fight shows one of its efficiency precisely because we have fewer unemployed, because the level of the grey economy is smaller than it was, and at the level of some governments fighting earlier in eight, nine years to reduce the rate of the grey economy, as far as this government has succeeded in three years. I think we're going to move on even more efficiently, even better, and the results will be even better and more quality when it comes to the standard of living of our citizens. Replaying the fight against the gray economy right now is the improvement of our citizens' lives. Secondly, when you say the VAT increase was immediately after coming to power, so what's happening today is that these heavy measures we've taken, firstly, on the one hand, have an understanding of the citizens, which they have shown in the elections, and the second shows the results now that we know that inflation is at the lowest level, that our course is stable, at the level of 2012. So he's talking about these measures that we've done, and including that VAT increase, they had a basis, which doesn't mean that in some future period it won't be any different. This government will not bring populist measures to court anyone, but will bring about measures that will be in the interest of improving the lives of our citizens and so will be. That's what he drew, while he was Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, which was continued by the government of Ana Brnabic, and we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32363	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32364	Dear Mr Vice President, dear fellow Members of the People, Mr Minister, we are witnessing that the great efforts that have been made in the past to raise the full economy have long begun to produce results, and this is reflected in the increasingly dynamic growth of the financial market and economy in general. It is therefore necessary to constantly monitor the situation and fill legal gaps in this area. The amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act are a key segment of this package of laws which are further liberalising our market and business rules, and so is our commitment to the EU accession process. Significant changes are provided for in Article 18, where adding several new positions, following the entry into force of the law, will allow domestic and foreign citizens to be in charge of foreign financial institutions established in EU countries. At the same time, short-term loans from domestic entities will also be allowed to be granted to foreign borrowers from the EU. This right is further extended to guarantee operations, but the change in Article 23 has been authorised by the NBS to prescribe certain restrictions in such cases if the need is indicated. It is a significant addition in Article 32, which stipulates that payment abroad is allowed in cases of donations for humanitarian purposes, which is very important, because we all remember the situation of four years ago when legal difficulties arised in the treatment of humanitarian aid payments for flooded areas in the Kolubara Basin. Article 34 provides for a supplement allowing foreign exchange card payments and for cases of purchase of software and digital products via the Internet. Finally, Article 32 proposed that the National Bank of Serbia be empowered in the future to issue and confiscate powers for the work of exchange offices. The whole article has been redefined and the conditions for doing these jobs have been strengthened, as the unjudgment of the legal person who is performing these tasks will also be sought in the future and the remaining conditions are much more precisely defined. Several minor amendments to the factoring law are primarily related to our interstate obligations, primarily regarding the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. It refers to potential founders and owners of companies engaged in this activity. They will be required that, when applying for the authorisation to perform the factoring work, in addition to the documentation already prescribed, they also provide assurances that they are not convicted by a judicial verdict for a criminal offence, and that they are not subject to criminal proceedings. Given that this is a very specific and complex private activity, which concerns the purchase of existing or future claims of this change, certainly makes sense, since such actions require the level of security in work and business and where it is easier to cover up potential machinations, certainly should not be dealt with by those who are convicted of commercial offences. Almost identical additions concerning the prohibitions of convicted legal or natural persons to be founders or owners of the agencies involved in the review contain the proposed draft law supplementing the Law on Audit and the draft law supplementing the Accounting Act. Dear MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group is of the opinion that these proposed laws certainly contribute to a better business environment in Serbia, as on the one hand they facilitate the flow of money with abroad, which will certainly act in a stimulating manner to further attract foreign investors. On the other hand, certain control mechanisms are being introduced that will seek to prevent and reduce the potential execution of criminal offences in this area. That's why in the voting day, we're going to support a set of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32365	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. He's not there. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32366	Dear colleagues and fellow ministers, we have a set of laws dealing with important matters ahead of us. Somehow, the most important thing to me is the Law on Games on Happiness, or the changes that we make in a member. It is very important to say that today, from the point of view of modern psychiatry, gambling is a really difficult disease of addiction that is difficult to treat, which takes the epidemic character and often very often returns, we say professionally relapsing. We, unfortunately, change only one member, or two members of this law, and introduce something that is good. Introduce that gambling owners, bookies and other similar gambling games are not allowed to be convicted of any matter. As a parliamentary group, we have indeed had many amendments, but by respecting the procedure that this Parliament brings to the Rules of Procedure, we have been prevented from submitting them, and we have decided to prepare very quickly, and a whole new proposal for a whole new law on gambling is being prepared. This law does have a lot of disadvantages, and I think the biggest thing is that local self-government, or cities where these casinos and open have no authority in the process, or know any document in the process of opening the casino. On the other hand, control is absolutely done by the IRS. So the mayors, cities and local self-government absolutely don't decide and absolutely don't control what happens to the cube, or these gambling facilities in their city. It is symptomatic that this is very misused by the opposition, especially in Novi Pazar, who is day and night saying that the mayor or local self-government, and from holy places, are guilty and open up and promoters of such behaviour, which is absolutely false and spreading panic and what the public prosecutor might react to. 'Cause I'm sorry if anyone would accuse Mayor Nis of being a promoter of something that's immoral, which is bad, and then people in Nis would feel like they're panicking. This is absolutely one irresponsible attitude towards politics and all citizens of this country. This is one political option in Novi Pazar, which is very often hidden behind religion and religion. What would they change for me? We just heard some political flossules -- total bans. I am both professionally and personally against gambling, but, gentlemen, experience, history has shown that this is not the best way to control it. If you push it down to the ground floor, it's going to rise. The state won't have any profit from that. They'll have profit criminals, and that's just pulsism. I'd put it all out myself. It's my religious point of view, but experience has shown that it's better to control it. Absolute control versus ban. What else can be said and what else can be changed? We heard, they are calling for this distance prescribed by this current law – 200 meters from educational institutions. He means basics and high school. Gentlemen, this has been misused several times in Novi Pazar, and the finance minister replied to me that there were even counterfeitings in these documents, because it is a matter of measuring that distance by a certain licensed geodete, which is confirmed by the local cadastre. The people measured it with a simple pantyhose. Anyway, the farthest route was made, over 200 meters. We wanted to suggest that it be two thousand meters by airline or more. We need to find a model to root it out of the city centers, our significant ones, that become tourist metropolis. We wanted to expand it, not only to be primary and secondary schools, but also to be high-school institutions, because you know they're vurniable and older minors. It means people 18 to 21 are hit. We wanted that to apply to historical cultural monuments. Well, I guess we won't have a casino in front of the Altun-Alem mosque or in front of the Sopocans. And we need to amend this law, but this law must be consulted in a very correct way with experts from the profession in order to get an optimum. What can be said and what else can be suggested here? It is essential that young people be preserved and this law has a special item. I think we need to be more serious about this proposal, which we're going to bring, to keep track of. It must never happen that people under 18 have access to places like this. The record that exists in some foreign countries is completely different. People have to be photographed, and profiled, and they make a practical file. He's trying in every way to demote young people and any citizen to practically deal with these jobs. In this regard, a new law should be proposed very quickly, which will deal with this topic seriously and professionally, and I think we will get the support of most MPs who really care about all the citizens of this country. I'm saying, we're going to vote for this change, since the fact that the people who are punishable for organising this is one step, but I want to say that there is a lot of inadequacy and that we, as a political option, probably our coalition partners really want to cut down and do this country's dice. We're going to do it through absolute control, we're going to do it through the monitoring and motivation of young people to deal with sports and health activities, better quality school, and this government does it in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32367	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go. Sign up for second unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32368	This electronics, full-scale digitization, works and works. There's a lot of things here that are unclear. First of all, this agenda shows that these are so-called. the extorted agenda points. These agenda points are put on the insistence of the Anti-Terrorism and Money Laundering Agency. It is an international association that has made it clear that Serbia is on the so-called. Blacklist. It's been hiding from the public for a long time, time-sighted time. But apparently, that Europe, too, lost patience with this government, or government in Serbia, so it had to force the law system to regulate that fight, not to leave it to individuals. There is another uncertainty, which is that when the government proposes certain laws, it does not take into account the currentity of these laws, so we have one point concerning the plan system in the Republic of Serbia. Imagine how current this is, it came into force in 2021. We are in 2018, but let's also understand that we fit into these European frameworks that one part is one of the obligations of this whole fight against terrorism and money laundering. To be one system where the functioning of all levels of government will be united, from a spatial plan, from financial plans, from everything where there will be a unique position, where the clear government will have, which we think is very important, that it will have insight into everything that is happening in Serbia's territory. But there is one danger not to introduce the so-called. We have now seen on the latest case where the president of the state speaks clearly, expressing his view of how the government will behave in the future, specifically towards the citizens of Nis, that as he says, he will no longer give money to the citizens of Nis, if they continue to decide to manage the airport. No matter how logical or legal the possibility of doing so, but according to that people's horse, where the boss tells you to, the people of Nis will have to think well about how they will live in the future, because until this law comes into force in 2021, as it is said exactly on January 1, 2021, the government will go to parliament with a concrete proposal of this law, and we have testified that the same government, which provides that in 2021, will be bound, has been here for a long time not to come up with a final account, i.e. with a review of the funds spent for the previous period. This is not only legal, but also the constitutional obligation of the government, and who can now believe that in 2021 it will be different from this constitutional, or legal obligation that the government has? As for the other draft laws, it is a little worrying that during the period when agricultural and spring work is under way, or more precisely now it can be said about the completion of these agricultural works, the government comes out with a proposal to reduce excise duties, to liquid gas, to coffee and to other products. Was it not logical and completely understandable for the government to come out with a proposal to cut the excise duty and thus directly affect the reduction in diesel fuel prices that are needed by farmers who are now at the moment bringing to an end these agricultural works, but are paying the same fuel at the price paid by those who use passenger cars? You're a little out of bounds, obviously, not with life, but with reality in life. You propose to reduce the excise duty on liquid gas, explaining that all those who use this liquid gas as basic raw materials or use it as fuel. This reminds us of the preparation or better to tell the forcing of the situation that the long-declared liquid gas from America, when imported, is to be released from excise duty. The Serbian radicals reminds us of that. Maybe we're ominous birds, maybe we're wrong, and maybe on the other hand, we're announcing something before it's even made public. When we said that crime, money laundering cannot be prevented by individuals from certain functions and at a certain level of government swearing to go into a uncompromising fight against crime, it must be done by making everyone ready and benefiting from legal opportunities to prevent and counter-lawful actions. We have a situation to do mass-washing in Serbia, so-called The dirty money that's mostly created by selling and pre-saleing narcotics. Look at all the gentlemen of Zlatibor. Every resident of Zlatibor, the Užička district will tell you honestly what this is about. It's not just about wild construction, it's about one general appearance, where money made by smuggling, drug trafficking, turns into real estate. It's being washed that way, and it's coming back to the most part, as we're being referred to in Montenegro. This minister, it's not what you'd say, the current state, if I understand that it's a condition. This is something that lasts. It remains on Zlatibor and in all urban areas, mostly in Belgrade and major cities in construction operations, mass or most of them being washed by the so-called. dirty money and you think Europe doesn't see it, that Europe will let it go forever. It is only an excuse or a cape under which they warn Serbia. As for the financing of terrorism, I guess that's where we're all out of our minds. The world's largest terrorist funder is America, behind which the CIA stands, and then nothing less contributes to that and Western European countries. You see now there's a big affair in France about the money Gaddafi gave to the former French president, and we here listen to stories that convince us that individuals, that certain ministers, ministries, will enter into a uncompromising fight against crime. Everyone knows, not to mention the sparrows on the branch, that it's a very close relationship, there's almost no difference between individual ministers and ministries and those dealing with crime. Not only do they write the tabloid newspapers, but aside from that, we're witnesses, we live in Serbia where everything is known. In a broader sense, Serbia is like one small increase in the baroque in some world levels, you know. You know exactly who's in the resorts with. Here, you have one case, just to remind you, you remember the affair that followed governor NBS during his stay at one of the counseling or summits in Budva, it was announced to the public that an unknown person had hacked into the governor's room, that it was intended to be life-threatening, by taking her medications that she used to solve problems with her heart. When it was officially announced, the Montenegrin intelligence service reacted quickly and said it had presented all the information related to the case and that the governor was personally familiar with the Serbian government. Then it simply broke off with any charges, not just charges, but any information on the subject. It's very important, it's a significant function, let's see who had that interest. How is it that one of the most secure facilities in all of Europe, and this is the hotel where all the guests were housed, how does an unknown face enter a room? But when the Montenegrin intelligence service offered additional information, it was silent. What's behind the additional information, is it some financial transaction we haven't met about, we should be guessing? Now we Serbian radicals could say what we know from private sources, that there was also a certain amount of money. So the logical question is why would such a high-ranking official be asking so many hundreds of thousands of euros? What was her intention? Maybe I'm carrying this a little bit emotionally, because I know, Minister, that you know a person and that you care, as I do, to protect its integrity, so there's nothing that might have any idea that it's political rematch or anything. But perhaps the Montenegrin intelligence department had in mind that it was the person who had previously stolen something that did not belong to it. You know what they say in the people - once a thief, always a thief, doesn't matter what he steals. How can we believe that those who stole intellectual property will fight crime and anti-terrorism and money laundering, those who completed any of the schools in Greece, and later came, turned it into a college degree? How? Every one of those criminals or most of them know about it. Of course they'll be the subject of blackmail, that they won't be able to stand up to it. The bottom line is the next one, and this Europe you're after has obviously lost trust and gone into a tough fight. That this is mostly true, and here's one item of the agenda that you suggested, and these are these loans that she was taking "Srbigas". Imagine, in all these banks, not to go into whether private capital or not, it doesn't matter now, whether it's the AIK Bank, headed by Miki Kostic, so the seat has changed and now because of the change of seat from Nis is transferred to Belgrade, the legislative correction must be implemented. But you have a bank with Malta where credit is raised for "Srbigas", and Malta is recognized as an offshore destination where money is laundered, so we need to find out through these technical changes to do so. So what's that leading to? You have one suggestion about VAT vomit. The VAT returns to parents whose children were born until June 31st, I think it is, at the conclusion of June 31st or June 30th, irrelevant, about that and that's where they come back, later on they pay off. The essence of this VAT is not only that, but all those importing goods across the free zone are freed from VAT payments, with the reason that they will use domestic producers to make production, and then to export them abroad. We are literally in all of this as a colony brought into a situation to underestimate ourselves, ourselves. Now the logical question is asked – who can believe a story like this? Anyone who understands the economy and who sees the state of the economy has long since become clear that domestic economies and domestic production are no longer available, in the true sense of words. What was, in the meantime, began to escalate or almost disappeared. You then explain that you will simply cover this well-meaning which refers to the refunding of funds in the name of VAT with those who import, which are mostly foreigners, so we create, ministers, a paradise for importers, so here only the importers profit. This is where the importer, who cares, is free of all duties, has no obligation, is kept the value he gets by selling the goods by being a stable dinar. Then we listen countless times to infinity the same story – ever since we, i.e. You, who came to power, Serbia went through rebirth, through a bright future and light at the end of the tunnel, and in fact the debt totaled Serbia is increasing. What you're talking about is not convincing and it's not justified that your policy has reduced and has begun to reduce debt. The debt is mostly reduced because there has been a change of interest on the world market and there has been a change in the rate of dollars that Serbia is bound to. They're one of the main arguments. What do you think the interest is going to stay this low? He will not, gentlemen, change, and then Serbia will enter into true debt slavery.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32369	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32370	Thank you, MP, but in some things I simply cannot agree with you. First, when you talk about Malta, you talk about the country of the European Union. It is not some offshore destination that is so tempting for some money laundering, we are talking about a European Union country where there is a very clear regulation how and how all types of transactions are controlled. You obviously mixed her up with some other country when you were talking about Malta. When you talk about the results of this government, you can bring out a series of false things, but one thing you can't take, and that's true, and that's what's visible. It's to see that unemployment fell from 26 to 12%, that inflation at 1-1.5%, that the rate is stable, that debt reduction, you say, fell by a rate of 10 percentage points. I don't see that many interest rates have moved or the world's exchange rate, so we have a 10 percent shift. It speaks only of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very careful with its measures and results and what we are picking up as a result of all of this is very well deployed, both in investment and in debt reduction. When it comes to the law you're talking about, it's been passed, maybe we're late, it's a fact and a Chinese proverb says that maybe it was the right time for it ten years ago to come, but the next one is today. This government is responsible and wants this matter to be regulated legally and that, in some way, as I told you, it plans to solve certain things and to be connected according to horizontal and vertical, that from local self-government to government itself we all work together towards the same goal, that we have the same policy, that we have the same goal, and that this goal is measurable and that what is most important, that the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly, which will be pictured both the plans and the realisation, has insight into what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. I see you've got a series of flat-rate accusations about doing some dirty money laundering in Serbia. I know that the Republic of Serbia's MUP is doing a very effective fight against money laundering and against all kinds of abuse and criminal activities. You, if you have any concrete evidence, your duty and duty as any citizen is to report it specifically to the authorities, because otherwise you become an accomplice to all of this. I deeply believe that if you have and if you are now in possession of the same, you will certainly deliver the same to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, when we talk about the person we both know, I get the impression from your exposure that there's a kind of jealousy for that person, because that person, with her work at the head of that institution, has managed to transform that institution into an institution that has managed to create the largest foreign reserve, to preserve them, to protect them, and to have the most stable course in the last 30, 40 years. It's the success of that person and every jealousy of that person is a reflection of what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32371	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32372	First of all, I see that you left behind, I am not in any emotional relationship with any person who is in the government, nor was I going to be, I am talking about the function because I have a report signed by Ana Brnabic, as Prime Minister of the National Assembly, an annual report on the truthfulness of implementation in order to combat irregularities and fraud in dealing with EU financial resources. It's something that's present in the government, I don't know if you were at that government's session when this document was adopted by the Minister. I speak on the basis of arguments. By replacing the thesis you want the public, in this case, to draw attention to the other side, that anyone who knows about these malfeasances is obliged to report, let it go. This is too serious, if it wasn't serious, this agency wouldn't have warned you. Serbia is on the list with Yemen, on the list with Syria, when it comes to terrorism, and it's not exactly naive ministers, that we're up here now. As far as these economic parameters are concerned, you're not a very good minister, I know you have a mission and it's a good thing you're defending your government, but you're not exactly in the matter, that's where the finance minister should come. It'll show up in the end, isn't it impossible to pay back, and that debt is much bigger than when they were so-called. The ex-exes you're insinuating, and among them are your current coalition partners. They had 15 billion total debt, and now it's 24 billion, so we're bidding whether it's 24 or 23. How is it that when you were raising cheap loans, how did you fail to reduce those debts more drastically, or significantly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32373	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32374	My dear MP, you must know that when you talk about debt, it is not only the height of debt but also its participation in the gross domestic product and that you can be in debt if you can repay and service those debts. A smile and it says that I'm right and there's no reason to be nervous at all, any. When you say, I defend my government, so I'm a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we all have a common policy, which is that we work for the benefit of our country, in the right place and our citizens. It is the quality of this government, when you say you have an annual report from the Prime Minister and that is the fundamental difference between this government and any of the past, which we are not hiding and telling the citizens transparently about everything, what we are facing and how we want to get out of all of this. This government has not done any of this, all it is, is a relapse of some past, some of the bad measures and some of the decisions some governments have made, which must sooner or later reflect on the state and surface somewhere, to clean up and see Serbian citizens exist. We didn't want to hide it. Some governments used to know things like that, so they didn't talk about it. This government doesn't want to work like that. This government was elected by Serbian citizens with its own will and has both the obligation and the right to report to its citizens. Don't even take evil for us when we talk about it and when we talk about what reflected it, or conditioned that we face these problems today, but we're not the ones who complain and talk about having a problem and that we don't know what we're going to do. We are talking about that when the problem comes up and when we see it, we suggest how and in what way we come out of it, because to tell you the problem is not just the problem of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that problem is all of us. The problem reflects on all citizens of Serbia no matter what political party they belong to. That's how we're going to continue with that policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32375	Thank you, Minister. The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32376	Obviously there's no reason to spread the story anymore. It is, however, the following, the essence of all these objections that we Serbian radicals make is that these proposals for the laws that are now on the agenda are being extorted. As for the previous, previous authorities, to be precise, your political option that you belong to has come to power for good because they promised Serbian citizens that they would uncompromisingly fight every type of crime and that there would be zero tolerance. It is clear that it has contributed to the SNS that I assume you belong to, to power. What happened? It happened exactly what they had warned before, and later alarmed that weapons were being sold, that weapons were being traded, whether the previous-exposed or previous hair was not so important now, but it is significant though the previous one was – the previous one where the minister of military was known to you, and you were then the minister of military, whether something had been done. Have any of them been processed? Is there any case that any representative of the former government has been processed, except for what you have announced on the big bells, Miskovic, Kosmajca and others. Don't think he's not happy with Serbia. It is good for Serbia to find them behind bars, but only on the basis of legality, not on the basis of will and will. Here, you tell me what you did when it comes to suspected arms trafficking within the Serbian Army of the previous government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32377	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32378	I must tell you when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, when it comes to the Serbian Army, I am responsible for saying that there has been no smuggling or arms trafficking, which has been illegal, everything has been done in accordance with the law and I must tell you that I am proud of the fact that and in what way the system and control of arms trafficking in Serbia has been arranged. No one in the world has ever said for a moment that Serbia is involved in any arms trade that is illegal. The very complicated procedures that the Republic of Serbia has are an example even for some other countries, and we praise that. I don't think it's nice to talk at all about our Serbian army that never, but never, I tell you, has ever traded in an illegal way, never, not that the Serbian Army had any indication at any time, that it existed, believe me, it would have been processed. The military security agency is doing its job very responsibly. Everything that's done, when it comes to arms trafficking, is under a big bang. For us, the reputation of our country is very important and perhaps in the first place. We have never since 2012, whenever we could and whenever there was any kind of arms trade, it was also controlled. But we weren't just standing on what's been going on since 2012, but before 2012. So, when it comes to the Serbian Army, I say responsibly -- there was no illegal arms trade. When it comes to power and when you say we promised to fight crime, or zero tolerance, it's true. We are still standing on that fact and that is our main task. And the confirmation that citizens believe us is that we have won all the elections, which means that citizens believe exactly what we are doing, that this struggle shows its efficiency and that we are increasingly better from election to election, and that the citizens of Serbia increasingly trust the Serbian Progressive Party in that fight and see a perspective with the Serbian Progressive Party in the future that we will all be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32379	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32380	The Serbian Progressive Party is mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, so here is the opportunity for a few of the things mentioned today not to remain unsaid. First, you state claims that the state of Serbia, at a time when the elderly Serbian Progressive Party, is on a blacklist of a particular organisation. He's referring specifically to the organization to control and prevent money laundering. This is mentioned in this accompanying material. So, first of all, that claim itself is false. There is no blacklist with the Republic of Serbia. And that's explained to our public well. Now I want to accept that someone had no evil intentions, but that he simply did not understand what he had taken to comment. So, there is no blacklist of the organisation on which the Republic of Serbia is located. The Republic of Serbia is in the monitoring regime or what it should mean when translated – careful observation. Just because it's not true first, it's not true or the claim that something has been hidden from the public for a long time. It's so said today. Literally, the moment that FAT was on the site, it was announced that monitoring was being carried out, that the time had arrived and an appropriate explanation. The explanation is: "Serbia has already adopted 35 of the 40 recommendations made earlier by the organisation." When it was said whether or not to formally adopt this monitoring status, and the European Commission mentioned today was against it, because it believes that in Serbia a lot of good was done in the period when SNS, precisely in the area of fighting all these dangerous things, not only the European Commission, but many European countries were also seeing it. China had the same attitude. The Russian Federation had the same attitude. A single country insisted that Serbia be on the watch list, not on any blacklist. That speaks enough of what's true, what's the actual state of it. And yes, these laws that we adopt at this session will be among those efforts to formally satisfy, as announced by the government by the end of the year, all those things that someone insists on. When Serbia is not even on the watch list, it will remain only a question of whether the tabloids are contained in addition to being interesting, something that is difficult to answer to. I wouldn't say it's hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32381	Thank you, colleague Orlic. We're finishing up a circle of replicas. (Milorad Mircic: Just give me a word to the Eagle to say something, just a minute to ask. You have no real right, the correct answers here, please, I can't really, three times you've had the chance. Everyone's got, you've got answers, so let's move on. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32382	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, the SPS Group will support the proposed laws on the agenda today. It will support this set of financial laws, support the validation of international contracts, guarantee, financial contracts and support the election of members of the Council and the Securities Commission. So, in voting day, we'll give our vote to these proposed changes and additions. My colleagues will also say a few words about these laws. I will remain on only two issues very briefly, which are at first sight, when you look at the amount of changes to the law, small, therefore small changes, but great importance, great message and great vision for this people. First, when it comes to the draft law amending the VAT Act, I will, in addition to this issue relating to the tax exemption of those working in the free zone, remain on one issue which is mentioned here in one word only, and it means a lot, and that is the change of the VAT law when it comes to vomiting VAT for babies. Namely, the current Financial Support Act with children, a significant law that supported and supported the government's policy towards the family, according to families with children, the current Financial Support Act meant that the parental allowance for the first child was paid once for 39,503 dinars, for the second, third and fourth children in 24 equal monthly wars and for the second child of 154,472 dinars, for the third 278,037 and for the fourth child of 37,713 dinars, because it was envisaged that the parents would return VAT for food and baby equipment. The law ceases to apply, and on July 1st, a new Law on the financial support of families with children, which we as the SPS have also strongly supported, because it shows the government's commitment to expand continuously in this area, increases the exercise of rights in this area, and it is a very important area with which the government has been affected lately, which is the area of population policy. The new law, which enters into force on July 1st, implies the following – for the first child, the parental allowance is 100,000 dinars, not more than 39,000 dinars, but 100,000 dinars, and with this parental supplement, the payment of the pausals amounting to 5,000 dinars for each child born, for the purchase of baby equipment. So instead of an earlier increase in VAT on baby equipment, it's something else now. When it comes to the second, third and fourth children, it remains the same, not counting these latest measures adopted by the Council for the Popular Policy of the Government, which is that for the first child besides 100,000 dinars of one-off aid, for the second child 10,000 dinars a month for the third child of 12,000 dinars 10 years and a fourth child of 18,000 dinars 10 years from the birth of the child. These changes, which are very good, which take effect from July 1st, are not just a parental supplement, because I would like to remind you of a very important change in terms of the change in the right to adopt a maternity or parental allowance, because so far only women employed, employed by the labor contract, have that right. It is now extended to members, to women who are self-employed, as well as to those engaged in a contract of work, or to contracts of temporary or occasional business. What came up here as a problem that this law doesn't solve? So far, the law predicted that by June 30th, a VAT refund for baby equipment for baby supplies is being made. What can happen? As of July 1st, a cochlean has been introduced instead of VAT. It may occur that children born by June 30th, and parents were not in a position to fulfil their right, to exercise the right to return to VAT, are in some way in an unequal position. Now, the very essence of the change in this law is that it says not until June 30th, but for all children born until June 30th, which means that all children will have the opportunity to exercise one of these rights in full capacity. I wanted to bring this up with one piece of support and praise to the government, when it comes to this area, the measures being taken, for the simple reason that it would not go unnoticed, because, as I would say, it's a small correction. What I want to say is about these four laws, the amendments to the Accounting, Audit, factoring and gambling laws. Basically, they have one basic idea and one goal, which is that for those societies that deal with accounting, audit, factoring, gambling, founders and owners they cannot be those who are criminally convicted and, of course, individuals who cannot deal with this business, which I find very important, because it is important that this country not only fulfils the obligations towards Europe when it comes to fighting money laundering and terrorism, but also because of its own need to preserve, as I would say, the financial system of abuse, from money laundering and so on, and these areas are very susceptible to it. Therefore, it will apply to all legal persons, all entrepreneurs and who are registered and who will be registered. I consider this a very important change in the fight against the gray economy on the one hand. On the other hand, the struggle not to allow money laundering in Serbia. My colleagues will talk about these other laws. I've had so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32383	Thank you, fellow Petronievich. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32384	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will pay the most attention to the Foreign Affairs Act and I will look at it from several aspects. First of all, I would like to stress the importance that this bill provides for the free movement of capital in the part relating to portfolios of investments and financial loans and loans with a maturity of less than a year. First, this law will ensure that citizens of Serbia, i.e. natural persons and branches of foreign legal entities, can borrow short-term from creditors who are not a citizen of our country, who are established or resident in one of the EU member states. However, the conditions under which these financial processes are being implemented are in line with the rules laid down by the National Bank of Serbia. This means that these jobs can also be limited if it is estimated to safeguard the public interest in this way, i.e. financial stability. Economic opportunities at the world level suggest that we need to adapt to a dynamic business environment daily. For example, I will only say that in the second half of the last century, exports of goods have increased 30 times, and the growth of direct investment abroad has increased as much as 50 times compared to the beginning. There is no country that can ignore developmental tendencies, especially to protect and isolate them. It is therefore important to move forward with international legal norms and thus create a more favourable business environment. Law-making we prescribe rules of play, and a successful business, hence economic development, does not exist without a reliable and efficient legal system. It is therefore important that our legal regulations ensure legal certainty so that we have a quality business climate. I hope that the set of these laws will have positive effects that will result in new investments. Here I think of companies that will activate the new business and introduce a new market actor, which would allow for an increase in employment. Secondly, the draft law on foreign trade will bring our legislation into line with international standards in the field of preventing and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing. The Organisation for the Control and Prevention of Money Laundering has located the hotspots in this area and therefore it is necessary to make adjustments. In this context, monitoring and ban criminally convicted legal entities should be strengthened to be founders and owners of companies engaged in trading operations. Addressing these problems is also a matter of amending the Bill on Accounting, the Law on Audit, the Factoring Act. By passing these laws, we create a legal framework in which there is less and less room for corrupt activities. In this way, we will set economic foundations for the development of sound competition, and only in this way can the domestic economic system fail new values and at the same time be competitive with developed economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32385	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32386	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the bill on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia. Public policies are the direction of action at all levels of government – the Republic of Serbia, the AP and units of local self-government, all in order to achieve economic and social goals that are in the best interest of society in general. Some of the examples are education, health care, defense and so on. Public policies usually establish the direction of action, regulatory measures, funding priorities related to specific areas or problems, as well as responsibility for their implementation. The mission of public policy is a quality public policy, which best leads to the development of society and economy, and its vision is a good system of creating and managing public policies based on facts and awareness of decision-makers on the values of knowledge and analysis of problem solving. The reason for the adoption of this law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent, coordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government, covering all aspects of social, economic and development policy, with optimal use of budget resources, ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as effective implementation of EU accession. Non-connection of the public policy planning process and the making of rules of single processes results in ineffectiveness of the planning system and the regulatory framework for the development of society. On the contrary, an efficient planning system, i.e. effective implementation of public policies, as well as an analysis of the effects contributes to a more quality society and the economy of a country. The proposal for this law took care not to endanger the original and the Constitution of the guaranteed jurisdiction of the local authorities. This proposal also explicitly introduces the obligation to monitor and evaluate adopted public policies and regulations in order to see and monitor the effects of them. This obligation is not prescribed by any other legal solution, and this law does so. In other words, an efficient planning system and a favourable regulatory framework for the development of society are provided. The relevant regulations do not allow participants of the planning system to determine with certainty when they adopt a strategy, and when the programme, or what all these documents of public policies and action plans should contain. Due to the absence of this obligation, the accumulation of inefficient, i.e. excessive and harmful regulation, which burdens business operators and the lives of citizens. The proposal for this law overcomes this problem. Another of the many positive effects of this law is that the establishment of a single information system, which will introduce public policy documents, medium-term plans and implementation reports, will ensure effective and consistent planning at all levels and will include precise measures to implement public policies. All these are mentioned only some of the positive measures and benefits that this bill adopts. This draft law also regulates the obligation to carry out consultations when drawing up public policies and regulations. In practice, it is noticeable that it is not clear what the purpose of the consultation is, and what is the purpose of the public debate, so this law clearly defines their essence and prescribes implementation obligations. The aim of reforming the plan system in the Republic of Serbia is to establish a coherent system for effective planning and public policy management at all levels of the system of government. The best solution to achieve this goal is to adopt a systematic law on the planning system, which will provide a framework and guidelines for planning and creating, to implement and monitor public policy and regulation effects. Finally, what is important to me as a socialist and a member of the political party, which is socially responsible, is the fact that by adopting this law, citizens will feel the effects of a more efficient and effective implementation of social and economic policies, which will result in improving the quality of public services, living standards and meeting the needs of citizens. In voting day, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote for this and a set of other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32387	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32388	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and respected citizens, immediately to say my colleagues have said that the Socialist Party in voting day will support a set of financial laws and the Law on Audition. I will look back today on the bill of amendments and additions to the law on gambling. This law strengthens the responsibility for making games of chance. According to these amendments, the editors, even the founders, must not be legal persons who are legally convicted of criminal acts against the rights of the economy, property, judiciary, money laundering, terrorist financing, public order and peace, legal traffic and official duty. To be honest, it was time for this aspect to be accounted for, too, because practice says that editors and founders are often legally and legally irresponsible. On this occasion, I would also refer to the importance and role of gambling, on the one hand to the state and the budget, and on the other hand to the users of gambling. The aim of the organisation and distribution of gambling funds, according to the law, is to promote the entertainment of participants, to achieve profits in money, things, services or rights and the achievement of funds that are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Part of the budget of the Republic of Serbia's budget of 40% is used to finance the Red Cross of Serbia, an organisation of persons with disabilities and other associations aimed at improving the socio-economic and social situation of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, social protection institutions, sports and youth, local self-government and the treatment of rare diseases. The preparation of gambling must be socially responsible and directed towards the protection of minors, the prevention of diseases, the dependence on participants in gambling and the protection of data on the personality of participants in gambling. The directors are obliged to implement in the most efficient way the ban on the participation of minors in gambling. All employees of the gambling directors who have direct contact with participants in gambling before entering work must be trained to prevent the disease of addiction against participants in gambling. It is the obligation of every editor to highlight a 100h80sm poster within an object in which he organizes gambling in the immediate vicinity of the front door, where there is an appropriate text on the prevention of addiction disease, as well as contact details of the institution responsible for health care tasks certified for the treatment of gambling addiction. When gambling is held in kiosks, a poster of 50h40cm stands out on the outside of the kiosk. Every counter or counter that registers participation in gambling must have a brochure, a flyer with the specified data. The editors are obliged to protect data on the personality of participants in gambling in the most efficient way in accordance with the applicable legislation. The Minister responsible for Health Affairs prescribes the appearance and content of the prospectus. The preparation of gambling is an act of general interest for the Republic of Serbia, except for the law of the Republic of Serbia. The general interest in the performance of gambling is achieved in particular, under one - providing dedicated budget receipts, under two - synchronising games with socio-economic and other opportunities and under three - avoiding the risk of crime, protecting against deception and removing the negative facts that have games of chance. The dedicated budget receipts and executive expenditure will be conducted separately under the main book and the Treasury on tax records, etc. budget funds. Budgetary funds are established by the decision of the competent authority for an indefinite period of time and are managed by the ministries responsible for social protection, sports, youth, local self-government and health. The sources of funding of the budget funds are, under one - the appraisal provided in the budget for the current year, under two - a fee for the preparation of games of chance and under three - a fee for permission and compensation for obtaining approval for the preparation of special gambling, i.e. the consent for the preparation of prize games in goods and services. The budgets are allocated at 19% each for funding, under one – the Red Cross of Serbia, under two – the Organization of Persons with Disabilities and other associations, whose aim is to improve the socio-economic and social situation of persons with disabilities, under three – the Institute of Social Protection and other associations whose aim is to improve the socio-economic and social position of a person in a state of social need, under four – Sport and Youth, under five – Local Self-Government Units. Dedicated budgets are allocated at 5% to finance the treatment of rare diseases. The methods and criteria for the allocation of funds for the financing of entities and purposes shall be determined by the competent ministers. The law on gambling regulates the right to play games on happiness, the kind of gambling, the conditions of staging, the rights and obligations of game directors, the achievement and belonging of incomes achieved by hosting gambling, as well as the supervision of game-to-happiness. The reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games are also contained in the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to bring its legislation into line with new international standards in the field of prevention, detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. International standards in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, which were brought in 2012 by the Organisation for the Control and Prevention of Money Laundering. The provisions of the draft law will apply to all legal persons in the sense of obtaining appropriate assurances of non-judgment for prescribed criminal offences. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, what has been shown by the National Research of the Impact of Psychoactive Substances and Games on Happiness in 2014 by the Batut Institute? Absolutely, the most represented game of chance is playing lottery, lottery, bingo, scratch cards. Fifty-four point six percent of the adult population played some kind of lottery during life. Sports betting is the second most represented kind of gambling held by 17.2% of the adult population once during their lives. Other forms of gambling are less represented. The slot machine during life played 5.5% of the adult population and it is also the third most represented form of gambling. While playing the lottery is equally represented in the general population by half and years, other forms of gambling are represented among men. For example, 91.5% of those who bet in sports bookies are men most often 44 years of age. A total of 3.7% of Serbia's population is at certain risk of gambling problems. If these results are reflected in the general population in Serbia from 18 to 64 years of age, the risk gambling rate is estimated at 51 000 out of 93,000, from 14000 to 33,000 pathological gamblers. At the greatest risk of gambling problems are those who gamble on casino games, slot machines and online gambling, almost 50%. Those who have played the above-mentioned games in the previous year are at some risk of gambling problems. Among intensive users, substances, as well as some who gamble and play gambling, are observed higher levels of psychological distress, anxiety, tension, anxiety, especially among everyday users of sedatives, cannabis users, casinos and slot machines. A total of 1,750 bookies were registered in Serbia by July 2016. The law on gambling provides for the obligation to pay fees for the approval of special gambling, of which a total of 12.8m euros are charged on the basis of the annual revenues of the tax administration. In the Association of Gamemakers, they point out that it's only part of the imposition. Unfortunately, there are more pathological gamblers among minors in Serbia, despite legal bans and rigorous penalties for all who allow to gamble. This problem is increasingly widespread, and some of them lose thousands of euros in bookies and poker machines. And there's this losing stage of despair, when addicts do everything to get their money back and get out, and that's how they get into even bigger losses. In the Association of Game Directors, they say they are aware that many casinos and bookshops do not respect legal provisions and allow minors to bet even on the line, which is why they are getting into an even bigger problem in bookies. I.D. checks the staff when they estimate that the person is under 18, which can easily lead to a mistake. The minors usually decide in front of the bookies which games they will play, and then give the adult money to pay them the desired ticket. There's nothing to be done, because money is paid by an adult. Besides this, there's another variant, when minors fill a ticket to bookies that are at that point in the bookies. It's the same procedure in case they get the money. The feeling of boredom and the desire for excitement are the main motives for the cube. The consequences – poor success in school, running away from class, family conflicts and aggression. Most of all, children from poor families gamble. Gambling in a minor is no less a problem than a drug addict. According to recent studies, pathological gambling creates the same biochemical processes in the brain as when you take drugs. Along with the bookies he has at every turn, the big problem is numerous Internet casinos. There's a problem that a child can sit at home and gamble. There is an option on betting sites for registering orders for which the name and last name, username, e-mail and the desired password should be entered. Some online casinos have an age category that you have to fill, a year of birth, before registering, but some have no option, so underage betting is easier. Also, minors can use parents' data, including their birth date. I repeat, in the end, the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32389	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32390	Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the law on gambling. As you have heard, the Justice and Reconciliation Party has already launched the initiative and will request that the next session be placed in the agenda of the law on the abolition of gambling, more specifically gambling. Neither in Muslim nor Orthodox tradition, or ethnicity, can we find any single argument to legalise gambling games. And when it comes to the damage this monster causes to young people and to all other citizens, it certainly would take us a long time to present all aspects of evil from this monster here. But there is no doubt that it is another source of mentality, morality, mental and mental health of the entire nation, which is certainly at risk of demographic and migration destruction, as well as many other problems. That is why we will remain consistent with the definition to ask that gambling, or gambling, be completely abolished, and we would not be the first to do so. I will remind you that in 2009, Russia completely banned gambling and that for decades, or more than a century, gambling games in the United States have been banned except in two specific places. But until we fight for the new law on banning gambling, we will try to make our contribution through the legal changes that have been proposed, so that we will have a set of amendments with the requirement that those who want to deal with this business be put in order, with, above all, the requirement to move away from the settlements, which we will explain when the time comes. However, we will focus on the application of the existing law, which unfortunately is not respected. The example is Novi Pazar, in which there are dozens of gambling facilities, which are close to 200 meters from educational facilities, and kindergartens and elementary and secondary schools and universities. It's a crime scene, and it's not a good thing we're fighting at a party level, but to make an alliance against this monster that threatens everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32391	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32392	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, given the remaining time that is short, I will devote myself to a set of these laws that we are discussing today only one of them, and these are amendments and additions to the factoring law. For Serbian citizens, the factoring institution itself is probably not very well known, but it is very useful and extremely practical in terms of simplifying the collection of claims. What you have done well, dear ministers, is that you have begun this law by harmonising with EU legislation. I have to remind you that you've really done the right thing by focusing on something that's very important. Factoring as a financial transaction implies, in the most frequent number of cases, that a company that has claims from some other business entities and is in an unfavourable business situation, this claim can be sold and sold mainly to debt seekers, under the assumption that, of course, that is to say, it is easier to collect those claims and thus comes to trade funds. Very well, and unlike a bank loan, it involves a variety of reliefs. First of all, there's no mortgage, no stock. It's not about the loan. It's about the sale. Whoever takes the claim, takes the risk of collecting claims, and thus in our financial system allows banks, as is the case with the Bank, the purchase of claims, to charge those claims later, but therefore injecting a financial injection to those who are not really able to operate in a positive way. In that sense, and I end up here, I want to commend you for the very way you've set the law when it comes to washing new, preventing terrorism and drug trafficking. Once again, support for the entire set of laws that the SPS parliamentary group will undoubtedly vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32393	Thank you. You have received the resignation of MP Milos Boskovic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity of the National Assembly, finds that the mandate ended, before the time it was elected, to MP Milos Boskovic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. We're moving on. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. He's not there. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32394	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I would like to discuss this occasion with you a similarity between the draft law supplementing the Accounting Act, the Law on Audition and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on factoring and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games. I am not personally touched by the fact that it is probably one of the motives of harmonising with European directives, but what I particularly appreciate is that this will have a direct impact on further business in the Republic of Serbia, and I think this is a good practice that should be taken over when other forms of commitment are at stake. Namely, what is very important to me is that these changes and additions limit the possibility that the founder, owner, member of the managing authority, the entrepreneur cannot be in these areas of which I have spoken, a person who has been convicted legally for crimes based on work, economy, property, justice, money laundering, terrorist financing, public order and peace, legal traffic and official duty. I think that these changes should be gradually introduced into other areas of business, because they will be very good as a complement to criminal legislation. In fact, we have a situation in which gentlemen, who have sinned against the law and who will be directly struck by these laws, have not shaken much, because for various reasons, instead of unconditional sentences and prisons, they have been given milder terms or shorter prison sentences, and then uninterruptedly, they have had the opportunity to continue to deal with the work they have done before. I hope this is just the initial step in that direction, because this will also make much better prevention when it comes to labour rights. After this, everyone will certainly be much more concerned about whether he has settled all his obligations, taxes, contributions and social security rights when it comes to employees where he or the founder, or the owner, or entrepreneurs, because extending such restrictions and other activities would make it impossible for those who in any way damaged workers under their social rights to continue to deal with economic activity. This is a very significant step, and this is what we would peopleally say that those who have sinned and put their paws into honey on the burden of workers, on the burden of this country, can no longer carry out economic activity in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32395	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. She's not present. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32396	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll look back at this set of changes to the law on gambling. First, it's the area I've been dealing with for many years, and I know very well both the world's markets and the market in Serbia. We hear here, it is not, of course, wrong colleagues who have this opinion and in our own public, that it is the worst monster, that it is a complete disaster, first of all, because what Serbia is facing, and that is the essence of why it is such a negative opinion, it is with a huge amount of illegal gambling market. Of course, it's easy to say that – let's put everything out, but when we need money for the Red Cross, when we need money for the development of amateur sports clubs, when we need money for homes of health, etc., then let's still stay games of chance, because the law provides that you take huge funds from there, right out of this area. We, by eliminating these games of chance, basically, had the opportunity here to hear that someone was looking for, would remove the funds that are very important to this human aspect that is and how important it is. Why am I talking about the illegal gambling market here? Dear Ministers and you were in some way involved in this whole topic as defence minister, while you were Minister of Defence, and you know well that there was one good attempt and was, of course, implemented at the time of Mr. Gasic, precisely the software of the Serbia State lottery was working at the Military-Technical Institute, i.e. that our Serbia Army essentially collects huge revenues from the state lottery of Serbia. I am proud that, once as the president of the Serbian National Lottery Assembly itself, I have participated in this work. These are huge funds for our army. What was the problem with the illegal market, the implementation of such things, is exactly what we had within the state system of people who worked with illegal editors and always tipped them off when, say, there's a tax inspection to, say, visit an illegal facility, in the sense of shutting it down. Someone from, of course, then the Board of Games or, after all, from the Tax Administration himself tips, they close the facility and, of course, the tax inspector can't do anything about it. That's why we came to the situation that we had 50% of the illegal market, which is a complete disaster. That's the problem where we have under 18 years of betting. It's that problem where we have everything in the gray zone, and it's because of that illegal market, and there's not enough desire for the state to deal with it. That's why we've lost enormous amounts of money and still, unfortunately, we're losing, especially with the development of new technologies, and especially with gambling on the Internet. We have a terrible problem pouring out money that's scary. Some estimates were that over 50-60 million on an annual basis we lose to an illegal market. I'd like to ask the state to return the game management. It was an unspeakable nonsense that we did, to put an end to the gambling administration. The only country in Europe is Serbia or one of the two countries in Europe that has no gambling management. In the UK, it's raised to the level of the ministry, because they know how much money that's going to be, how good it is for the state. When you have a legal director, he doesn't think of letting a younger than 18-year-old play any game, he doesn't think of letting someone, what our people would say, get scattered in a bookie because he wants to have consummation in terms of a player who came to have fun, not destroy himself. They're in debt because everywhere in the world, it's the legal directors who asked to get into the legal frameworks so-called. Social responsibility, and that's what we've been asked by people who are legal directors to put in this social responsibility, where you're obliged, for example, in collaboration with the Draiser Institute, if you see an addict, to send him there and even owe his operators to pay stations to train him to be recognized and sent to Draiser for treatment. When you have an illegal editor, he'll never do it, he's really good at getting somebody to fall asleep, completely destroying his family, and that's why we have what we have today. I'm asking the state to stand here finally behind the tail of illegal directors and especially on the Internet because we have a complete circus, because there's simply no control, and there's a military-technical institute that could've done a lot, I hope they will, because they have these labs and the possibility of doing something like that so that illegal editors can absolutely contain themselves. Someone here has said that the Russian Federation has abolished the games of chance. That's completely incorrect. The Russian Federation has one of the best sports betting laws, and as far as gambling zones are concerned, it has created six in the state and only there can you play casino games. They've got something like the U.S. It wouldn't be bad for us, but we're small territories to introduce something like that, but the Russian Federation, I say, has one of the best sports betting laws without talking about the Great Britain that has brought such a thing. Otherwise, the best laws are Malta, which is an extraordinary state in this matter, and you there, if you want to stage gambling, you have to go through at least one 40 instances, very awkward, from being checked out by the full origin of the money, whether you accidentally financed from terrorism, from crime, from what I don't know. It's good to be introduced to us, this particular member, this isn't bad, but we need to know, what we're introducing now with these changes that can't be a game-makers of chance for someone who's been involved in some crime, he'll never be. He'll always go to the gray zone. A legitimate editor will never do that. Whoever's an illegal editor, he'll do it, and that's where the state must finally get in the way, if he wants to root out that monster and, of course, make it possible for people who are legally setting it up, that they can do it in a healthy and good way and keep the money safe in the country. That we have for funding and sports clubs and homes of health and red cross, etc. I hope that the Serbian Government, and it seems to me that the amendments to the Law on Games on Happiness, somewhere and done, given that we have the old 2011 law, will be quite overcome, but today, I hope that it will finally come to the agenda and that we will soon vote on such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32397	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not there. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. He's not there. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32398	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, after such a good and exhausting speech by fellow Djukanovic, really a man doesn't know what to say. We have before us a set of, above all, financial laws relating first to compliance with EU criteria and rules, and I would not discuss it much. As far as the first law is concerned, it is the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, and I have submitted a few amendments there, and when it is time for amendments, I will say a lot more. What I would talk about tonight and what I would draw attention to is the point of the election of the DRI Council. Since 2012, I have been following the work of the DRI, as a member of the Committee on Finance, and who is monitoring the work of the audit, it is my pleasure that here, I think, this is a unique opportunity and a unique moment, to point out what the DRI has done. If we think of that time when we were struggling for them to get their, above all, room, to train personnel and professionally, because the biggest problem had just been built personnel that could deal with a very important issue of our financial system. With help, I can say these congregations and the previous two convocations, and also this third one, they found first and foremost a roof over their heads, they have good and quality personnel and I will be pleased if in the day of voting parliamentary majority accepts the request of the Committee on Finance proposed by members and the Supreme Auditor. I would take the opportunity to thank the current auditor, Mr. Radoslav Sretenović, for everything he has done in his work. First of all, it is a great effort for a young institution to reach some built-up European institutions, even to overcome them. I think in the region, except for the Slovenian audit institution and these Serbian ones, there's no such thing as strong. Thank you very much. I'd like to finish this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32399	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not there. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32400	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law on the confirmation of a financial contract - the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, because as a national MP, I come from that city. The financial contract – Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank was signed in Belgrade on 31 January 2018, worth 134m euros, for the project – The reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, which totals about 300m euros. The project consists of three parts. The first, reconstruction and modernisation of the existing single-circuit line Sičevo-Dimitrovgrad in the length of 80 km. Second, the construction of a single-circuit bypass north of the town of Nis and the third component of the Red Cross section, the connection to the bypass and Sićevo-Dimitrovgrad. The project is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia because the railway is part of Corridor 10 and represents a link between Serbia and Bulgaria with Turkey and the Middle East. Also, this railway is the only part of Corridor 10 that is not electrified, and of great importance to the Republic of Serbia, in order to encourage transit through Serbia as a competitive direction of Corridor 4. In addition, this project solves the problem of the railway node, which I will now speak of in detail, as an important hub in southern Serbia, which means removing the railway line from the centre of the town of Nis, etc. It's a train bypass project around Nis. Nis railway station, average, or Sitchovo. To remind me, it has been said for years that the railway will be moved and all the authorities have talked about it, and Mayor Zoran Zivkovic, and Mayor Milos Simonovic and Mayor Ćirić. None of it's been done. A concrete step was to sign a protocol on the shift of the 2012 railway between EU representatives, then Minister of Transport, Mr Mr Mrkonjic and Mayor Nis, Zoran Perisic. The analysis of this project showed justification, first of all, from an economic aspect, because 11 million per year is lost on the railway station Prosek route, and the profit is only one million and 500 thousand dinars. Second, the environmental aspect. The third aspect, the loss of life because the railroad was passing through the centre of Nis, which is the most important thing for this. The project envisioned a double track for passenger and freight traffic, as well as separation for the town of Zaječar. Afterwards, however, former Railway Director Dragoljub Simonovic said it had given up and that the existing railway should only be electrified, which would be an actual permanent solution to this railway. He reacted to Deputy Mayor Nis, LJubomir Slavkovic, and in 2015, the Republic spatial planning agency banned the railway from electrifying. Finally, in 2016, the Czech firm Sudopraka completed a bypass project with EU money. The railway bypass around Nis will cost about 22km from the railway station, i.e. Popovac to Proseko, i.e. Sic will cost 80m euros. The construction will be financed by the state of Serbia, i.e. its citizens through the budget and the European Investment Bank as a 134m-euro loan and some grants. As far as dynamics are concerned, it is next – expropriation, i.e. the ransom is due to be completed by 2018, the start of construction by 2019, and the completion of works in 2022. The expropriation was authorized by the town of Nis and was allocated 14m euros for two thousand and 200 owners, i.e. 1,762 parcels and 61 buildings, or houses. But before I say that the state has declared public interest on this land. Of which two-thirds of this land is owned by the state, and 30 hectares is private property. In order to change the purpose of land or preparation for about 500 solutions, Nis has singled out 15 million dinars for tax purposes alone, which was not his obligation. An international tender for contractors will be launched after these shops. So much for this odyssey across the city of Nis. This capital work for the city of Nis, as I said, will end in 2022 thanks to the politics of the SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who is also showing concern for Nis, under the motto -- not only that all roads lead to Rome, but all roads lead to Nis, come and see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32401	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic. He's not there. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32402	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, we have a set of economic laws. It is 19 laws and what citizens cannot see, but I will pass on, across from us, to the place where opposition MPs, MPs of the yellow company, there is no one, because these laws are not of interest to them, they are interested in supporting the MP who, after the third warning, received a warning, or measure of distance from the hall. They stood behind him, instead of supporting the President of the Assembly, they supported someone who insulted the same president and who insulted the dignity of the Assembly itself and thus showed that they were more interested in this, not in the laws that greatly affect all citizens and who regulate the business of the state itself and who will bring improvement to all citizens, i.e. improve their business and use of different visions in the work of economic laws. Planically and with a goal, this is the basic message of all these laws, and they are all the continuation and continuity of the government, which since 2012, in 2016 and to this day continues with all the laws that govern this country and which lead to one sure step and which are on the right track. One of the important ones, in my opinion, may be the most significant law in which citizens will feel very quickly changes, and that is primarily the Tax System Act and the Tax Administration. The modern tax administration, the administration that will probably be improved through the amendments, will certainly receive support from the majority led by the SNS in the voting day, and will assume responsibility not only for the law but for the set of all 19 laws that we will vote for in the voting day. The modern tax administration is tailored to citizens, to the extent of economic operators and to the extent of the state, and has just been made by law to respond to the needs that have arisen in business in previous years. The division of the definition of knowledge, i.e. calling tax officials, where it will be simplified, is known to the employees, but let the citizens know, in the tax administration we will only have three calls, these are the reference and tax associates and tax inspectors. What is very important to taxpayers is that taxpayers will finally have the possibility that if the obligation they have to pay is not possible, they will be able to postpone their payment with a grace period of up to 12 months. Of course, the tax inspector will find that on the spot. We're talking about tax inspectors who will be in the service of citizens, not just in the service of collection and coercion. He'll be there to answer both with counsel and first of all to be co-workers, not just someone who's looking for a way to punish and, in some ways, to put a taxpayer in a position to pay for something, if there's no need of course it won't be paid. So there is a new policy that will focus on the taxpayer, or citizen. The taxpayers will certainly have the opportunity to comply their business with electronic business, and to make all their tax acts and documents simple delivery through e-mails and other types of electronic communication, which is very important and is part of comprehensive programmes related to information technologies and the Office for Information Technologies and Electronic Administration. What is more important, it is that conditions are created in this law, conditions are created for the tax administration to send tax solutions and some kind of reminders or to remind citizens or taxpayers of its obligation before sending a notice or a solution with an increased interest increase, or something like that. So, before the obligation, it will be possible to send text, email or any other form of electronic communication. The unique information system of local tax administrations is foreseen by this law by 1 January 2019, certainly conditions will be created for it to be turned into work. In one word, new technologies and information systems are just in use through the modern tax administration and through this law open doors to new and simpler ways of doing business. I would certainly have to mention in this address, regarding these 19 laws, the Foreign Business Act, which is for every praise and respect, first of all in terms of the business of foreign and domestic investors and the general economic environment in Serbia. This law is imposed as an obligation and it is something that we must comply with not only the EU needs, but precisely the needs of investors operating in our market. All that about the previous governments by 2012 could only dream about and about what they had spoken and promised in some pre-election promises and myths, just like this government and governments in continuance from taking responsibility, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, for Serbia's implementation, are just continuing politics through these laws. It is very important, and I will probably end up, to point out that the decision to elect the DRI Council is an extremely important decision, given how much the DRI has contributed to stability and even security in business, if we have in mind that the DRI is the one controlling the business of all local budget administrations. Of course, the DRI also controls the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we are adopting here in the Republic Assembly and is one of the guarantees for a safe and bright future not only of the state, but of every individual in that country. I would like to point out that the departure of the first man is DRI for every praise, but I expect that in the coming period the work of the DRI is strengthened for the reasons that many city and municipal administrations only carried out business control for 2015. I come from a city where it's just amazing, but the citizens of Sapca already know it, but I think they heard Serbian citizens, that the DRI controlled the business of the city of Sapca for 2015, found five million euros, which the mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic, along with his associates, spent past the budget of the projected items and as a result, of course, is a criminal application that found its finalisation in the basic court in Sapac. On April 18th, I think the trial is finally beginning for the mayor's purposeless spending of funds. The state audit institutions are guaranteed that this will be less and less. What makes me happy, too, is that the DRI just controlled both city and municipal administrations where they are in power and some members of the SNS and there was no room for malfeasance. All those who did not comply with the law have a problem with criminal charges and with the law, i.e. they have a problem with how to answer how and why they misused their position. In the voting day, of course, I support all these laws and I call on all those who think well of this Serbia, who think well of their citizens, to vote for a set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32403	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32404	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act is in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other. The agreement set out that after four years of the entry into force of this agreement, the Republic of Serbia will have already entered into force on 1 September 2013, to ensure the free movement of capital relating to portfolio investments and to financial loans and loans with a maturity of less than a year. In addition, the Republic of Serbia had an obligation to bring its legislation into line with international standards in the field of preventing and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing. This would prove concrete progress in each of the key areas of the Authority's recommendations for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, thus showing readiness to protect the financial system from potential abuses through amending regulations. The Republic of Serbia would fulfil its obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other hand, which would relate to the free movement of capital. In short, the proposed solutions will contribute to further improvement, among other things, of the digital and information sector in the Republic of Serbia, which is in line with the government's activities to improve this sector, i.e. all of Serbia's digitalisation. Since only in 2017 the export of IT sector services reached 900m euros, which is 21.5% more than in 2016, there is a positive trend in growth in the IT industry. Since the proposed solutions in this law will allow payments, charges and transfers to Serbia other than the dinars to be made in foreign exchanges, on the basis of the purchase of software and other digital products on the Internet, which are supplied exclusively by means of telecommunications digital or information-technological devices, provided that payment is made by using a payment card or electronic money via a payment service provider based in Serbia, it will contribute not only to further improvement of the domestic infrastructure sector, but also to reducing the costs of exports of this sector, and thus to greater competition on foreign markets. It is freely said that by making these solutions we are pulling, in the jargon of people who are engaged and who are in love with information technology, a revolutionary move that will positively affect all companies, especially those who are engaged in foreign trade and foreign exchange business. With a high degree of security, we can expect a greater inflow of foreign capital and easier cross-border investment. This, but also other draft laws in this set of laws put Serbia in line with the rule of law, and our path to full membership in the EU will become more visible and more certain. I am particularly stressing here the excellent solutions in the proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system, which I hope to have the opportunity to speak of in more detail. The amendments to the laws on the agenda, and in particular the Law on Tax on Additional Value, then the Act on Excises, as well as the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Serbian Government has shown that it is seriously approaching every problem and successfully finding the best solutions and is ready to correct mistakes, if any, in order to improve and develop the whole society. At the end of this exhibition, I would like to express my enormous satisfaction with the way I work and especially with responsibility and household relations towards all my obligations by the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Serbia's advanced party led by President Aleksandar Vukic has put high expectations before the Serbian government and be assured that we will be persistent in these expectations, reflecting the expectations of the entire population of the Republic of Serbia, to be finally realised and the decisions implemented. In a tumultuous economic and political environment and in a situation where objective circumstances change from week to week, day to day, and from hour to hour, Serbia needs peace, stability and accelerated economic development, while strengthening the rule of law. In addition to the general satisfaction of the essence and form of the proposed laws, I have submitted several amendments to which I will try to make my contribution, to their improvement, but I will talk about it when the time comes. In principle, I support all the law proposals submitted by the Serbian government for this session and I will vote for their adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32405	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32406	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, we from the SNS support a set of laws on today's agenda and we will vote for them. In my presentation, I will stick to the draft law amending and supplementing the factoring law. What I'm saying is that factoring is very present in developed countries, and recently it's very interesting for small and medium-sized enterprises. Speaking of factoring, it's not for the sake of the public to repeat the definition of factoring to make it more clear what we're talking about. In fact, factoring is a financial transaction, i.e. a financial business where a company that expects revenue, which is a seller of products and services, and has claims based on invoices or accounts to third parties, sells those claims to a third party, i.e. an institution dealing with the collection of claims, which is usually a bank or a specialised company called a factor, at a lower price. The factor gets cash immediately, i.e. cash before maturity and thus the company comes up with liquid assets that are necessary for continuing to maintain its business independently of creditworthiness. So in factoring, we have three essential elements. Three parties participate in the transaction – a seller or a client, a buyer or a debtor and a factor. The purchase factor of the claim takes full responsibility and the risk of collection. The third essential element is the purchase. With these amendments and additions to the CS Act, Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia show readiness and determination to protect our financial system from potential abuses and the Republic of Serbia as a legally responsible state respects and implements international standards in the field of combating money laundering and terrorist financing, and thus we are all walking in step with the world together. I want to say what the paper is in this bill, it's four newspapers. The first news is that the Ministry of Finance issues approval for the performance of factoring operations in the form of solutions and at the request of the owner of a company. The second newspaper is a legal person's obligation to contribute to the finance ministry, in addition to the required documentation, and to assure the competent authority that no criminal proceedings are being conducted against it and that it has not been convicted. The third paper is the obligation of the owner, i.e. the founder of the company, to provide certified declarations of the amount of their shares, i.e. actions in the factoring society. The fourth newspaper is required to submit the report to the finance ministry within 10 days of the change. In this way, with these changes and additions, a ban is introduced, among other things, that criminally convicted legal entities cannot and will not be founders and owners of a factoring society. With these amendments and additions to the factoring law, the Republic of Serbia is harmonising its legislation with international standards and regulations in the area of preventing and removing money laundering and terrorist financing, so that full support to the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on all proposed laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32407	The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32408	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am going to speak today about the confirmation of the Niš – Dimitrovgrad Financial Contract, but not with the same ferocity as my colleague Branimir Rancic, since he comes from Nis. But since I come from Soko Banja, it is very important for us to develop a traffic infrastructure in Nis, because in fact, it is also the main hub from where we are headed for the arrival of tourists in Soko Banja. The Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget planned a debt on behalf of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which was signed on 31 January this year, amounting to 134m euros. The funds are intended for electrification and modernisation of signalling and construction of a single-circuit bypass north of the town of Nis, as well as for reconstruction and modernisation of the existing one-wheel line Sitjevo-Dimitrovgrad. This track is the only part of Corridor 10 that is not electrified and therefore it is necessary to reconstruct this rail line, in order to stimulate transit across Serbia and remove narrow throats. The railway is a link between Serbia and Bulgaria, which moves a large amount of goods from Turkey and the Middle East. It would also point out that almost, on March 9th, the minister of construction, infrastructure and traffic met with Bulgarian Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, where they also discussed the reconstruction of the railway and, among other things, resolving the problem of keeping goods and passengers at the border crossing between Serbia and Bulgaria. The completion of the work of Sicevo-Dimitrovgrad stock is planned for 2020, while the tour around the town of Nis for 2023. The total value of this project is 268.28m euros, of which 134m euros are provided by EIP loan, 61.24m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and 73.04m euros in donation of the Investment Framework for the Western Balkans. The repayment period of this loan is 25 years, including a period of five years, without paying the bank an affordable fee and a fee on grants, with an average interest rate of 1.6%. I am truly sorry that there are no opposition representatives here today, to hear what loans are used to build Serbia's infrastructure, not as in their time, at 7, 8 and 10 percent were paid interest. Finally, I must point out that I am grateful to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to our President, Aleksandr Vukic, as we are witnesses of the construction, modernisation and reconstruction of Serbia's railway infrastructure, such as the Belgrade-Budapest projects, Shabac-Bracin, Željev Bridge, Stara Pazova, Novi Sad, and the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Zagreb railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32409	Thank you. The word has been given by the messenger of the people, Tian the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32410	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will pay special attention to the amendments to the Excise Act. The most significant change provided for by this law is the release from the payment of excise duty on certain oil derivatives used for industrial purposes. The proposed solution directly affects the reduction of the costs of operators operating in the processing industry sector, resulting in lower final product prices which will be competitive both on the domestic and on the foreign market. This solution will also create liquid assets necessary for investment investments in the processing industry sector. Also, one of the positive sides of amending this law is the creation of a stable and continuous process of production. The proposed legal solution would motivate economic operators, through the release from the payment of the excise on raw materials, used as reproductive material for the production of industrial products, to increase the volume of production and export transactions, which is directly related to the increase in direct taxes income, and thus to the income tax of legal persons, the income tax of citizens, as well as the contributions to compulsory social security. Economic operators may, in accordance with applicable regulations, refaction of the paid excise duty on certain oil derivatives, but it should be taken into account that the refaction procedure implies the involvement of significant financial resources, as well as the time-limit for the exercise of the right to refaction of the paid excise duty. This legal solution proposes the release of excise duty on certain petroleum products and, in order to carry out the production process uninterrupted, by operators using them for industrial purposes. The Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed set of financial laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32411	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32412	I thank the chairman. We today have a lot of proposed amendments and additions to the law and it's hard to talk about everyone. I will define myself mostly for one, but I will only mention one, and that is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games of Happiness. There's been a lot of words here about it, and I think a good part of the MPs is right and he saw and suggested, but what's the essence of all this is that games are going to exist. It's only important to make legal regulations so that gambling is controlled, that the state benefits from them, that there is no need to go not to be in those facilities where gambling is organised. And that's the point. I think any alterations and additions or new legislation simply contribute to the best-organized games of chance. What grabs attention, at least to me, is a special proposal for a law supplementing the Revision Act. These supplements regulate that the founders of the audit society and independent auditors cannot be someone who is convicted, which is absolutely fine and should be supported regardless of the political options that are here in the Assembly. However, today I would define myself as something that is from practice and something from the work of the DRI. I watched closely and was involved in their work, their control, and I can say that I have very positive experience with them. I think it's okay to say here, too, that first those people who do it, do it very detailedly, do it professionally and most importantly. They have no influence on either the outside or the inside. For example, if local self-government is correct and quality co-operates with DRI, it is good for both it and all direct and indirect budget users. There is much to learn from this, not to make mistakes in future work and to spend budgets properly. There are examples where local self-governments don't do it, fortunately it's a small number of local self-governments. My suggestion is that they cooperate as much as possible, because it's primarily the best thing for them. What perhaps no one has mentioned here, and what is very important to me, is that the DRI from its work, from its experience, from its knowledge from the field suggests to the government, to the competent ministries to develop certain legal regulations for areas that are not sufficiently covered and I think both the government and the ministries are using and proposing certain legal solutions that we are considering here and adopting. And that's one benefit or a great benefit for all of us who are somehow defined as being in state institutions and being in contact with state money. These proposals, even everyone, these proposals that go from the DRI are also proposed and all MPs delivered in writing, and I think and I suggest that all colleagues read it, I think they can learn a lot from that, and especially from the users of the budget funds were those from the level of the Republic, were those from the level of local self-government. I'm going to say one small example from the level of local self-government, and it's been a long time since there's allowed a budget deficit, or financial deficit that can't be crossed, and that's 10%. The state audit institution proposes that this should be done in such a way that the budget deficit allowed is as much as the funds transferred from last year to the current financial year, which I think has great justifications, because certain local self-governments, especially small municipalities, are not able to work on large investments from the current annual inflow, whether it is nature, whether it is infrastructure, whether it is something else and they are saving funds and money, perhaps, two, three, four years, to make use of those funds in that amount or in a larger amount in one year and to be able to do something more serious. For these reasons, I think that this proposal is justified, and that the Government, and the ministries should consider it and see the possibility of the adoption of the State Auditing Institution proposal. That is why I think that this institution, although young, works fairly well, responsibly, and helps everyone to spend our budgets better, i.e. people's resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32413	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32414	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Djordjevic, respected MPs, is ahead of us a set of financial laws and are very important to adopt them, as exceptional efforts are being made to create business conditions, make them predictable and stable because of our country's development. In time, we prepare to reduce negative effects, possible market risks, foreign and interest risks. The aim is to encourage and improve the use of basic market instruments to protect against the foreign risk of business. Importers and exporters should be convinced that the need for protection against foreign exchange risk is lower, as the movement of the course is now more favourable and the oscillations are lower. A responsible undertaking should have such a principle as to eliminate risks by business, and it is in the state and concentrate on its business and business activities. As regards these amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act, for example humanitarian organisations can receive donations from abroad for humanitarian purposes, in foreign currencies. All residents can carry out payment traffic abroad through payment institutions and a public postal operator, then facilitate internet purchases, exchanges for a more favourable business environment, in order to attract as much investment in the country as possible, then obtaining guarantees and guarantees from non-residents on two grounds – importing goods and services and carrying out non-resident investment works in the Republic of Serbia will be greatly facilitated. As far as the factoring law is concerned, we've already heard our colleagues talk about it, and I'm just going to do something for a little while. What does factoring mean? Factoring in fact reduces dependence on the banking sector, i.e. reduces dependence on credit and factoring has been present in Serbia since 2005, but lack of knowledge of this matter, i.e. knowledge of these transactions, has not given adequate legal and lack of proper legislation, has not helped to develop it sufficiently. There is now a two-factor system, which means there can be one factor in the country, and another factor that is abroad, which has not been possible so far. The law eliminates problems in practice, and the higher level of safety of participants is in these affairs, which also brings state to law. The aim is to enable, under 1) an increase in the liquidity of the firm, under 2) greater security, below 3) greater competitiveness and below 4) better credit capacity. It's the basis of this introduction of changes to this factoring law. The next law, this is a fairly large area, because it is more financial laws and what is important are amendments to the VAT law. The value added tax, the main reason for this supplement is to agree with the Law on financial support for families with children and with EU rules on taxation of VAT consumption, all to create more favourable conditions for business operators. The VAT refund for baby food and equipment is foreseen, to be replaced with a parental supplement, increased for the purchase of equipment for the child and for children born, concluded on 30 June 2018, for which the right to refund VAT is not fully used, which I believe will greatly facilitate the procedure and administrative matters. The tax exemption would boost production and increase export operations by domestic companies and increase the competitiveness of domestic economy in the international market, which would mean that foreign bonds do not bear VAT for the purchase of goods and services in the Republic of Serbia unless they are subject to registration obligations. The establishment of these amendments to the law contribute to legal certainty, affecting economic operators, VAT debtors to operate more easily, then increasing the transport of goods and services in free zones, which would also affect budget revenues. I think this law is very important for those reasons. What would I say about these laws? I would rather say something now about Minister Vujovic, who is the bearer of the Ministry of Finance, that he is a world expert and that we have a lot of confidence in the country's finances. I am glad that Minister Djordjevic is there, but I am sorry that Minister Vujovic is not there. Minister Vujovic will be the inauguration of the Beijing conference, which is one of the most significant events in the world of this type and which deals with investment in infrastructure. This conference includes the leading ministers and governors of the central banks of Europe and the world and other experts of international institutions. As regards Minister Vujovic, on 26 January 2018, he was awarded the "reformer of the year" award awarded by the National Alliance for Local Economic Development, for the overall contribution and improvement of the business environment and for the results achieved in 2017 in the area of countering the grey economy, reform of tax burdens and creating stimulating conditions for the development of entrepreneurship. Serbia is a small country, however, has a great statesman, and that is Aleksandar Vukic. Serbia is a small country, but has world-renowned experts such as Minister Vujovic. Serbia's economic growth is recognised in the world. From the negative curve we started to keep growing, with a number of technological challenges for the permanent rise of productivity, permanent mobility of people, goods, creating conditions for new and private investments is important. In the end, I would say the following, and it relates to our entire government and especially to Minister Vujovic and the Ministry of Finance – no one accidentally became smart, as knowledge gained by effort and work, Seneka said. That's why we have among our ranks in the SNS people we can look up to and who have come to the highest positions with knowledge and effort. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32415	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32416	Thank you. Dear Mr. Milicevic, the well-respected Minister Djordjevic, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, has progressed 12 places in the World Economic Forum's competitiveness index. It is Serbia's best score registered last year since 2010, since the methodology changed. The improvements are seen in eight of the most important categories to assess the competitiveness of a country, and the biggest shift is in the macroeconomic environment, which is why Serbia has progressed by 31 positions. Serbia is indeed on the right track, as are relevant international institutions. It's good when we're ranked by strangers. According to the efficiency of the labour market, there is progress for 14 places, and in higher education and training for 10 places. When we know all of this, it is important to note the basic reasons why it is important to adopt the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia was sent to the Assembly on 6 September last year and aims to introduce a single standard of quality planning and public policy creation at all levels in the Republic of Serbia, a firmer link between planning and programming budgets, as well as better co-ordination of republican, urban and local levels. I'll remind you, and the world's most developed countries like America, Russia and China have their own clear plans, have certain forms of state interventionism. Many modern economic situation theorists talk about the existence of better and clearer plans for us would not even happen to a global economic crisis, whose negative effects we still feel today. What are the reasons for the adoption of the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, which I am going to talk about today? The basic reason, in fact, lies in the need to establish a comprehensive, efficient, transparent, coordinated, realistic planning system, to have all the key aspects of social, economic and development policy, but also of regional and spatial development, to use optimally our budgetary resources, thus ensuring the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia but also the efficient implementation of the European integration process. Speaking of European integration, I would like to remind you that Serbia has successfully opened 12 negotiating chapters, that we expect to open more chapters in the first half of this year, that our administration is ready. One of the basic chapters that we opened at the outset is Chapter 32, which refers to budgetary control, external, internal audit. So we have to make sure we budget planically and take care of our finances. Also, one of the important chapters that we have opened is Chapter 5, on its way to Serbia to the EU, which concerns public procurement and public procurement reform in our country. The basic reasons for the adoption of this law and what good it will do citizens, businesses and society in general is, in fact, this law and these regulations will contribute to effective planning in the Republic of Serbia and the management of public typeologies, but it will also lead to a hierarchy of planning documents, where we have transparency in the adoption and production of public policy documents, so that we know what our strategy is, what our plan is, what our action plans are, what our programmes are. I would also like to say that representatives of the ministry, state administration and local self-government have indeed organised a large number of public debates that were held from December of last year to January of this year and that all indeed took part in two round tables, all relevant representatives of the authorities of the state administration, the National Assembly, the civil sector, the independent state bodies, as well as representatives of the business associations. Also, good laws lead to good administration, and good plans lead to a country of happy citizens, to a country satisfied with citizens, which is one of the objectives of this law. Also, one of Serbia's positive steps towards EU membership, but also the improvement and well-being of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, was made in the domain of public policy making, and we are creating public policies just by adopting the law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, which the government has sent to parliament and which we want to actually modernise the planning and public policy system itself. Also, I want to say what it looked like when the state doesn't have a plan and the state doesn't have a clear vision and strategy. The former regime also brought plans and strategies without any enforceability in practice, without any relation to citizens, to the needs of citizens, without any sense of reality or real opportunities in our country, because citizens were punished, both in Bor and Sevojn and in Arandelovac and in Belgrade, because they did not provide any clear plans and development projects in the local self-governments in which they were running. Also, no one in the world will appreciate you seriously. You can't be a relevant factor on either the European or the international agenda if you speak one on the inside, and the other you talk when you sit outside the borders of this country. You write your own laws, you write your own strategies, certain plans, and then you don't implement them. What relevant foreign-political partner will take you seriously? Also, I would like to say that the SNS will adopt and support all these 16 legal solutions and accompanying documents on this agenda. I would invite all my colleagues from the position and opposition to support these really good legal solutions. The Serbian Progressive Party also offers a clear plan when it comes to the development of our village, our cities, our municipalities, all parts of this Serbia. We are very much different from our political opponents, from our other political parties, from our own political parties, because we keep our promises to the citizens. A good example of this is the reform of eGovernment and digitisation. In a short time, we have shown how through the reform of electronic administration, the state administration, digitisation, we can really show positive effects in both citizens and businesses, how we can fix our country's rating on both European and global terms and when it comes to the services offered by it and when it comes to building permits. The priority of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia is the employment and better life of citizens, and these are the most important topics and we stick to when we adopt and when we pass these laws. The reforms are based on three basic pillars, on economy, administration and the rule of law. When you know all this, then you are really proud when you attend a number of European forums and conferences, when your country, when the Republic of Serbia really praises and when they offer a number of words of praise, because Serbia has really made the most progress in the way of European integration when you look at all the candidate countries, when you look at the entire Western Balkans, and I really want to point out that in this House of the National Assembly. If you are doing well in the economy, if people have jobs, if they have decent salaries, if they have the opportunity to make career progress, then they will be interested in working more and developing more in our country, they will be less interested in the politics of hatred that part of the Serbian opposition promotes in the public sphere, which is bad for both our country and our citizens. In the end, I want to say this, I come from Belgrade, from the township of Rakovic. For the first time in 50 years, after more than five decades, we for Belgrade have a clear vision and a clear development and recovery plan. Forty years later, we built a home of health in Rakovica on Swan Hill. We opened a police station in Resnik, we opened a Capitol Park, an investment worth more than 30m euros. We made sure that our citizens of Rakovica, but also other parts of Belgrade, actually, live better. On the first March of this year, the reconstruction of the boulevard of Patriarch Paul began. It's that access station that leads to the bridge on Ada, which the previous yellow company has failed to do. We are also the bridge, which is the most expensive bridge in Belgrade's history. Here we go, and we're done. They couldn't finish one bridge for three mandates, as long as they ruled Belgrade. That tells you about the results and effects of their government. We in Belgrade, Belgrade is today a smart city, a world capital, a serious capital, we today have 800 online services. So, by electronic means, the citizens of Belgrade can realise one of their needs. We will invest more in our schools, hospitals, health homes, but also in the waterway, sewerage network in the next four years, because we have received the mandate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At the very end, I would like to remind you that we have invested 350m euros in suburban municipalities over the last four years, four times as much as Gilas' government in the previous period, when it comes to investing in suburban municipalities. We'll proceed to ambitious plans. Soon we will complete the reconstruction of Belgrade's railway knot. We want our rail traffic, our railways, to make the Serbian railways better and more efficient. We saw what a policy without a plan looks like in Belgrade and Serbia. Enough politics without a plan, enough politics without a vision. I want to use, in the end, all my fellow MPs to really support these good and quality legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32417	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32418	Thank you. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of reforming the plan system in the Republic of Serbia is to establish a system for effective and meaningful planning and public policy management at all levels. The existing problems in the planning system in the Republic of Serbia are not addressed in a clear enough way through existing regulations. That is why this law is proposed which will solve these problems. By regulating the planning system, which will cover all phases of planning, construction, implementation of public policies, by linking it with the budget process through medium-term planning, the authorities of the state administration will be more efficient in planning their work, activities for which they are responsible, as well as in the resources they have from the budget. What is still foreseen by this law is the active and systematic involvement of civil society organisations in the planning and adoption of public policies. The law will also contribute to the creation of a public administration that is more efficient in providing services to economic operators. By adopting this law, it will improve the quality of public services, living standards and meet the needs of all citizens. Therefore, this law regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems, medium-term planning, types and contents of planning documents. The draft plan system law prescribes the existence of several types of planning documents, in order to standardise types of planning documents, including development planning documents, investment plan, spatial plan and plans for the development of units of local self-government, then, public policy documents, including strategies, programmes and policy concepts and action plan and other planning documents relating to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The plan to develop units of local self-government will bring the bill to a period of at least seven years and it must contain vision, strategic objectives, priority objectives and how they are achieved. This law provides for the introduction of a single information system, which is an information system for planning, monitoring and implementing the coordination of public policies and reporting, in which participants in the planning system enter the content of their public policies documents, medium-term plans and report. So far, there has been no legal obligation to monitor and evaluate adopted public policies and regulations. As a result, certain rules and documents of public policy have been rarely changed in terms of corrections. This bill will make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32419	Thank you. The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32420	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, a set of financial laws we are discussing today, namely the proposed amendments and additions, in addition to compliance with international standards, are also achieving improvements in the application of proposed legal solutions in practice. With this in mind, I will, in my speech today, look at the changes and additions of the Excise Act, because practically, I will again refer to my long-term work and professional experience precisely in business functions at NIS "Gasprom Njeft" for sale and charge for oil and oil derivatives claims. According to the Excise Act, it was prescribed that excise duty should not be paid until 31 December 2017 on liquid and petroleum gas and on oil derivatives of certain tariff nomenclature, which are used as raw materials and energy in the production processes. In this respect, as of 1 January 2018, the economic operators used for the production of oil derivatives may, in accordance with applicable regulations, obtain refaction, i.e. the refund of paid excise duties. In view of the fact that the recovery procedure, i.e. the refaction of the excise duty paid, entails the involvement of significant financial resources for the purchase of the same, as well as the time-limit necessary for the exercise of the right to refuse paid excise duty, this legal solution proposes to exempt from paying excise duty on those oil products, and all in order to carry out the production process uninterrupted by economic operators using them for production purposes. This is very important. So far, the reaction to excise duty has been going on for a very long time. After three months, economic operators had the opportunity to submit and file large-scale refactions, i.e. recovery of excise duties, which significantly burdened the financial resources they could invest in investments and improve their work process itself. With the amendment of this Article 4 of the proposed law, which is added to Article 19a, where the excise duty is not paid on oil derivatives used as raw materials or energy for industrial purposes, it will significantly facilitate and improve the state of business of the entities concerned. Therefore, the main reasons for the adoption of this law are the creation of conditions for the release of excise duty on oil derivatives used for production processes, which is very important in order to maintain the stability of production and the provision of liquid assets necessary for investment investments in the processing industry sector. Also, by releasing the payment of excise duty on raw materials, i.e. oil derivatives used as raw materials or energy, operators would be motivated to increase their production volume, which is directly related to the increase of their income. The proposed legislative solution also directly affects the reduction of production costs, which should also lead to lower prices and a final product that would be more competitive both on the domestic and foreign markets as such. With all this in mind, I would really like to commend the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, which have worked to make additions and amendments to this law, which is really very important and will contribute significantly to the work of business entities in this area that have a practical stake in oil and oil derivatives. I am very glad that the future changes and additions to the law will come to the best practical solutions. With this in mind, Serbian People's Party MPs will support a set of proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32421	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32422	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I would also like to point out at the very beginning that the SNS in the voting day will support all proposed laws for the reasons that they are of great importance both from the development aspect of the Republic of Serbia and from the aspect of planning in all segments of society and with aspects of economic development and from the aspect of improving the quality of life of ordinary citizens. For SNS, everything it does, above all, in the legislative framework, the institutional framework, is aimed at ensuring development, to ensure economic stability, but also to improve the quality of life, i.e. the standard of all its citizens. I'd like to talk about the bill on the planning system. Why? Because I believe that planning also represents an important aspect of action in both economic policy and social policy and development policy, and depending on adequate planning... In fact, planning and economic and social development are in a direct causal relationship. I also want to say a few words about this law because it is systemically new and it is actually a legal framework for the adoption of plans from a republican level to the level of autonomous province to the level of local self-government. What are your plans? These plans, as envisioned by this law, need to be mutually harmonised, to be networked together. The Hierarchical Supreme is certainly the development plan that the government brings, or the National Development Plan of the Republic of Serbia, but in all these plans must be of the interest of all participants. I also want to point out that the adoption of plans is foreseen by this law, that it is adopted in a completely visible transparent and involved way. What does that mean? That it is passed through consultations and they are foreseen by this law at all stages of the drafting of the plan document, as well as through a public debate that has been envisaged so far. I would also like to point out that the planning that is overlooked by this law is responsible from the point of view that each institution of the system is in charge of implementing measures and activities under its jurisdiction. I want to point out that this type of planning is efficient and effective, and when I say efficient, I think it is in the interest of both business and economic development, because every investor, first of all, is interested in legal regulations when he wants to invest in some particular activity. Also, planning in this way is effective, because it is in the interest of citizens. I also want to emphasise the reality of this planning, and realistically it comes down to the link between planning and budget, which is very important, because only planning that is consistent with economic parameters can actually be realistic, can seek sustainable development and the progress of a country. I would also like to emphasise the establishment of an information system which is both significant and informative system will be established by the Government through the coordination body, which will also be responsible for preparing, and for making, and for monitoring, and for reporting, and for coordinating plans. Finally, I want to point out that the creation of a predictable legal environment is in the interest of both investors and citizens and that it is also the definition of SNS and that we will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32423	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32424	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, respected by Mr. Martinovic and Orlic, and I address you because you are the only one present here with your coalition partners, because there are no others from the opposition benches. I express my full support for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its fight for the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and especially for the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic in his superhuman fight for peace of tolerance and security, not only for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but for the region, and even beyond. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is reason to be optimistic, as industrial production in 2017 has had high growth, greater than in the last 25 years. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition, since you're not here, but you're looking from the congregation offices? I'm really sorry there's no one from the opposition, they were the only ones from the SRS, there's no one in the O.R., but gentlemen they're looking at it now from the congregation offices. The Serbian Progressive Party wants a competition, a competition in knowledge, in work, okay, discipline, and everything in the interest of our citizens, which is why they are not prepared except for honorable exceptions. I am sorry that the parliamentary group broke down, as my colleague Risticevic would say, "they never had enough." They instead, respected citizens, to discuss important documents for this country, they flee. If I may, Chairman, continue, if I can't, I can't. I'd like the cameraman to show why they're not here tonight. Only today they came to insult the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes, in front of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Marko Djurisic told her – what the hell are you doing? The Serbian Progressive Party wants Marko Djurisic, normally, to compete in work, okay, discipline, and they do not have to say, respected citizens, up to it. Say, my fellow university professor Dusan Pavlovic, when did you see him in these benches in the last two months? Of course not. He's got more important things to do. He deals with the pornography he sends us, etc. Shame on him to come here to a tall home. No wonder the citizens call him Dušan a "pornian" etc. That's what they do. If I were him, I probably wouldn't have come here to this high house. No wonder the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are worried when they see them. Believe it or not, they are ashamed to come to this high home to be seen by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only the DS, not only the SDS, but all parties from the former regime, starting and even Vuk Jeremic. Imagine what they were doing? They accused Mark Djuric and the Serbs of brutal beatings in Kosovo Mitrovica by the bandits of the Cypriots, believe it or not, President Vukic and Serbs, and the president of the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo, Rahmi Pecolli, said Thaci had long planned it. They have no courage to stand here in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So much for their patriotism and patriotic education. Dear Ministers, only two sentences on one of the most important laws in this country, which is the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia. You know why they're not here? Because this is the best document, one of the most important for this country. They didn't even read it, they're just willing to insult it. Why do I say that? The development plan, respected citizens, is the highest planning document of the country's long-term development for a period of 10 years. They didn't do it. If they'd done that, they wouldn't have robbed this country. That's why they're in trouble. The investment plan contains. They didn't have it. It's a seven-year development document. Is that what they were talking about here today? No, they're not. That's where we want to compete with them. The plan to develop the AP Vojvodina for seven years. Where are the Separatists today? Gentlemen of the Separatists, this is where you were supposed to be, from Vojvodina. There is no Zarko Korać in favour of the state of AP Vojvodina, he is more urgently supported by the neighbouring states, and the doctor has retired with the title of docent. Is the plan to develop units of local self-government for a period of seven years? Here's a chance. Why are they against it? No more robbery. They're used to robbing. Furthermore, the Development Strategy, a document one of the most important of all areas, starting with education, education, from economy etc. Why aren't they talking about it today? Do you know when he'll show up? When the projects are done, when something's done. They're criticizing everything that's been done in this country. Furthermore, an action plan for implementing the development strategies and the government programme of the Republic of Serbia for a three-year period. Remember 2016, I was here quoting the plan President Vukic made, etc. I ask them to take a look at the plan, or the exposé, have we realized? Even better than it is in that plan, but they don't wear it. There are no MEPs who don't carry their country's development plan in a bag. I ask them: Is that what they do? They're not working. They are inclined to criticise me the day before yesterday what I called Sasa Radulovic – Kradulovic. He is not even a thief anymore, respected citizens, but a rasulovic. He doesn't have any MPs here tonight, he's competing on who's gonna be his party president. I did not call him, nor did my colleague Risticevic, I have 40 quotes in the press for 10 years, so the journalists called him, and they criticized me, not what they criticised, Mr Martinovic, Mr Vukic and Mr Vlad Orlic. Where are the press gentlemen now? No one is to insult the press, but gentlemen of the press, he has a code. Government criticism is desirable, but only based on truth and fact, not media attacks. What you're doing on N1 these days, the CIA, has gone beyond what it takes. You may be ashamed. Some kind of Cvetin Milivojevic called Alexander Vukic to rule for life. Respected citizens will rule as long as you will, not as long as they will. Next, they called our colleague here and there that they were bottoms, that donkeys, idiots, all members of the SNS and citizens who voted for them. I'm not going to say that for them, but I'm going to say that they said they were going to piss on the grave of the president of the state and that's why I'm going to say that Sergei Trifunovic is a pisser or a peer. They called him that, he called himself that. Are we still gonna have this conversation? I want us to face it here, to talk about the program, but we need to sit down, to endure all day. Thank you, Mr. Orlic and Martinovic, since morning. Where are they now? That's what I want us to compete with, so if he wants to even physically, let's say football, but they can't do it. They don't care, they come, they show up, they swear, today their wife's been cursed here, they do it every day. You know what they did to Maya Gojkovic on N1, CIA TV? She was told that the bottom of the floor was insulted by a woman. Let him take a look at himself, this Cvetin Milivojevic. Well, he's, uh, sorry, he's dry of hate. He'll be eaten by hate. I don't hate anyone in this world. I want a confrontation in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the SNS wants, not to come, to insult and escape. The one today, imagine, from Smederevska Palanka what he was doing. There's that graphite, "There's no beer in Palank, the truth is alive, there's only foam left, there's yellow Ken. " You see, "A beer was expensive" etc. He says, "What does the bar drink, the budget pays for everything?" E can't do it anymore when it's a development plan. It's me, he says. Yellow Ken from Glibovac. Four hundred and sixty million, so of course they lost the election, what do they think this is for a while? The citizens control everything, and they need to control it. There are no gentlemen without work, order and discipline. With this planned document, Mr. Minister, the government and the state of Serbia and the president of the state are introducing order into this country. There's been no order for 20 years. There's been a robbery. The best workers have been named unemployed in this country. We're not gonna let that happen anymore. Let them come here, let them face us, we'll bring out the programs, so let the citizens vote. Which is a better program to vote for. Don't worry, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, about their insults, they don't know anything else. Believe me, they don't know. They show up at 1200 hours, the heads of the parliamentary groups, there's no one in one. Look at our two here this morning, including us here, all the MPs, Mr. Coalition partners. He can't, there's no opposition. Gentlemen of the opposition, let's compete in work, okay, discipline and endurance. That's what the citizens want. For their interest, for the improvement of this country. I'm sorry I'm a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32425	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. She's not present. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32426	Dear chairman, Minister Djordjevic, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, by passing laws on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, we are carrying out one of the most important aspects necessary for the EU's accession. The negotiating chapter 17, but also 22 that regulate economic and monetary policy, as well as regional, requires an efficient and realistic system of planning, both the Republic of Serbia and the AP and local self-government units. By passing this law, we are about to achieve coordination of our legislation with EU regulations, but more importantly, we will allow citizens of Serbia predictability, quality assurance and a rational administration of state resources. The legislative proposal allows the planned budget of the Republic to be in the best service of all citizens and businesses. In combination with the professionalisation of public administration, efficient planning systems will give the best results, so it is important to implement the state administration's drawn reform with this bill. Bringing the plan system preceding years of coordination with various state and non-governmental organisations has shown that it has a long-term and stable economic growth priority, with the quality of life improving for all its citizens. Introducing the concept of labor metricability and accountability, for the first time we will be able to reward good results and remove bad things. The adoption of a strategy without an adequate long-term plan and supporting laws is pointless and unnecessary. That is why I would like to commend the Resort Ministry and the Government that, before the adoption of one roof law like this, they have established a suitable ground for implementation and for the real achievement of all the objectives set out. Building a single integrated, information system to support planning and decision-making, whose establishment has just been provided with money from European funds, will be able to, on the basis of reports, plan effectively and consistently at all levels. By accurate observation of the participants and their results, we can evaluate these measures and bring appropriate policy into walking. So full implementation with the highest degree of transparency and control is what this unique information system brings. Also, the important thing that this law regulates is the obligation to carry out consultations in the making of documents and public policies, which will result in not the laws the government wants, but the laws and regulations of citizens. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this bill in the voting day, which I believe will be the best way to address the problems present in our state administration, which is primarily ineffectiveness and lack of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32427	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32428	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to thank a minister who has been patiently listening to us all day. Unfortunately, there's no one on the other side so now we're facing opinions so let's see what we're doing today, and we're doing very important laws. But, okay. Thank you. Anyway, I'll talk about two laws. The first is the draft law on the Serbian plan system. Since we are a country in the EU accession process, it is necessary to bring our legislation in line with EU directives. With this, the government has brought a package of regulations governing the plan system in the Republic of Serbia. The aim of this law is to establish an efficient, transparent, coordinated and realistic planning system that covers all key aspects of social and economic development policy and regional and spatial development, with optimal use of budgetary resources, while ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. This law would create a system of responsibility for results in the public administration that is necessary for the administration to be set up in an efficient and rational manner. It was necessary to establish a plan that was much more realistic on the principle of priority to use resources, which we do not have enough, in the best possible way. Also, the future law will ensure standardised quality, but also necessary tools that will best achieve the plans and set goals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is the public administration reform that is most important to the overall development of Serbia and the driver of European integration. It is a service of citizens who must be composed of professional and very professional personnel. With a precise qualification and accountability system, we will establish a system that will give citizens more, and the state will be less cost. It is therefore important to support this and all future laws aimed at improving the state administration and the entire state system. The second law I will talk about is the bill to confirm the financial agreement between the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. First of all, it should be said that Serbia, which from 97th place on the Duing Business List, jumped to 43rd place, is a good country for investment, to be built everywhere. In Belgrade alone, we have over 1,000 construction sites, in Serbia probably over 10,000. I would like to explain briefly why it is very important that all my colleagues vote in favour of this law. In fact, it is a loan from the European Investment Bank of 134m euros to reconstruct the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line. The project will consist of the reconstruction and modernisation of the existing Sisevo-Dimitrovgrad railway, which will include the restoration of infrastructure, electrification, but also the construction of a bypass north of Nis. There is no need to waste words on how important this investment is for this part of Serbia. In the future, we encourage transit, improve the quality of life of citizens, elect the only part of Corridor 10, which was not. In addition, we will connect with Bulgaria, via Bulgaria to Turkey and the Middle East. A project along with a more efficient flow on this section would solve the problem of crossing passenger and rail traffic, would solve the problem of a knot, which is most important in the south of the country, except of course the largest, Belgrade node. It's right at the crossing points of road and rail traffic, unfortunately, there have been fatal accidents. By passing this law, we will remove it. The completion of the project is planned in half of 2020, so citizens and businesses would very quickly feel better than the adoption of this law. The future modernized infrastructure will allow mixed traffic, passenger, freight, which would allow speeds from 80 to 120km per hour on the Sicevo-Dimitrovgrad section, and on the road around Nis from 100 to 160km per hour. Any time for the Republic of Serbia. Building in the south, Belgrade-Budapesta's high-speed railway is being built, as is responsible for the government's responsibility. The money we get from this loan is just part of the money needed for the whole project. In fact, we get 134m euros from Investcona Banka, but we get from the budget of the Republic of Serbia 60 and finally a donation of 73.4m euros, donated by the Western Balkans Investment Framework. Credit conditions are excellent. Why? Because repaying a loan is 25 years with a start of five years. We'll build the railroad when we get the loan back. Great. So, citizens, but also the economy will get a modern railway stock at a time when we will start paying this more than a favourable development loan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32429	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Comrade Peric, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32430	Mr. Milicevic, this rarely happens to you, you are one of the very correct presidents, or vice president of the National Assembly. I'm referring to Article 107, Section 1, the previous speaker said there's no one on the other side. I will now be a colleague of Milija Miletic, I am Sreto Peric, a folk MP selected from the SRS list, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who is here today, finally a free citizen. Across the way, so, formally 250 MPs have the exact same rights and obligations. When we run for office, no one is running for MP of office or opposition, but if we formally look at that division on the other side, I guess they think of those who don't participate in power, they don't support the power of me, and it's not true that there's no one there. It doesn't matter how many of us we are. It matters who we are. The question arises whether we talked earlier about the development of the Serbian state or whether we criticised some who are the only ones, and I agree with you, made Serbia quite sick. Seems to me, if I was a student of some university professors, I'd be seriously thinking about getting that degree back. If we keep asking ministers to be respected, to respect this home and to do so, then let's not give ourselves bad examples of how it should be done. Mr. Minister, no one has attacked you today, and here some MPs have defended you and comforted you, against those who have exclusively praised you, their right to do so. Only two MPs spoke the opposite and different from you and did not defile you or attack you, only to show a glimpse of the situation from Serbia and their corner. A colleague, Milicevic, in the day of the vote, of course we will plead whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-11-0.u32431	I thank my colleague, Peric. I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason because I am almost convinced that the previous speaker did not mean you, he referred primarily to those political and parliamentary groups that did not want to participate in today's debate. It is true that the speaker had one broader context of seeing what is the essence of today's debate, and here I am primarily referring to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, saying how important this legislative proposal is and how important good planning is. I have thus understood his presentation and do not feel that it has been maliciously referred to you in any way but I also respect the day of the vote, of course, that the Assembly will plead to the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since this was the last reported in the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts from the 1st to the 19th agenda, this concludes today's work and we continue to work tomorrow, so on Thursday, April 12, 2018, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
