ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-12-0.u45872	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall. They reported their absence today: Duško Tarbuk, Stefana Miladanovic and Prof. Zarko Obradovic. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 14 of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted for -134, no one, no one, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Boško Obradović submitted the title of the Amendment Law. I'm putting this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-12-0.u45873	I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: for-no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: for-no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the Bill of Law, which was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 which were tabled in the same text by MPs of the People's Party Vjerica Radeta, Branislav Mihajlović, Srdjan Nogo and four MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 together by MPs Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2, in the same text, tabled by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet, Branislav Mihajlovic and four MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marjana Marash. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Belacic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dr Darko Leketic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Kenezevic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and four MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 together by MPs Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Joseph Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and four MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjusevic and together Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, the abstentioned, has voted, five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Before we move to a decision on the proposals for the law on the validation of international agreements and the proposals for decisions, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3) of point 6) and Article 105 of Section 2 of point (12) and 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, it decides on the termination of the office of the President of the Courts and shall exercise the electoral authority by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted – two MPs of the people. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Euro-Asian migration birds of water habitats, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – did not vote – three, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I put to the vote the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Transport under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted – two, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on the Conservation of Blind Mouse Populations in Europe, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – two, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2018 as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – one, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted - two, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – one, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, has voted – three, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, has voted – three, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, as a whole. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the MP group "Enough" in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstention – from the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the General Court in Somboro, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, in general. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, he may request, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 4 October 2018, at 16 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 4 October 2018, at 17 hours and four minutes, pointed to injuries. 103rd and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 4 October 2018, at 17 hours and eight minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 4 October 2018, at 17 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Rističević, at a session on 5 October 2018, at 13 hours and 14 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradovic, at a session on 9 October 2018, at 12 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on 9 October 2018, at 13 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 9 October 2018, at 16 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 9 October 2018, at 16 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 9 October 2018, at 16 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 9 October 2018, at 17 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to injuries. 27, 103, 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 9 October 2018, at 17 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 10 October 2018, at 15 hours and five minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarović, at a session on 11 October 2018, at 12 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to an injury. 27, 107 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018.
