ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46069	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, is in front of you today 12 proposals to amend and supplement the law, namely 11, and one is a brand new law, and this is the Law on Construction Products, two framework agreements, one with Azerbaijan, the other with the Government of Hungary, three from the field of construction - the Construction Products Act, amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Law on Law of Law, then the laws of water traffic and air traffic, as well as road traffic. I hope, in fact, that our debate will be constructive. I'll start with the Construction Products Act first. It is a completely new law, and for the first time in a unique way, it edits one of these areas. We did not have the opportunity to edit the area of construction products in the previous period. Countries in the environment, as well as EU countries, have done it and ended it, even some laws and changed it, and we have done it now. Also, I suppose you can remember many situations in the previous period when there were many problems precisely related to the quality and placement of construction products. That's one of the reasons why we started making this bill, which went through all the public debates. We've tried and I hope we've managed to create a serious framework for this law. The most important effects will be, above all, that we will regulate the market for construction products, and that we will enable, therefore, business entities that produce construction products today so that these construction products can place even beyond the borders of our country. I say, Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia, BiH and all other EU members have long passed this law. I sincerely hope that in a constructive debate, perhaps, if necessary, we will improve this law. From the area of air traffic, we have amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act, then amendments and additions to the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water. I'd like to add, of course, changes to the law on the transport of dangerous goods. There was a lot of talk and dilemma about how to make the Air Traffic Act even better. Each of these laws, which I will mention, have one thing in common, which is that these are modern laws, that these are laws that are fully in line with EU standards. It's simple, and the situation is changing, and reality makes us take care of all the provisions of every law we make. The air traffic law was passed in 2015. The papers, first of all, refer to the provisions in the area of planning and building the airports themselves and, as I said, further comply with all the new standards that have emerged. We should also know that, if we are talking about the area of transport, air traffic is, it can be said, a traffic that is fully in line with all directives, standards, not only the EU, but in many things complete with the whole world, which shows the business of our companies, but also shows the number of destinations that we have managed to achieve. We wouldn't be able to do that if we didn't have a regulated air sector. Law on air, rail and water accidents. We had to do a lot more, I think, maybe even before, and I don't think it's ever too late to put the law in front of you MPs, which is that we're dealing with accident research, but we're also dealing with potential problems that can happen. We had a few situations, maybe even witnesses, in public that they were happening. I think the Research Centre will get a lot more opportunities to deal with such issues, even to launch official investigations, but to launch certain investigations before any problem occurs. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. The data suggests that the percentage is growing, so in the very structure of transport, exactly transporting dangerous goods, especially in water traffic. We felt that it was necessary for this bill to really do everything in order to make a modern law first, to bring it into line with all the rules and criteria, and also to protect our transport sector at all times. The next law is amendments to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. There's been a lot in the media talking about this. I want to remind you that this law was passed a few years ago. We had amendments and additions to the law, but amendments and additions to the law did not treat the part relating to taxi transport. In the territory of the Republic of Serbia today, what we have as a record, 17,000 taxi drivers, or taxi carriers, exist. Of course, most of them are in the largest cities, primarily in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. It turns out that although we have prescribed by law that units of local self-government, therefore, cities and municipalities are the ones that will regulate all the details of taxi transport, we have had a lot of problems somewhere in practice, the growth of the gray economy, we have had a discrepancy with some other laws, practically, we have not had all those who deal in any way with taxi transport in one place, or in one law, which is this Law on the transport of passengers in road traffic. We had an unregulated practically taxi market and we had a lot of different attitudes although, of course, the local self-government units themselves needed to regulate the job. We put a few important things in front of you with this bill of law. First, we have detailed the conditions as well as the manner in which and with what approval can even be dealt with by a taxi. We set out, that is, the task of the local self-government units to determine the permitted number of taxi carriers, as well as the price list at which the taxi will be carried out, the setting, so, taximeters per price list and, of course, the service that existed in one completely different law, we simply transferred it to where it belongs, which is the Law on the transport of passengers in road traffic. We've also introduced an additional one, I'd say, communal police duties, but I think it can only help to make this law work better. As regards the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Law of Law, the Law on Planning and Construction is before you with several important points and important changes. One thing, of course, is that compared to 2014, when we passed the Law on Planning and Construction, in 2018, much changed primarily in the area of construction and construction planning for the better than it was in 2014. Then we waited for years for construction permits, so we introduced this 2014 law to issue construction permits for 28 days, then an electronic building permit, we stayed, or ten in the world in issuing these permits, but there were still a lot of things we had to arrange in the area, first of all, planning and urbanism. It happened to us and things happen to us that we don't have plans, that sometimes there are even parts of Serbia that don't have a single plan or that's been waiting for years. This time through the amendments and additions of this law we have exactly limited the time until a plan act has to be adopted, then a licence has been introduced for the processors of the plan, which has also not been the case so far. Another newspaper, I think, important newspaper, is in building an object. So far, we've had, first of all, the issue of big licenses today. Therefore, business entities, large business entities operating on infrastructure and other facilities, of course, with respect to certain and fulfilling certain obligations and criteria, received large licences. But it turned out in practice that it just wasn't enough. It turns out that we have a situation that companies that don't have workers or have one employee, have no equipment, etc., appear, too, at construction sites, are unable to do all their jobs, more gray economy has appeared, and we thought we should introduce licenses for all, so-called. small licenses for those who work any facilities. So, when you do the building, etc., there are also companies that do this, which so far didn't have to have such kind of licenses, now by amending and supplementing this law, if you as MPs adopt it, then we'll also have small licenses. We are also introducing, in addition to the electronic building permit that we have, the electronic catastra we're working on, because we've changed the Law of Preference and Catastro, we're introducing, too, E space. The paper is also a change in Serbia's Engineering Chamber, which I am sure can only contribute and be good. Nothing's been done and cut across the knee, as they say. We've had opportunities for the past few years to look at an institution that issued licenses, educated engineers further, issued licenses, never lifted any licenses, on the other hand they existed and were almost like a state in the country. It was not possible at all to get what was important from the Engineering Chamber, and that is, above all, the quality of work. In this regard, the Serbian Chamber of Engineering, therefore, issue of licences, as well as the withdrawal of licences, will be in charge of the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Civil Engineering, will be conducted a register of licensed members, supervision of the work of the Engineering Chamber, of course, will be conducted by the ministry. I think that's very important. Also, the revenues from the licence will flow into the Republic of Serbia's budget, not into the Engineering Chamber itself, except, of course, for the training of licenses in the process, therefore, the passing of licenses themselves. The president of the chamber will elect, of course, the Chamber Assembly. Since I had the opportunity to listen to announcements now, or certain dilemmas as to whether anyone in the Engineering Chamber would be without a license, allegedly by passing one of these laws, or by adopting one of these laws -- no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So, all those who had licenses, and they had over 70,000 still have their licenses, but we're going to be dealing with what's called a license check, because in practice people have signed many projects, that they're behind many projects, whether they're designers, whether they're performers, and that we have in real life and in practice something else entirely different. So, a project is signed that is completely impossible to realize. The law that is also in front of you is amendments and additions to the Law of Law. Given that we passed this law a few years ago and that we are not satisfied with the dynamics of how this law is being implemented, and that it is necessary to deal with the issue of illegal construction, there are two most important newspapers, but two I consider most important. One is that immediately after the second degree inspection solution in local self-government units can access the destruction of an illegally built facility. We decided to take that risk as a state because that's how we take the risk because in practice there's a completely different situation. Administrative disputes, which often last for several years, then the investor, or contractor, finishes his buildings, sells these apartments, you can't, of course, tear down such a building where you have 10 families that bought those apartments. It's just one example. There's a lot of them. Another newspaper in this law, where we're trying so much more to edit this system, is that there's going to be a so-called catastro. a note. It will not be possible to deal with trade, i.e. the sale of illegally built objects, and this is another way to appeal primarily to citizens of Serbia, of course, to unwitting investors and performers not to build illegally because there is no single reason to do so, since all institutions are doing their jobs, there is a way where they can be built and at what speed all the permits are obtained. I hope the debate really is constructive. Any constructive proposal that comes from you as MPs and MPs in order to make the laws better and even better implemented, we will, of course, accept as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46070	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I expected today that the government would change the proposed agenda and that we would only have one point, the shift of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, the minister of traffic, construction and all that, Natasha, do you remember that, after that scandal that took place two days ago. It was only logical, only rational and only saving for this government, because the longer the government puts up with such a minister, the harder it will be, because it will have to be collectively responsible for everything she has messed up. It is not the main point that she did not react immediately two days ago when her boss, Ambassador Scott, said Kosovo is an independent state and that it cannot be talked about so-called. Kosovo government, the so-called Kosovo. She kept her mouth shut. She's not gonna let the boss jump for her eyes. She's not gonna go public with him. A much bigger scandal is that she, without a government decision, called the meeting with a delegation of the US company Bexter and signed a memorandum of understanding on the construction of the highway from Cačka via Kruševac to Pojat. This highway is vital for Serbia, everyone, has no Serbian citizen who will not agree to build that highway, but we are all in the interest of making this trip as high-quality as possible and costing us as cheaply as possible. According to our laws, a tender must be opened for the collection of offers for the construction of that highway. The tender has not yet been called, and then what is the purpose of signing a memorandum of understanding and co-operation on a project to build a moravian corridor, so it is in the letter. The purpose is to make it clear to all potential, other bidders in good time that there is no need to apply. With Americans, a preliminary number of 800 million has been contracted, as far as I've heard. Perhaps the Chinese would show up with a 750-million bid, perhaps Azerbaijan would come up with a 750-million bid, and perhaps a consortium of Serbian companies with a 700-million offer would also appear. You don't waste time here, you don't collect tender documentation, you can't stand anything, it's pre-arranged that Americans get everything. Do you think this company, Bexter, will come here with that colossal mechanization from America, that ships are being transported, trains, to close the roads until the convoys pass and engage in road construction? No, I don't. She wants to get her hands on the contract, to take over almost all the profits, and then she's going to look for subcontractors, and then they're doing it at a very low price, at a very low profit. So she's gonna pick up the kamak and leave them with a friend. There, that's the point. What are we supposed to do? What to be incorrect about domestic performers, above all, and what to be incorrect about those we have worked with so far, has proved to be valuable, reliable, hardworking. For example, the Chinese built us for 100 million bridges over the Danube Zemun-Borch, and that bridge that Gilas built, and we're about to call the Bridge of General Draža Mihajlovic, cost almost a billion, I guess, not yet finished, who knows how far that's going to go. In any case, four, five times more than the Chinese bridge cost, when you look at the length, when you look at the obstacles that have been overcome, everyone knows that the Danube is an incomparably larger obstacle than Sava, because if Sava was a bigger obstacle then the Danube would be poured into the Sava, and that happiness would go west and submerged Croatia. Right, Arsic? There's something you're looking at. So that's basically what I wanted to say today. At the end of March, I informed the public that Zorana Mihajlovic intends to hand over the monopoly to the Americans over the further construction of infrastructure facilities in Serbia and that nothing was known by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and this is the information being verified, no one has even denied it. Everything I get as information from Anna Brnabic I don't have to check, she always tells me the truth. What does that mean? The Americans felt that Serbia was slightly, slightly, but sensitively coming out of the crisis, this is nothing yet, it has to get a lot more stuck up, and it has to be saved more, and above all, it has to be saved on ministers who spend too much, they are scattered with state money, such as Zorana Mihajlovic, Zlatibor Lončar, as that minister of education, Mladen Sarcevic, can't remember them any more. That's our problem. Even if everything we've said about Zorana Mihajlović has been ignored, and there is a lot of it, soon the book will come out of the press, it cannot perform the minister's function, but only on the basis of what I've brought up with this problem with the poorly planned investments behind which corruption is hidden. Out of the proposed agenda points, I was most drawn to the draft law amending the Law on Lawmaking. You see, three years ago, the law was passed, when it was said -- now it's a point, no new construction, no prosecution, this, that. After that, however, there was simply new construction, and it was seen that prosecution was almost impossible and now threatens to bring it all down. Well, it can't, then we're an extremely unserious state. If you were to strictly implement that law three years ago, then you had to react immediately to the first attempt of illegal construction, and not one building freely, no one stopping anyone, so the other, then the third, then a thousand, then a hundred thousand. So now a hundred thousand people get into a situation where it collapses. No normal country in the world does. You had to make some selection first, what you unconditionally had to crash to determine what it was. These are two houses of Tomislav Nikolic on the banks of the Sava River, in a protected belt, on state land. For this problem you know more than six years and you haven't done anything, because he was your party boss, because he was your official head of state and he has the right to build houses on the water network, at the springs of the Belgrade plumbing. He has the right to pollute directly the Belgrade water line with his own personal, physical secretions, his wider family's secretions and nothing. How do you intend to bring down anyone's house in Serbia without previously knocking down two houses of Tomislav Nikolic? I guess first they have to tear down houses that were never supposed to be on that surface. They're jeopardizing vital social interest, citizens' lives. It's the first category of demolition. Second category to crash there where the state's land is usurped. The third category is to crash where the usurped private property is, if the owner of the country can't agree with whoever illegally built the facility. It's only in the end to see what about those who built on personal property. Did they endanger some vital interest in society, not all of a sudden, so, of course, poor people are chosen in the Zemun field, Ledin and similar places, so they collapse, while Tomislav Nikolic's villas continue to rise above the Sava in a protected belt and embellish the general panorama of New Belgrade. So, you're not meant to speed up law enforcement and licensing to speed up, you're looking at a crash right now. Are you aware he can't do it again? What kind of government dares to take down 100,000 objects at once? You may be destroying a few, yet a poor woman who has nothing to do with state authorities will suffer, or you will choose a political opponent to beat him up in the first place. You say – everything that was built after 27 November 2015. It didn't come down here at all how many of those projects are, did it? I read in the paper that it's about 100,000 objects, maybe more, and you haven't done anything in three years. Well, you can't crash. You, Zorana, as minister, you must be replaced, all your Ministry hastily, because these are leeks that haven't done anything in three years, so that a new minister will come, so that he can make the crash schedule -- this must right away, we'll do this a little later, we'll do this then, we'll do this then, and you can't tear down anything, because you can't tear down Tomislav Nikolic's house. You think you can do it? You can't, you'll see. You wanted to bring some poor people down there in New Belgrade, but we stopped them a few times. The people of the refugees, on their plot walled, so that you would destroy them, and this one usurped the land of the state, and would not destroy it. Even as president of the Republic, he didn't want to crash. Instead of replacing him with the duties of the President of the Republic by the National Assembly, you had a two-thirds majority, nothing, because he can do anything, he can. By their inaction, the inspectors allowed the reawakening of illicit construction and the citizens were not guilty. It's not the citizens' fault, they're used to doing this for decades, they're used to the way the government never mass-depreciated, so they won't do it this time, and they're right citizens. Nothing the ministry or finger moved to create conditions that interested citizens on their plots could build family homes. There is no need for planning documentation, and now citizens should suffer for the ineffectiveness of state authorities and authorities of local self-government. In Belgrade, too, there is no detailed urban plan, since when does Verice, 40 years, tops, 50 years? For 50 years, there is no detailed urban plan. In principle, until a detailed urban plan was completed, no one could build, and imagine that no one had built where people would live? Where would they live, crucify tents? Well, Belgrade was built without a detailed urban plan. The state built large residential buildings without meeting the formal conditions. The whole of New Belgrade is so built. Now you're gonna find yourself smart and capable, now you're gonna seduce the line. You weren't able to seduce him when you passed the law. Why do you keep these lepers around you? Which one of them went out on the field to see something? They fake every day, and if they get to work on time, they don't usually come, they get into some paperwork, right? Here, you take off your glasses, you turn into paper, and you do something, and you don't have any effects. None. What do you say? Say, I didn't hear right? Something Arsic said to me, did you hear? (President: he said something, but I really didn't hear it. You didn't hear. (President: Perhaps in my beard.) I really didn't hear. It's a good thing he didn't hear what he said. You did well. Furthermore, it happens that some of the buildings that are built on usurped land, that is prescribed, is once again a smart Zoran's solution -- for illegal construction, the proper authority. You see, it's been going on for years that the owner hasn't visited his surface, his plot, and someone's usurped. Maybe he lives abroad, maybe he died, didn't complete the desert procedure, and someone comes, builds a building on it. And now it's the owner of the plot that didn't stop it, and your inspectors didn't stop the construction from starting, and there's no answer. Is that okay with you? In a civilized and normal state, he can't. Is it okay with us, 'cause it happened with us that you could be a minister, too, Zorana? It's against all the rules of elemental logic, beyond common sense. You who were at Mladjan Dinkic's party, at Labus who robbed Serbia, who pulled the fingernails out of the people, to be a minister again. God forbid, what Serbia has welcomed. Then you claim later on in the paper that I hate women. No, I love women very much, but I don't like the batons that get their hands on the authorities, so they think they're all saints. Here's the dam for you. You're defended by those whose ranks you'll be in in a month, two days. Here's what's interesting. You can't tell a woman she's a wimp! Here's who's defending you. Here, in whose line you're going, Zoran. (Gordana Comić: How can you!)? Now you Zorani applaud. (Gordana Comić: Shame on you! You shave your mustache first, then come to the session. Furthermore, Zorana Mihajlovic plans to free building land by destroying buildings in designated places for famous buyers. That's the essence of her proposal. She'd like to tear down one day, and the other would want to make it possible for her to build. There's one problem here, that whoever's walling illegally appears on the market with cheaper apartments than the one who's building legally. How can this be solved? This can be solved by effective tax policy. When the tax is paid for the sale of the facility, the one who built the building legally pays less, and the one who built the building paid more illegally than what he did not pay the state all the charges for the building permit, for the urban license, what is paid, there were about 20 items. Well, then, that would be the point, not once to bring it down, so you can give the other one permission to build it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46072	It's over, Mr. Seselj, 20 minutes you've had.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46073	It's not possible. What did Gordana Jomic take from me?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46074	She didn't take anything from you. That's what you talked to her about, but it's your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46075	It took my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46076	She couldn't take anything from you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46077	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. You had to react, or you should have reacted when the speaker used a series of insults in his discussion towards Minister Mihajlovic and Mrs Comic, the MP. What's the point here is, it's not just about whether it's someone's rudeness, but whether or not the gentleman mentioned has, as I would say, the ability to continue to monitor and participate in this House's work, because I don't think he's mentally prepared and good for this debate. He talked about everything but the subject of the agenda. I feel sorry for him, because this is how he showed that he's just not in this time. He had a series of excesses, which he took out in the meantime. It had to, I mean, you should've cut him off. On the other hand, I'm really asking you to prevent future statements like this, creations, and preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: What creatures? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46078	Now, colleague Bozovic, now you have made your entire violation of the Rules of Procedure pointless, because you have offended MP Vojislav Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj: Now punish him. () Absolutely pointless, even if there were good intentions, I don't know what to say. So if I'm to punish a Member of Seselj right now, I'm to punish you, too. Take care of it, I think... Mr. Seselj doesn't need to be turned off, I can hear you from here. As for the part about the part where you advertised the Rules of Procedure, about the insults to your MP group, I've heard you throw, fellow Seselj. I've heard from your MP group. So, always expect that every action has a reaction, and that's something normal in political life, and as far as the minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, believes there's no need for me to defend her, neither you nor anyone else, she's the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and she knows she's taking care of herself. Do you want the National Assembly, in voting day, to declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure? You are not entitled to a replica, Mr. Seselj, on the basis (Vojislav Seselj: How do I not have the right? )......................................................................................................... It's changed a little, when they hurt the Rules of Procedure, I can't give it to you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46079	Thank you very much, nothing new from Mr. Seselj, mostly offensive, we're used to it, but let's try, not to try, but to answer a few things that are, above all, incorrect, not to say they're a lie. It is my duty, in front of the citizens of Serbia, that I do not want to question you, nor can I explain it to you, but since people have heard this, then it is my duty to answer it. To begin first with the memos you mentioned, I would like to tell you that on 4 October 2018, the Government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision on the signing of this memorandum to build a highway from Preljina to Pojat. What you and I agree on is that we really need that highway, which is needed for central Serbia above all. So, before that, it was signed in September of the Memorandum in front of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, between the government, again the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, in further development, possibly potential infrastructure projects, that was September 2018. So, based on the Government of Serbia's decision to sit with the Prime Minister and 18 ministers, a memorandum was adopted on October 4th and it was given the authority of ministers, that is, to me, to sign the memorandum. The way it was signed and if we, as a state, had refused any kind of bilateral co-operation, I would like to remind you that then surely there would be no Corridor 11. Through bilateral co-operation, Serbia is building a Corridor 11 highway with Chinese companies. That means Surcin - Obrenovac works by the Chinese company Sirbisin, based on a strategic agreement, which the Serbian government has with the Government of the People's Republic of China. Well, then, then Obrenovac – Ub, Ub – Lajkovac, is the only thing that has been done, so from the government of Serbia's budget, is now being repaired, the Chinese company is also being repaired, based on the strategic agreement. Well, then onward, what we will certainly start to do, which is from Preljina to Požega, March 1, next year, again with the Chinese company, based on that agreement. So if we refused, we wouldn't have this Corridor, by the end of the year we'd be running 102 kilometers of highway, right on Corridor 11. The government of the Republic of Serbia, not only of these, but of all previous years, I would say that it works precisely on the basis of strategic agreements most, and with the Russian Federation, and precisely in the area of transport and with the People's Republic of China, and with Azerbaijan, and with all international financial institutions, not only with the ex-bank of China, the Ex-bank of the Russian Federation, we also work with the World Bank, the IBRD, etc. So we are too small to reject all those with whom we can, on the basis of clear documents, whose members, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives its consent so that we can say no. As for our companies, domestic Serbian companies, all domestic Serbian companies are included in all working corridors, or any fast-tracking traffic that are being done on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If something contributed to the growth of this country's GDP, it's just traffic and construction, and they say, among other things, that I don't read them, you know that all very well. So I don't think it stands, first of all, it's not true that the minister of traffic and construction and infrastructure in our government has done anything beyond the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, also when you are on the roads between the other and the prices and so on and if someone has offered, has not offered, this is the Memorandum, this is like many other memorandums of some kind of statement of intent, whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will accept the further realization of this Memorandum, whether we will get good funding conditions, it is certainly not something to decide and determine one minister, but rather the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we needed roads, they were needed, and now as you do, I remembered, since you were wanted here, I remembered some sort of concession and I know that you were among other things and for that concession Belgrade – Novi Sad, and I think that you were then Vice President of the Government. So I'm not sure anything was built on Serbia's territory in your time, I'm sure. Then when you committed the Government of the Republic of Serbia, bombs were mostly dropped, and there were no new kilometers. So don't tell us about what this government is doing, so our GDP is very good thanks to construction and traffic. I don't think you're right. Furthermore, you also talked about legislation, in one thing I completely agree with you, which is that the units of local self-government, the inspectors we have in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and I will separate, we have the authority of the ministry, we have units of local self-government, cities and municipalities. It seems to me, and that's what you just said, and that's just that there's been a lot of not-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do. That's one reason, that's only one reason why we wanted to change this Law of Law. This time we tried even more to really do stricter laws, if we could even say that about the law and try to force the whole society to fight the process, or to fight illegal construction. None of the poor, as you say, because it's pure demagogy, none of the houses have been destroyed, but what needs to be brought down, these are the arrogant investors who have been through the laws for all these years and have tried to get through and through this law have not been built or sold these apartments, have made extra profits, and essentially the citizens have remained in trouble. That's why we did it. I see that you have some problem with Tomislav Nikolic, you have to deal with it, but I will also remind the public that you were not with SNS, but with Capic in New Belgrade government. Well, then you didn't bring it down. You could, because that is the jurisdiction, the cottages you mention are also within the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, in jurisdiction, so New Belgrade. (The Faith of Radeta: It's Belgrade. ) Well, usually Serbian radicals are well informed, but this time you're not. So there are municipal inspections and Belgrade City's biggest problem that municipal inspections haven't done their job the right way in every municipality. The change of this law and hopefully other decisions in the territory, i.e. in Belgrade, municipal inspection will be centralised and the City of Belgrade will be able to make different decisions. So I hope, however, that all of us, and of course I'm putting us here from the Ministry, will somehow organize this way to start the whole society, and that means citizens and other institutions, that we're fighting this, because we can't afford to build whoever we want. We've had many years, many decades, many times as a society, and it's time to settle what's called plan building. It's also not true that Belgrade doesn't have a general urban plan, he has it in the adopted PGRs, so that's another thing I'm not...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46080	My apologies, colleague Mihajlović. Comrade Radeta, please, it has not happened that the vice-president of the National Assembly at the table where the chair is sitting and the vice-presidents are getting the minister. (The Faith of Radeta: There's a first time for everything.) I ask you that if you wish to throw away, and I know that all MPs do, why don't you, too, sit down in the messenger benches and do so. (The Belief of Radeta: From here is better heard. If you hear better, you better sit next to me and be behind the minister. Please, if you want to throw it away, don't do it from here. Is that okay? Please. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46081	I'll be brief. When we talk about this detailed general urban plan, it is being built for certain areas, but we all know that there is no problem in Belgrade's territory, in Serbia's territory, building, with all the necessary permits. That's why we've done it all over the past few years, out of location conditions, issuing an electronic building permit, so everyone can build where it's allowed. If we have all this, and all the tools that make it possible for us, then it's really inadmissible that we have illegally built objects. I wish you were a little more constructive after all. Here, until I'm replaced, let's try to be constructive in these amendments and additions to the law, because I know there are always good suggestions coming from your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46082	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46083	The strategic agreement with the Americans is of principle character. There's nothing specific there, as far as I know, or I haven't seen the whole deal. Secondly, this agreement means that Americans are going through a lot of money, and then they set up a condition for their companies to work. That would be normal. That's how the Russians get set up, that's how the Chinese get set up. The Russians gave a one-billion-dollar loan to the railways and said that their companies are doing these jobs, and we're going to hire our firms. The Americans don't invest a dime here. This is where our country provides money. Apparently from the budget. I don't know if you were planning on taking any credits to fund this? And then they show up as monopolies. Well, that's not how it's meant for a strategic agreement. It can't do that. Tea Road also expressed interest in working this section of the highway. And they'll make it cheaper, for less than 800m euros. The Americans circled it, it's about a billion dollars somewhere. We know the experience of Romanians, about 450 kilometers, how much pressure they put on. “Spigl” wrote, it was a big affair, just this company – Bextel. Don't play with it. Tell the Americans - invest. You want strategic facilities, here, we'll sell you a license, do that and that highway, so many years exploit it and then leave it to us. That's fine. Or, under a favourable loan, finance some construction. And not to get us what little we have, so you build up our price and earn extra profit, and you destroy our domestic companies and possibly our sides, which you take as subcontractors. That's how we failed construction firms. We had the best construction firms in the Balkans. (President: You're finishing up, Mr. Seselj. That's what Djindjic first started when he hired Cumet to pave Serbia. One more sentence. I'm glad for everything that's happened. I see immediately which flock Zorana Mihajlovic will fly to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46084	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46085	Thank you. First of all, I really think that ignorance is once a mother of insolence. So I just can't believe that you don't know that, you're a doctor of legal science and you don't have information, and I'm sure you have information, but you're always trying to turn it around, turn it around and make everyone else guilty. Two documents were adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. In September of the month, she adopted the Memorandum you're talking about, about infrastructure projects, with the U.S. government, the framework memorandum... (Vojislav Seselj: Main. I'm sorry, you're a lawyer, you need to correct me, I'm an economist. It then adopted the Memorandum of Understanding on 4 October for the construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway, with Bechtel. So, October 4th, she adopted the Memorandum. So it's not what you call Bextel, it's what you call Bechtel. "Enka" and "Bechtel" work together. So, the Memorandum. Until anything is going to work on that corridor, after the Memorandum, talks on the contract have to follow. And so it is with everyone, and with the Russian Federation, and with Azerbaijan and the People's Republic of China and with, say, Turkey, since we work with all of them in the area of traffic. These negotiations are being conducted – the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Construction, I do not know which institutions and, of course, the other side. So one is the commercial part of the contract, what we do, how much and which is the estimate. Their estimate is up to 800m euros, with river regulation, and the other part are financial conditions. As we have Exim Bank in the People's Republic of China, as we do with the Russian Federation, also with the bank, so are bids from other bilateral companies. (Vojislav Seselj: Of which banks? ) “Eskim, ” if we talk about “Bechtel. ” But here too is the "Exim" People's Republic of China. It's only then that the talks start. Whether or not it will answer to us as a condition or not, in a commercial agreement, because that is our position and that is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is always 50%, at least it must be represented by Serbian companies. That's right with the Russians, that's right with the Chinese, with the Azerbaijani, we've managed a lot more to have represented Serbian companies, wherever they work, and they will, among other things, be doing a new project, which is Ruma-Shabac-Loznica. So we take from them a loan, say, from Azerbaijan of almost 200m euros just for that stock. So these are steps, and we're going to see if any of them are going to be realized at all. When it comes to contracts, so you know it best, it's serious details about every single thing about one time. So there's no need for you to try to turn this around, so you don't attack me further. It's not a dispute, I think this highway should be built, as I think all highways should be built, as I am for that Nish-Pločnik highway, so everyone will say – there's a traitor. But I think it's good for us. Let's know all the steps before we make certain decisions. You say, "Why don't we sell them a license?" I didn't understand that. What license do we sell them, what license to sell them? That's what you said. That's what I wrote down. You'll explain that to me. You also said one more thing, that our construction firms failed. So let's remember when they failed. Let's see what these construction firms look like now, what's the contribution of construction now, last year, this year, compared to the previous seven, eight, nine, ten years? Well, it's not like it's not done and it's not like you're not seeing the results of that work, no matter who's in charge of this ministry. Try to put your emotions aside and whether you like my political performance or not, but let's see what really, really facts are. [[Vojislav Seselj: I have the right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46086	You're right, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46087	We can't exclude competition here and it's prescribed under our laws. You want to establish a monopoly. There's got to be a tender here and let's see whose offer will be the most favourable. The fact that Americans themselves determine our price, so let's accept it, is from that time of Dossmanian rule. Construction firms began to destroy Zoran Djindjic, when he entrusted Kumet instead of our domestic companies to pave the way for Serbia, while Cume registered his firm at a train station in Vienna. It was then that the general collapse of all construction firms in Serbia began. Maybe some have recovered, as far as they're concerned, I don't have detailed knowledge, some have failed completely, but the ones that survived first and foremost we have to make sure they're still working, that they're still making money. To do that, we have to have competition first. As far as the license is concerned, it's not a license, it's a lapus – a concession. So, the concession to sell to Americans to build a highway, to exploit it for a number of years or even decades and then to stay in Serbia. So it's some normal behavior. As far as costing is concerned, the Americans accounted for 800 million, and now 800 million is written with us, it can't. Let's see if the Chinese want it for 750, whether Azerbaijan is 750, whether it's formed by a consortium of domestic companies for 700 or 600, who knows how much they've built up here. You can't, therefore, turn your hand on your back, and you don't need to spin it, but the Serbian Government, and you agree that they are doing something to us, which is incomparably more expensive than others would do, who are interested in it. Now, this is the political economy of Mladjan Dinkic and the economic policy that he and Labus conducted in Serbia together with Bozidar Djelic. That's why Serbia failed. As for the bombing, you know, many of your current colleagues were in the same government. Alexander Vukic was the Minister of Information in the Government. They bombed his cabinet at the top of the government building, purposefully his cabinet and destroyed my cabinet downstairs, I remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46088	Thank you. The word has a representative of the prime minister's proposal, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46089	I'm sorry to be back on the subject of the bombing at all, she can't bring any good thoughts to anyone, I trust you, no matter what you're trying to turn the story around again. But, okay. It doesn't bring a good bombing to anyone, and thank God you're not in the government anymore, because there'd probably be a lot of things. (Vojislav Seselj: As soon as you're out, I'm in. So, like this, I think you live in the past first, because you talk about some other politicians all the time. Come on, let's talk about this government and us running this government. Therefore, if there is any constructive proposal, we are ready to see this constructive proposal. When you talk about competition, I don't understand your kind of competition, but I can still justify it by being a doctor of legal science, and you're not an economist and some other profession, but what kind of selective competition is that? There is selective competition with you, no matter how ghastly what I say sounds. (Vojislav Seselj: What selective? So, selective does that mean we should stop all our conversations with China? (Vojislav Seselj: No. Well, of course not, that's exactly what we did with them. I'm sorry, the People's Republic of China and I made the same direct agreement, we made contracts, and this is the Memorandum you're talking about, and I'm talking about the contract now both commercial and financial. So, for the Obrenovac case, and for Obrenovac-Ub, and for Lajkovac-LJig, and for Preljin-Požega and the Memorandum, they also signed for the construction of the project, just to finish, the project on technical documentation. So do we have to break up with the Russian Federation? Should we break up with them? Well, we did the same thing with them. (Vojislav Seselj: They provided. Do you think it's cheap, did he give us any of that money? Well, no one gave it to us, we're giving it back fat. (Vojislav Seselj: Well, he gave credit. Let me explain, it's the same. Let me just say, it's selective competition. So here with the Chinese we can, and with these we can't. Let's think before that, why did we do it with the Chinese? Why are we working with the Russians? Why are we working for the Azerbaijani? If we hadn't gone to work with all of them, it would have probably been 10 years before we started working some other ways. Before we decide on anything, a lot of studies are done, a lot of projects are done, a lot of percent are done, a lot of analysis is done, so that we can get to what's priority and what we want to do. So, I think we should let the government of the Republic of Serbia, because when it makes its decisions, it stands behind it, to start talking, and whether or not it will be, whether it will be someone else, we will see. Until the contract is signed, these are things that still stand very, very open. That's it. [[Vojislav Seselj: I have a replica, mine must be the last in the region.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46090	Comrade Seselj, you have no right to a replica. Here, for exactly 70 minutes I've been listening to two professors and Dr. Science. One lawyer and one economist. Many of my fellow MPs and I have learned from your discussions and discussions with my colleague Mihajlović. Vojislav Seselj: Must be my last. This time, no. Let us have some ordinary MPs. (Vojislav Seselj: Then according to the Rules of Procedure.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46091	Article 107. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic insults the dignity of the National Assembly and is false. Unlike the Chinese and Russian companies we worked with, they provided finance, and our state authorities and the hired agencies worked on every offer from the aspect of our domestic criteria and checked whether it was actually properly evaluated or not. This Behtal has been involved in various affairs, I mentioned earlier Romania, now mentioned Croatia, 145 kilometers has been agreed to work at 30% higher price than normal, so the European Commission intervened. And in the way you wanted to introduce an American firm to buy Smederevska Jelizar's ban four years ago, now you're doing it with Bechtel on an unprecedented basis, where he'll be counting at least 30% more price than normal. Now that I've spoken to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic, you have the right to answer me, and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46092	My colleague Seselj, I think that my colleague Mihajlovic did not wish to harm the dignity of the National Assembly. She spoke to both you and all the other MPs with respect. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoltan Peck. Here you go. A colleague of Damjanovic and a colleague of Martinovic, continue in the debate hallway, let your colleague speak. (Alexandar Martinovic: A, you have a little session in the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46093	Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers, I would firstly like to talk about the bill on confirming a framework agreement on economic and technical co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in the area of infrastructure projects. As we know, that co-operation between the two countries, the two republics in the last few years have been in all areas at the historical level, and one of the two countries' basic objectives of co-operation is the infrastructure development of both countries. The Framework Agreement was signed in Budapest on 9 February 2018 at a joint session of the two governments. The agreement was signed to improve bilateral co-operation, economic co-operation in the area of infrastructure development. In order for this framework agreement to enter into force and to begin the activities and implementation of this Agreement, it is necessary to pass this law, which is before us. Cooperation with this agreement includes, above all, the management of drinking water and waste water, transport and sustainable mobility, the management of solid waste, recovery and recreation, environmental protection and energy. Cooperation will be carried out through the development and implementation of infrastructure projects, the preparation of strategic and study feasibility, the launch of projects, the modernisation and adaptation of existing infrastructures, the expansion of the construction of new infrastructure, as well as the construction and reconstruction of infrastructure. The agreement further envisions technical assistance from experts, professionals specialising in the training of civil servants in charge of drawing up development plans and other areas in relation to infrastructure projects. On 6 July 2018, the government of the Republic of Serbia appointed its members, the Serbian part of the board of directors, as the Hungarian side has appointed its members. The first meeting of this board of directors was held in July of this year. For the implementation of the framework agreement, the parties will establish a supervisory committee to make up representatives of relevant ministries or state bodies as the respective ministries are already agreed together. The agreement was concluded for five years, with the possibility of an automatic extension to an additional five years, with the agreement of both signatories of the agreement. With this agreement, we believe Hungary has entered a circle of strategic partners in Serbia, as the minister said, China, Azerbaijan, Russia, Turkey, etc. So we support this agreement and, of course, that's why we're voting for these laws that are before us. The second law I would like to discuss was the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on Law of Objects. The main reason for the adoption of this law is to allow for more effective enforcement of the legislation or legalisation of illegally built objects in the Republic of Serbia, given the number of illegally built objects subject to legalisation. According to the Ministry's data, if we are well informed, about 771,000 legalisation requests have been filed in the Republic of Serbia, and following a census by the Building Inspectorate, it has been recorded and it has been found that there are still around 1.6 million illegally built objects that have not been registered before and have not been submitted for legalisation. In total, there are about two million illegally built buildings, of which, if true, 50% refers to residential buildings. What are the concrete objectives of this law? The law should encourage simpler, more efficient, faster and cheaper legalisation procedures, for the owners of illegally built objects to be active parties in the legalisation process, for all illegal objects, unless they meet legal requirements, to be legalised and introduced into legal flows, to further influence the prevention of illegal construction and, of course, the regulation of real estate markets. Important newspapers are that all non-legislative objects in Serbia, as they do not meet the requirements prescribed by the law, will be able to collapse immediately after the second-degree decision, following a decision on the appeal, or on the basis of a final decision, will not have to wait for the outcome of a possible dispute in the Administrative Court. So, as the minister said, in practice, this phenomenon was particularly stated that so far all the lawless builders, even when he refused the legalisation procedure, had started a dispute in the Administrative Court that lasted several years and during the course of the dispute at the Administrative Court, these facilities were not destroyed, but continued construction and investors had built buildings, sold apartments to citizens, and the owners had taken apartments that were not legalized and his care or legalisation had moved on to new owners of the apartments. With these changes, the state is given the possibility that in the worst cases of illegal construction, such as construction on public surfaces in the construction ban zone, such as the "Nikola Tesla" airport, to immediately bring down these facilities at the finality of the solution. An obligation shall be introduced to verify visibility on the satellite recording for all objects that are legalised. So any citizen will be able to make an insight into the satellite footage of the body responsible for the legalisation of the building inspector or the Office of the Catastar of immovableity, and then the obligation to file a tax application for property tax before obtaining a legalisation solution. All legalisation procedures must be completed within five years in order not to damage those citizens who built before the law was passed and whose facilities are not signed due to the failure of the building inspector, they will be allowed to legalise. Finally, the subsequent accession of illegal facilities to public infrastructure is prohibited, and the public undertakings authorised by this authorisation are subject to fines of 1.5 million to 3 million dinars or criminal liability for the re-trial procedure. The next law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on Planning and Construction. I'm just gonna list some important newspapers about this law. Preparations for buildings greater than 800 square meters will be able to be done without a building permit, which according to the profession should speed up the construction of these facilities. A series of united procedures have also been introduced to speed up procedures and thus to cheapen the construction process itself. The creation and adoption of planning documents have been declared public interest in the Republic of Serbia. A time framework for the validity of the urban plan, which cannot be longer than 25 years, has also been introduced with the obligation to bring all the planning documents before 1 January 1993, cease to be valid on the date of adoption or date of entry of this law, but with the obligation to adopt a new plan within 12 months, means within a year. The detailed regulation plans refer to a six-month period. So far, it's been a year. Construction will only be able to deal with companies that have a license. The construction ministry will issue and withdraw licenses to members of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering and will oversee the work of the Chamber, where it will form five parent sections instead of the four so far, and the Chamber Assembly will have 60 members instead of 120. I'd like to set up article 15. Proposal for a law amending Article 36 The law in terms of prescribing the conditions necessary for a legal person to meet in order to produce documents of business and urban planning. So, since 2003, when the law was passed, this matter has not been regulated and in 15 years of practice it has shown a number of weaknesses because the confidence of the design documents was carried out by simple public procurement procedure, where, as a rule, the holders of the plan document did not check the capacity and references of the processors of the planning documents, but as a criterion, they were only offered the time and price. I was the president of the county. Unfortunately, this is true in practice, because we've had a lot of cases. On the other hand, public undertakings established by the units of local self-government also had a privileged position in relation to other legal entities, on companies that are registered in the relevant labour register. So, with the proposed changes and the introduction of a new legal institute, negative practice will be interrupted and legal persons with public powers and private companies will be equated and will also have a positive impact on the quality of design documents. The next law ahead is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Passengers in Social Traffic. The reasons why these laws were passed, as the minister said, are necessary to amend the provisions governing taxi transport. The amendments and additions define the conditions for carrying out taxis that will apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. they will be uniform for taxi carriers throughout our country's territory. In fact, in the latest amendments to the Transport Act in Road Traffic in 2011, the regulation of conditions for the accession of taxis and the determination of whether economic operators meet all the requirements and conditions was in the jurisdiction of local self-government. The transport of passengers is carried out by passenger, so the second change is important for the transport of passengers by means of a passenger vehicle, which is rented by the driver's service, etc. Limo service. This service is inextricably and incompletely arranged by the Tourism Act in the sense that this service is not separated from transport services, and especially because in the register of entities performing the work of the Limo service has never been operated. So there's no such thing as this register. The following newspaper is concerning inspection supervision, that the Republic, municipal and city inspection due to insufficient capacity for the control fee and the Limo service are unable to fully exercise control in accordance with the provisions of the law. A solution to this problem was found, by giving authority to the municipal police. In large cities, this will be particularly pronounced. It should be pointed out that this law which is introduced specifically for the transport of passengers to those with vans seven plus one or eight plus one, which are vans in this law, is designed to use or install this digital tachograph to carry out the service. It means for these carriers, it's going to be a bit of a cost, but we think by introducing this tachograph, we're going to affect traffic safety. Since they're going for major relations abroad, then we think that, in some words, it's positive for traffic safety. As I said at the outset, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46094	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46095	Dear Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the executive government, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been easy lately to be an opposition for the simple reason that it is easier for us to get bad laws. In the last few times there have been laws that are reasonably good. But on this occasion, we get laws that, I say, have raised great concerns, at least in our parliamentary group and concerns about Serbia's development, innovation in Serbia, GDP growth and all things declared as the strategic goals of the Republic of Serbia. In this presentation, I will focus on the draft law on amendments to the Law on transporting passengers in road transport, as it has raised the greatest concern for these matters with us. I will make arguments that make me think that, in fact, not at a valuable level, because we can always agree and disagree on the value, why we think that law produces risks to innovation, investment and future growth in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I expect to get good counter arguments. I'd be the happiest if the minister could convince me with her strong arguments that I'm wrong, but I'm gonna keep a large dose of skepticism that that won't happen. When we talk about innovation at all and when we talk about information technologies in the Republic of Serbia, they are quite clearly defined in a document called the Proposal for a Programme of Work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We call it the Prime Minister's exposé. During these two years in the congregation, I had a love for reading exposés and detailed analysis. I thank one colleague who specifically influenced it that I also began reading the exposés in detail and loving parts of some exposés, although our parliamentary group does not support the government of the Republic of Serbia, we are the opposition. The exposé of the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which is also the Government of Serbia's programme, clearly states: "Digitalisation opens new opportunities for a more quality life of citizens through a greater number of services, cheaper services, more accessible information and knowledge, human integration. Although it is often related to technique, digitisation is much more than that, because it provides a chance for new jobs that are better paid. Digitalization can increase our exports, and most importantly, it's our chance to stop the brain drain and reverse that trend. That's what we're talking about in the experience of our most successful IT companies and the creative industry, which in practice showed us how digitization triggered the wheel of change. Despite the insolent opinion... “ I keep paraphrasing, for these are the words with which only a man who is malicious or completely uninformed, ignorant, will not agree: ”... I assure you that our citizens are already ready for a new digital era" I fully agree: "and according to the latest survey by the World Economic Forum, Serbia is placed in the best third countries in the world at technological readiness and by the number of citizens using the Internet. “ So citizens and the economy of Serbia have a habit of using the Internet. Also, another thing, I was delighted with it when the exhibits were carried out: "This government will work to change the existing paradigm and way of thinking in every segment of society. With the fourth industrial, or digital revolution, we have a chance to catch up with developed countries. That technological revolution will fundamentally change our lives. She's inevitable and unstoppable. Only the winning societies go to meet the changes, no offense to them. I deeply believe that Serbia is ready to lead the region in changes that follow in creating new opportunities for all. I expect that digitisation will improve life. “ Fantastic things. Also, it says in the exposé: "By working on digitisation, we will create a society that gives equal chances to all its citizens. We have a good foundation set up by the previous government and I will lead it by keeping my focus on the set goal, and at the top of my list of priorities will be digitisation and education. “ When it comes to the roots of growth in that same exposé and where there are some good things that have been accomplished, I say again, only a malicious man would say that we do not now have GDP growth, which, unfortunately, is mostly based on the growth in Elektroprivreda and agriculture that last year had a miserable season and growth in construction, which is commendable, but there is still a dilemma about sustainable growth. To return to one key phrase of the roots of growth: "For sustainable economic stability and inclusive growth in years ahead, a continuation of economic restructuring is essential, especially in the part of the public sector, but further improvement of the business environment and the expansion and modernisation of production capacities and the promotion of innovation and development. “ The exposé also says: “We want to create a country that encourages entrepreneurship and that facilitates the opening of a company. “ There is a whole subtitle in the exposé that says: “Employment through the development of innovative entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises. “ It is also quoted as French President Emmanuel Makron, which I deeply support, says: “The digital is not a sector, it is a deep transformation of the way we produce, spend, learn, work and exchange. Our entire social organization is redefined digitally. “ Also, the development of its own products for the world is listed, and this important thing is the development of its own products in the software industry, especially because it increases the strength of the entire economy. It is pointed out that the problem at present is that we do most outsourcing, not producing our own products. Above all, and to end up with an exposé, if I weren't much longer in the exposé than those who supported it, unfortunately we couldn't because of some other things, if it were digital economy, we would immediately support it, the legal framework shouldn't be an obstacle to innovation. The Economic Reform Programme 2017-2019 the years as a key document, based on which our country is run, have also highlighted very similar things. The EU report also discusses issues concerning digitisation, competition, investment and innovation, some weaknesses are highlighted and, of course, the achievements of the Republic of Serbia are highlighted. So, all in all, strategic documents make it clear that Serbia is one of the priorities it has, with macroeconomic stability, with a new education system, are innovation, digitalisation, IT, innovative sectors. And then we found ourselves in a big dilemma when we read the existing law. Namely, the solutions that are present in the law do things that somehow don't fit, and that's why we're very concerned and our concerns are deep. Instead of opening the market to the interest of users of transport, we have a practice of keeping the price of services, limiting the number of service providers, setting unwarranted conditions that raise the price of market entry and disabling modern digital services, thus raising the price of services artificially. And, cost-effectiveness, which is the result of the fight against innovation, is brought down to the end-user. Whenever you have price fixation at a level that is above the market level and limiting competition, the total surplus that is created in one economy is reduced. And our problem, our society, is that we're not creating enough excess, which we have branches with little added value. What is true, when you limit prices, i.e. when you actually fix the minimum price and limit the number of competitors, that you will have a producer's surplus, or that it will be better for those who provide services, but will be significantly worse for users. And when you add those two surpluses to society level, it's inefficient practice. Also, the changes in this law are contrary, which can be clearly seen with the principles of free competition and the programme itself that we have quoted, and in which we will always enjoy quoting, especially in parts relating to the reduction of the digital gap, the digitisation of traditional industries, and on the other hand, it makes it difficult for the entry of new participants, new participants who do these things in a different and better way. The parallel would be, when we finally make fast tracks in Serbia, I sincerely hope that we won't wait long for someone to show up and say – the train can't go 150 per hour, because buses can't go faster than 100. It's a parallel that can be answered. Instead of competition and digitization, we're trying to save old models. These models worked, but if we want to be a winner of Serbia, Serbia which is a dragon, a tiger and everything we can imagine, and that's the wish of anyone who is well-intentioned in this country, so we're going to have to accept that when innovation happens, that someone is suffering somewhere, and that someone is losing somewhere. If we had literally applied these solutions, perhaps still people who are engaged in transport with the help of noble animals, whom we all love, would still be looking for their piece of the market, but not as an attraction of tourism, but as a legitimate transport provider, and saying it is not fair to introduce new actions. It's not just for us to be honest. The moment the e-mail was launched in the United States, the post office of America said - well, we're in charge of it and it was about the idea - well, let's issue e-mail stamps, that we're dealing with it, that it's not going so fast. Fortunately, America recognized the trap of such an interpretation and gave up such a principle. We really understand, in the MP group of the Centre Movement, that the challenge of regulation is one big thing, that it's very difficult to measure where regulation should be, and where it shouldn't be, although we certainly agree that it should be as small as possible and that when it does, it should protect consumers and elemental efficiency and justice, which is the goal of us all, I am absolutely sure of it. However, many countries have found ways to make innovation work. In many countries innovations in local transport work. We can say there's no such thing in Athens, not in Paris, in London, but I'll tell you later why we don't have that option. If we want to be maximum responsibility and build tigers, dragons and Serbia as a winning country that is better than other countries, because it is shown by objective indicators, and they have just begun to show that the path is not bad for us to go. So basically, if a new model appears, the basis is that people are treated equally, no matter what the same things do in a different way. It is the core of innovation. Innovation is doing different things, not doing them the same. She always has winners and losers. We have a sea of examples in the history of Serbia and the world, we have funny examples, as a candlemaker's appeal, we have some examples that are tragic, for example. when competition is, for example, when it comes to the production of peanuts in America. We have tragic examples, I'm going to call back, and in good countries, like the United States, where they've also limited the insurance market, so they have the most expensive health insurance in the world, etc. The point is that nothing is ever prescribed forever, that we don't have to do the same thing, because that's how it is, today we might not be able to use one of the most beautiful inventions that is trivial, they're going to do the same thing, because for God's sake, that's how we killed the business of carriers. And that's true, but we're all better together, and carriers can do better jobs than these. The competition's changing. The nature of the market is changing. Supermarkets sell fuel, and gas stations have a similar range to supermarkets and hit the competition with restaurants. Restaurants offer numerous services. In the world, some pharmacies have turned into supermarkets, all for consumer welfare, and here I say, in order to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The restriction on competition never leads to an increase in value. Whoever is limited from entering the competition has no incentive to inot, and we need innovation as bread. Serbia can develop in the long term and sustainablely if it becomes a dragon of innovation, if creative and smart people in Serbia are innovating, and there are not many examples where we were creative and successful, and that's true. If domestic companies invest, we've attracted foreigners, it's not controversial, but domestic investment is cascaded. Without it, we will have a difficult long-term growth rate of 5-6%, and we need to close the gap with other EU countries. Not to mention the 500-euro salary, but to pay a thousand-euro salary in ten years, and that should be our big goal. We can't if we're killing innovations. If we have domestic companies that offer something different, which has export potential, which appears in other markets, and we say – it cannot in Serbia. You have to work like everyone else. Not good, bad message sent. I know you wanted to introduce order. I know that one group was sad that competitors showed up, but I don't think we can stand on the anti-innovation point. Innovation can be stopped, it is not controversial, but in the end, the market and citizens will respond that it is an unconstitutional process. To return to London, Athens, Paris, where innovations in the area of local traffic have been stopped. They can afford it, with salaries of 4,000 euros a month, they can afford it. Europe can be, as the Asians view it, a lady at her best, an elegant pensioner where it is very comfortable to live. But, unfortunately, we're heading towards being a poor pensioner. And we can't afford that. We have to bite, be innovative, look for a new value, and not make any of our moves that would hinder this process. I like to go back to one thing when I talk about some branches, it's a very dear example. You can tell by that, I'm a little emotional. I love innovation, I love it when we compete, I love it when Serbia wins, when we're better, not just in sports, in everything, when we get praises, and our government gets it. I'm glad when she gets it, not when she's being criticized, but this time I have reason to criticise her, and that's a lot of reasons to criticise her. Do you know who Torking Tom is? You probably know. Most of you have some pills, you have kids and you have this electronic cat. It's called Torking Tom. And that electronic cat repeats what you tell him. Nothing special, you can help him, feed him, one virtual pet. Well, what's interesting about that? Torking Tom was last sold for a billion dollars. These are the two values by which the ‘NIS’ was sold. Then the question arises – will we, in this message, instead of suddenly having someone "Torking Tom" produced in Serbia, hope that we will have good products, such as "Nordeus" when they launched the "Ileven" simulation of football, have good websites and similar things? Is the message we're sending here that you don't need to be innovated or that you need to be careful which innovation is welcome and which isn't? I don't think so. I think we should have a lot of people in Serbia to create new electronic cats because they can be sold for a billion. What's interesting about that whole story when we're talking about an electronic cat? If electronic animals had nationality, he would be Slovenian. So, in Slovenia, it could, it could be with us. We're equally beautiful, we're equally smart, we're equally fond of innovation, we're equally fond of fooling around, we're equally fond of getting along, we're equally fond of enjoying life. So I tell you, we are concerned. We are not malicious, we do not want to be malice, because we respect the will of the people and respect certain things. We respect this coat of arms standing here and we know that you don't have to agree with the government, not even with most of them, you don't have to love her, but you have to respect her. So we say we are concerned about how this will affect future innovators, investment and domestic companies. We are very concerned and we think that the law should be amended and the restrictive provisions that are not in the spirit of competition for innovation should be removed. We will submit appropriate amendments in the hope that this will be done, because we believe that the common interest, again I say, is that Serbia is both a dragon and a tiger and the most beautiful country for business and innovation. We invite you to think carefully about these amendments, because we should not send a message that this is not a good place for innovation, especially for Serbian innovations. This time we were a little bit sharper, but also a little more emotional, but we think that the problem here is such that it will result in bad consequences for GDP growth, for growth in innovation, and that's why we're deeply concerned. I'd like to hear arguments that are contrary and if we need to discuss a little bit, because we believe that the minister is one more than a competent person, and what I know is one of the most valuable persons in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that's why I always take off her hat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46096	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46097	First of all, I'd be happy to answer, but when you talk about arguments, first of all, like this. I haven't heard a single argument that says the bill, and you're saying... You didn't even say what bill it was, but I guess the bill on amending and supplementing the Law on transporting passengers in road traffic, because we had certain groups that appeared all the time and were trying to explain to us how we're going to limit competition. It has somehow become a practice in Serbia. As soon as some interested group doesn't respond to something, then they trick it into another story, and they say, "Here, they'll limit competition, they won't be able to work, we won't be able to develop, social gross product will fall, etc." No, I don't. So, what we did with the amendments and additions to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, we did everything to reduce the grey economy that defacto exists, just partly because many of the activities, i.e. the activity of taxi transport, were carried out without the approval that had to exist in accordance with this law. Therefore, no one limits competition, no one limits digital applications, but you have to have approval, not only in Belgrade, but in any country, the city in the world. You have the fact that there are rules for entering the market in Brussels and Rome. So it is not true that Serbia has now made some restrictions on entering the market. Why are there even restrictions on entering the market? There are, above all, restrictions on the number of licences that are based on the number of inhabitants, therefore, on tourists, on business trips, on everything that one city, one big or smaller local self-government lives in its life. Accordingly, both the number and, above all, the number of licences are defined. What we do, all the big cities in the world do. Nothing differs today from a taxi ride from Belgrade, New York, Rome, Brussels, Athens, etc. Therefore, there is no reason to fear at all in this sense that someone is limiting competition. Also, there's not one association of taxi associations that has a monopoly today, when it comes to cab drivers. You have four Belgrade-led associations with the highest number, twenty-four, excuse me, 24 associations in Belgrade, 60% are entrepreneurs, among other things, in the structure of taxis on Belgrade's territory. So no one has the monopoly that you've been trying to talk about around here. One more thing. I listened to you all the time when you were talking. You talked about everything, about restaurants, peanuts, domestic investment, foreign investment, digitisation, everything, but there was no argument, I'm sorry, which is why you think limited competition is going to lead to a GDP decline, because you said so. So there's no problem with that, we do the same thing the whole world does, we just have to have approvals. Those who did it without approval won't be able to do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46098	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Stevanović, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46099	Thank you. This was a solid exchange, of course. I didn't expect us to agree on everything. I told you what law it applies to, but, of course, in 20 minutes everyone's concentration falls, even I repeat myself in my presentations. So there's nothing controversial about it. So the problem is if you're limiting the gray economy, you're not doing it by limiting the offer. It's just that it's the wrong way. You want to limit the grey economy, give people incentives to go in legally, not limit them. By that logic, I can say that with the same logic, we can limit the number of hairdressers. The same meeting committee says how many people cut their hair, how bald men get to it. You can limit the number of anything. There's a panel of engineers, merchants, and they say it takes that much. But, no, in successful countries, and I am glad that you have repeatedly rejected some uncommunist mantras that have been heard very often in this Assembly and have contributed to consumers being sovereign and they decide their bills as much as we need. Democracy, for example, is great. There's no greater democracy when you vote in your wallet, so when you take out 500, 1,000, 2,000 dinars and so on, each one of us. Perfect democracy. So, competition determines, consumers determine how much we need, not waist. It's very much like the central designs. What there are in some countries, I say - I am aware. We can count the cities. I know where markets are completely regulated, to the evil of God, so here in Reykjavik you can't even use a cab if you're not a rich man, they'll skin you. I also know that in New York you also have "Elevator" and "Uber", to use "Via". Three transport providers. There's competition. It's a question for us, we can have conditions to enter the market, but the question is is is it the right thing to do? Should we have as many providers as we can or should we have one? I, valuablely, but also from the point of view of efficiency, say that it is better to have competitions in different ways to meet the same needs of citizens. (President: Bring the end, colleague Stevanovic. Just one more thing. Thank you for your tolerance, Vice President. Here's the thing, of course, there's no monopoly, but when you set the price, the number of bidders, it's called the cartel, and it's a distortion of competition again, and that's not good. We need competition to be strong, like our athletes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46100	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46101	Just one sentence for everyone, not just for you. There is no problem with working both Uber and KarGo, Jandex is already working, but must meet the conditions of the Law on the transport of passengers in road traffic and must have the approval. The reason why it has to – we want the quality of the vehicle and the driver, we want those people who get out of the cab to have a quality service and that we can control it. So everyone can work, but we have to work in accordance with the law. So far there have been a few laws, a variety of things seem to be, and this is one way to have a regulated market.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46102	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Comrade Stevanović, you have no right to a replica. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46103	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to apologize to the misogues and attacks that you have been exposed to here, and I regret that Serbian parliament has entered a round of parliaments in Europe, you have one report a few days ago, that more than 85% of MPs in parliaments across Europe are exposed to sexist attacks, and I am sorry that such attacks are taking place in the Serbian Parliament, and I remind the chairman that it is their duty to take care of order at the assembly session, that no one here should defend himself, neither of the MPs nor of the ministers, nor of the other guests who participate in the work of the Serbian Parliament. Now I'd like to talk about the 10 points you're explaining today. Unfortunately, this session was also convened in this poor manner, according to a brief procedure. Six items of the agenda are amendments and additions to the laws adopted by emergency procedure. Only two laws have passed a public hearing, the other laws have not passed a public hearing. By reading that explanation that you have also sent, but also by getting some comments, I see that the opportunity has been missed for all interested in this process of public debates to speak their mind and perhaps contribute to some better solutions. We heard, a colleague of Stevanovic talked about this earlier, about amendments to the Law on Road Traffic and the fact that several associations dealing with the IT industry in Serbia have raised objections and asked for such amendments and amendments to the law not to be adopted. But I am not going to repeat now the arguments already heard in the congregation. I also have information that, for example, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air, Railway and Water Traffic, the people of the Centre dealing with this research, and not their direct representatives, were not involved by some people who were called without a decision of the administration themselves, and they could not say their opinions, although they say, the majority of these changes are precisely related to their work. Also, the transport of dangerous goods -- there was no public debate, there were some working bodies, but it is not true what is stated in the explanation that there will be no new costs, that there will be an increase in security because there will be new costs, because some new taxes are being provided, and things relating to security are not now even touched through changes and additions to this law. Of course, the Law on Planning and Construction, that is, the law that had a public debate, and what little you said in presenting the draft legal solutions that are before us today, you were talking about how the jurisdiction of the Engineering Chamber for issuing or contesting licences will now be lifted. Of course, the people of the Engineering Chamber were against it, and of course, as you regretted here, that you couldn't in the past few years force the Engineering Chamber to do what you think it should do, and how you think it should work. This is the first step back to abolishing the chamber organization of professional people. Once again directly now, the ministry is being introduced as the authority responsible for issuing, contesting licenses. It's a step back. You've been trying for years to break the resistance in the engineering chamber that exists to your ideas and your way of working, and since you haven't done it in all sorts of ways now you've applied this extremely harsh and unencumbered way -- you're going to impose yourself as the ultimate body above the body of your profession, and I'm afraid this is just the beginning, that a similar solution will be found for the Medical Chamber and for all others who are not prepared to listen blindly to what the government is doing. People won't listen because the government doesn't do it right because the government doesn't listen to the profession. Many times we talked about it here, as an example of not listening to the profession project "Belgrade on Water". Who were the engineers who signed those solutions there? Where do they work? Where are their licenses? I wish their license had been revoked. Who could have projected such a mockery in the middle of Belgrade? At the very end of the line, I can see that they didn't know these studies by the President of the Republic about the harmfulness of multiple buildings to birth. Probably these engineers aren't good, they didn't know that, so now we're gonna challenge all those who make buildings more than four floors because it affects the birth rate, according to the president. Those things aren't for fun. As construction works in Serbia today, 29 people paid with their lives this year alone. Twenty-nine people have died so far in construction sites across Serbia, one third of which were illegal workers. How does someone do illegal work? And now I come to the Law of Law, which I will speak of most. It was your turn, Deputy Prime Minister, to state the results of the Law of Law that this Assembly adopted three years ago. You were here. I will remind you of your words that you have completed your presentation – this is only the first step to adopt the law, and another equally important step is to apply this law in practice and, of course, our responsibility will be, therefore, primarily me as a minister to apply the law in practice. I'm telling you, we're gonna get this job done. You made that statement three years ago. These are your words. Let's see how you guys finish this job in three years. You gave us information that according to the list that was made in accordance with the Law of Law, that according to that list, it's in this reasoning of the law, two million and 41 thousand, and I've been looking at the data now, this table on the Ministry's website, where there are slightly more than two million and 50,000 objects. But you're not saying anything about how much law enforcement has ended in these three years? Is it true that only 177,000 were completed by August of the month? So, of the two million on the list, you've managed to finish 177,000 in three years. That's less than 10%. Whose responsibility is this now, I'm asking the question here. Whose responsibility is it for the minister if you remember, when the law was passed, you said 770,000 legalization demands already exist and the only thing these people need to do to legalize, since they filed all the paperwork, is to pay a fee of five thousand, ten, or I don't know how many thousands. Never less in history. Is it possible that that 770,000 isn't finished, if they were to pay only a fee in three years? So what did you do, you as the minister who said he was responsible for implementing this law. I'd say you didn't do anything about it. I'm asking a question of your responsibility now. You haven't said a single word here about the results of the law so far. You have not said a single word about how wild it continues to be in Serbia today because you said when you were doing this law, that I do not quote you now, if you are asking me to quote you, that one of the objectives of the Law on Lawmaking is to correct all injustices and incompetence in the previous 18 years, you have been speaking for 18 years, and especially since 2000, how you will now correct all this and how you will end the practice of illegal construction. What's the situation on the ground today? Over 20% of Serbia's construction is illegal. It's built without a building permit that you're supposed to issue in two, three, five, or I don't know how many days, where we're champions on the Duing Business List. So you're not champions, Ramush Haradinaj, your coalition partner is better than you on that Duing business list. Now I ask you, if it's all so great, why is it building wildly in Serbia? In those wild construction sites, I remind you, one third of these 29 people died. Who is responsible for this and what changes do you propose today? Changes adopted by the government at the 11 October session. We are today, the 17th, discussing this without any public debate, without anything. What do you suggest? The first thing you're proposing, now you're suggesting that the whole job that was done by law, that it had to be done by law, means that within a year, this list, which we see is two million and 50,000 objects, is now being thrown into the water, because it doesn't matter anymore. What matters is what's on the tape. In a satellite video from 2015. It's now the basis for law enforcement, what's on the tape. It's very interesting. If we read Article 6 of the current law, Section 4, what does it say about satellite footage? It says so - satellite footage from this member must be available to citizens in electronic form on the website of the Ministry of Construction Affairs. Is that possible today? Is it possible for a citizen to go to the ministry's website in charge of construction affairs and gain insight into satellite footage as a member of the law says? It's not. Here's the minister, when you go to that site, this appears to you "page not faund". It means so much about the transparency of work. So much so that a citizen under the law can gain insight into satellite footage. Of course, you're changing that. You're changing that thing. So what is now the basis for the legislation will not be available to citizens on the Internet, but will have to go to the authorities responsible for issuing the legislation solution and to gain insight there. Is that citizen going to have to pay some tax, that's my question to you, to get a look at that satellite footage? Do you expect us to believe that this is a 2015 video? It's a key question of this law. It's a key question of what's on that video and when it's made, because that video is the only basis now that the legal objects that aren't on the list, or for them there's no application for legalisation, according to those old laws. Why does it matter? That we're just talking straight. In Serbia, some estimates of a million, perhaps up to two million square metres have been built in the last three years, illegally and awaiting legalisation. The money taken for it is between 20 and 50 euros per square. Twenty-fifty million euros, someone wants to give illegal investors to someone in the state to legalize what he built without permission. Do you and how do you open doors to get that money? Not to go into the budget, because the fees stay the same, but to end up in someone's private pockets. That's what our biggest fear and regret for the proposed legal solution is. Also, you're erasing, and you've been very boastful of this provision, you're deleting the obligation that local self-government funds that they get from taxis are used to sort out building land, obtaining building land for public purposes, building and maintaining public purpose facilities and utility infrastructure. That's the attitude that exists in article 33 where money is spent. You are now erasing it, and you were saying when the law was passed – it will not be possible for local self-governments to spend money on salaries but will have to spend on purpose. You're erasing that intention now. So they'll be able to pay, New Year's lighting, singing fountains, masts, and I don't know what kind of nonsense they're all doing in Serbia today. It's a policy that you are now implementing, strengthening and legalizing with this law. Also, what is particularly amazing to me is that these taxes, as you say, are not a problem for anyone to pay, that they will not now pay for the law of the institutions of the organisation and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the authorities of the local self-government, the AP, the mandatory social security and the like. Where is the responsibility for those who built illegal buildings in front of state authorities? What are we talking about here? How is it possible that the state authority is building illegally and having illegal facilities and then not paying a tax on it? That's what you're introducing now. That wasn't before. Now I would really like the answer – do you think this job will end in five years, as you propose in Article 26, amendments and additions to the Law on Law? So I repeat, you've had three years, 177,000 cases solved, and on this list we have 2,050,000. There's probably more in that video, and there's probably something that's not on the video, and we don't know how we're going to legalize much more. There's one on top of Serbia, on top of the Copalnik building facility, and I'm asking you now -- when is this facility going to be torn down? How long will you and Minister Stefanovic play hide-and-seek? To play hide-and-seek if the police were invited or not. He wants to give assistance to the demolition or he won't give assistance to the demolition. For more than a year, that facility there exists, working, connected to electricity, from another state-owned public enterprise, takes on the profession. Who's responsible for that? Could that have been in force by now? It couldn't. How long are we gonna play hide-and-seek, looking for some famous Smederev investor who doesn't show up at all these hearings? If you want to show the seriousness of the state to solve the problem of wild construction, then take it down. Now, by the end of the week, take down that facility. Go around Belgrade a little bit, take down not 500 objects, as much as it's been torn down in these three years, and mostly some sheds, and I don't know what not, but take down, down there on the Starlight, a man on two floors came up illegally five floors. The workers work, I watch the other day, there's no protective equipment, there's nothing. These things can't go through without a serious debate. This debate about the Law of Law cannot go beyond asking a question of your responsibility. You have branded yourself as the person responsible for implementing this law, you yourself have said – I am responsible. You criticized everything before you, that no one knew anything and did nothing and that you would now come and do everything right, and now there is no responsibility. You didn't say anything about how you did the job. By law, you propose that there are no more criminal provisions for those building inspectors who have not made a list programme, and I know that in some municipalities, a list programme under this law has been done in the right way, that solutions have been made for all objects that were not in the legalisation process and which should have been subject to the applicable law, as you have imagined to be legalised, but unfortunately many municipalities have not done so, or local self-government, but you have assumed responsibility. You said, "I'm responsible." I now ask the question of the Minister, Vice-President of the Government – how are we going to measure this responsibility of yours? By expecting you to get our support now? To extend the deadline? In another five years, we've been waiting for the legalization process to end, and I repeat, in three years you've done less than 10%. Without answering that question, this debate can't be over, because you're the ones who should have done this job, you've had all the mechanisms, you've brought this bill yourself, not some predecessor brought it to you. You've been working under this law for three years, and you haven't finished your job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46104	The word has a minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46105	Like this, you said well – we imagined to complete the process of legalising illegally built objects that were created over the past 30 and over years, that's right. At least we imagined and started to realize that job. The number of legal decisions made over the past few years, i.e. from the moment of adoption of the Law of Law, is greater than the previous 25 years. So you're right, 183,000, and listed objects 1,659,307. What was the ministry and what was the ministry's jurisdiction within which it was said, and then the only deadline that existed for the list of facilities, the ministry did so within a year. What was definitely missing and I'm one of those people who, first of all, never gives up, and secondly, I think we've seen from practice where there are still problems. We could have done two things. We could have acted crazy and not changed the law at all and it would still be the way it is and those things where we see that there are problems that we don't solve. I'm not like that, this government isn't like that, I thought we had to try everything to end this process in some period ahead of us. So, this government didn't come into the situation that there were 50,000 illegally built objects, but we established a list of almost two million illegally built objects. Let me get this straight. Nothing cancels out. So nothing's wrong -- turkey dots don't apply to the law that's already been passed. We're just putting in additional ways here, how we want to ensure that what can be mutilated, mutilated, so what's been reported already, and that what can't be mutilated, when we first talk about proud investors and everything that's happened and from the moment the law is passed, that can never be improved and that we can find a way to solve it. When you talk about responsibility, I think everyone here is talking about responsibility, about their rights and their obligations. So, what the ministry and the Serbian government did, we created conditions, that's our job. What was the ministry's jurisdiction was done, even for the object you mentioned, all that was the ministry's jurisdiction was done. This ministry, if we're talking about destruction, so if we're talking about destruction in general, this ministry has done all the inspections in the previous period, 76 facilities in national parks, so because it's our jurisdiction, and it's not the city, it's not the coast and it's not the local self-government of our jurisdiction, the ministry did it. Where there's a problem and there's always a problem, there are inspections, local inspections in most cases, not everywhere, they work great, they don't work properly. So these things have to change. The state and this time new measures within this law that we've put on, it's still not enough, we as a whole society need to know whether we want to solve this issue, or not to solve it. So it's not just a question of the construction ministry, it's a question of local units, local self-government, all other ministries, if we want to deal with it. But at one point, that's a question, of course, and all the citizens, do we want to buy illegal buildings, they're no cheaper, so to be clear, so they cost the same or it'll cost a lot more than one moment when you realize that you can't do any traffic with that kind of property at all. So I think that the amendments and the additions to the laws had to happen, precisely because in practice they saw what additional problems were that we couldn't detect three years ago, which we didn't just know could be problems like that. So, second thing, nothing, but nothing really stops working, because you said nothing now, everything is thrown in the water, etc. The list is finished, what's in the list, so that's what it's done, everything that's created and what's built after that couldn't be legal, can't be legal today, can't even be legal under this law. Then, about another important thing you mentioned, it's the law by amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, the Engineering Chamber. I'm really all this time and I keep choosing words when it comes to the way you organize the Engineering Chamber. What was done in 2003, by your colleagues, I think that Šumarac is still president of the Engineering Chamber, what was done inside the chamber, it was a state in the state, it had nothing to do with the quality, real engineers that really exist and work. About 70,000 licenses exist, since 2003, have been issued, from 2003 to today, two licenses have been withdrawn. And when you mention any city and you're dissatisfied with some project, so talk to the Engineering Chamber. They are the ones who issued or abolished the licenses, the Court of Honor of the Engineering Chamber. What engineers are, individual, not all, because it's not okay, we just have to make a difference between those who are quality and those who are not, between those who have managed the chamber and used the chamber for everything else, and not for what they really are for, which is primarily licensing, professional exams and licensing. That's why we're doing this, because we've been through this period. I, that opinion of the Engineering Chamber, had two years ago, but I thought we should try all the ways to make the Engineering Chamber transparent under number one, because it's not today, and make it a chamber that's really going to deal with the profession and license issue. We've had a situation that the Engineering Chamber hasn't issued licenses in practically a year, but that's why they've been doing politics fantastically, I don't mind, in my spare time, but you know what the Engineering Chamber is and you know what its business is. I'm not going to be personal at all, but it's also a fact that out of all these people, the former minister, so from the Schumartz and all the others, saving those designers who did bad projects, they didn't make them while I was a minister, but just for his time. We've had a situation of complete collapse in licensing, we haven't had the opportunity to look at any transparent incomes and expenditures of the Engineering Chamber. I'm sorry, some things have to be, if we're working everything out, then we'll arrange the Engineering Chamber. I think it's total demagogy and trying to get some political points, that story -- you know, they don't think and do what they don't, I don't know, somebody will, so now the Engineering Chamber is going to be under the Ministry. That's not true. This is the only way it's really going to be professional and independent, not in the way we've had so far, unfortunately. 70,000 licenses, of which is a serious question which the number of licenses should actually have. What I saw in one of the amendments and I think it's a good proposal and I think we should accept it, we'll see, we'll talk about it on the board, is that anyway, if you got the license, no license has been taken away and won't be taken away. But what's the problem with checking the license after five years? What's the problem with seeing if you're really going in, like, a step with time? We now have a situation in practice, so we do so many objects, we happen to have our projectors, who have licenses, don't know about modern other world solutions. They don't know, they've never heard, they've never seen, they've never educated in that sense. The moment they finished colleges and got licenses, that's it. A lot of them. So why don't we check them out? Why can't those licenses be checked? Well, we're building infrastructure projects, so we're building from home? So, we've had situations where projectors sign projects where your roof falls in Baba Vishnino. That designer signed it. Who took that license from him? Never anyone. Who was supposed to do that? Engineering chamber. We have situations where designers sign our basketball halls, where you can't even see the field from the first five rows. Who needed that license to cancel? Engineering chamber. Therefore, stories about the Engineering Chamber, that any kind of policy interference is incorrect. We need a professional body, a body that will really do its job, issue licenses and deal, primarily with professions, not anything else. In the environment, we have the same situation that the ministry is the one that issues and lifts licenses. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I've been longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46106	Right on line, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46107	Thank you. I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister, when he says he has an environment, to say exactly where he is in the environment, and where there is no solution for the ministry, so let's count where he is, and where is there no, let's say, some practice? So it's not a practice for the ministry to replace the Engineering Chamber in the licensing and withdrawal business. It's not a practice. But what you just said, and since you didn't only limit yourself to your ministry, justified my concern that the government's policy, as you said, would be such as to seduce order. Then you'll probably seduce the order, if you can't discipline the Medical Chamber, the Bar and other associations. Do you think you should control everything? What it's like when you control everything, here's what we've seen on this law of law. To go back to him, you were trying here, explaining, to justify yourself, saying – my ministry did everything, the ministry did everything, the ministry did everything. Well, the problem with why we can't stop illegal construction in this country is because there's no response from the state, there's answers from the ministry or it's gone. I agree with you that the ministry can't just, but tell me that, in which local self-government there's a problem and who's in power there? Here, explain to me here in this table, I've been looking at this list of illegal objects, only in Novi Pazar there's a red one, all out of the table, it says 152 residential plus 52 residential objects. What's that red color? Is that the color of some special investor, who needs to be legalized by objects? That volunteerism you're propagating as a government, as a party, at all levels. Corruption doesn't fight at all levels, and that's why we have wild construction today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46108	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46109	That might sound nice to someone who's not being pointed at anything, and I accept that this is a way to be heard by your voters. But voters also know well that you have left two million objects, illegally built objects on Serbia's territory. Nothing can be solved at once, but it's being solved. So, it wasn't the government or the Vučić or the Brnabićkin that left two million illegally built objects, but it was you who did it, and that's the fact. But we have to solve it. And I'm really not giving up and I'm not giving up on it, because I don't think there's any worse things for society, for the state, than to have illegally built objects. That certainly means less revenue in the budget, that certainly means unsustainable development and that doesn't mean a normal way of living, as we all really want to have in every city. I've just forgotten something since your previous address, since I've been looking for that information, and it's about the Duing Business List. I'm very proud of it. And every time you speak to Parliament, you say it's nothing. But I'll tell you one more time and I'll do it again. So Serbia was second in issuing construction permits four years ago. It's also someone left before us. There were construction permits waiting seven, eight and nine years. Serbia today is on Duing Business List 43. Kosovo, so-called The independent state, which you mention, since you spoke of it, is also 40. After the construction permits are issued, Serbia is 10th in the world. Yeah. And that state is so-called 122. Since you are very interested in where Kosovo is, here, let me tell you where Kosovo is. Therefore, do not reduce work and what is important, because it is a matter of developing the whole country, not of developing some political party. As for the Engineering Chamber, once again to point out, you have in Croatia, it is a member of the European Union, so they issue licences, Republika Srpska, Montenegro, so nothing is unusual. I understand that you're trying to protect the former Minister of State. I understand your thinking and why you're answering, but the Engineering Chamber has become a state in the country and, I would say, at some point they've done everything to stop certain kinds of projects. I tell you - we run important projects. In this country, the value of the projects is about 16 billion euros. It wasn't that close when you were in government, or all of your coalition partners. And it is out of the question that anyone in infrastructure projects is causing problems and holding back infrastructure development, because the development of infrastructure certainly means a better life, investment and the growth of domestic gross social product. So you're wrong about saying things about the engineering chamber. As far as law enforcement is concerned, no one's fair, but it's got to be settled. And every time, as many times as it takes to change the law to make a solution, that we don't have illegally built objects, to stop, to make a prevention, I'm here to come, to tell me whatever you want, but to try to make a better law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46110	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46111	Thank you. Mrs. Mihajlovic, this law cannot make a better law. I'll deal with the Law of Planning and Construction and I'll deal with the Law of Law. I must stress that I am a professional and you are, indeed, only visiting my profession, and at the highest level, so my vision will probably be different from what you always and always explain to the citizens of Serbia, as the president of Serbia talks about his dream, about the good life in Serbia, and you talk about this law on planning and building it up with its maximum positive effects. Since I have more than three decades of work in this area, I can quite confidently argue, because seven planning and construction laws have changed, each one has been worse than the previous one, unfortunately, that yours is the worst one. I'm sorry about that, because he's causing us big problems in practice, and I'm not looking forward to saying it right now, I'd much rather he's better, but he's the only one who's managed to break down construction. This has failed each other, to make engineers and construction workers, to increase bureaucratic apparatus in construction services. I have to explain for everyone here, because everyone understands construction very simply, that it's not just a mere mixture of gravel, cement and water, but it's a set of more exact sciences that, in perfect harmony, achieve great success in this area. That's not even a coincidence in this law. It's written as if we actually, apart from simple residential facilities and prefabricated malls and megamarkets, we don't really have any other facilities, something little about public buildings, and all the most demanding objects are classified under the category of engineering facilities, which are primarily these capital investment facilities and are actually capital investments and these infrastructure projects that you've been talking about for a little while. Given that the construction heritage itself represents a way of life of a community's inhabitants, I must say that I notice that through this law written in Serbia at all, it means that the future of Serbian citizens is only to stay in their legally or illegally built apartments and constantly buy in shopping centres and megamarkets, so that privileged investors, led by the heads of state, can gain as much profit as possible. For starters, I have to point this out. There is no quality law on planning and construction until the restitution issue is resolved, until the general substitution of the other replacement property is resolved, until the conversion issue is resolved, until the cadastre is settled, until the land books are paired with the disaster, until the fact and the situation in the catastrophe is resolved. That's not the case. There are no spatial and urban plans that can iron out the inconsistencies of the cataster, which brings us into the gray planning and construction zone, which I think was also the aim of the legislator of this law. Without an analysis of the effects of the applicable law, we enter into its amendment. The real effects in practice are next. In Serbia, there is no more true architecture, no more construction, no more consistent planning, domestic experts are only hired as subcontractors of some similar phantom companies, Serbia lacks 10,500 construction workers, illegal boom construction, public land, unfinished corridors, support walls collapse, 29 victims are on construction sites, traffic collapse in Belgrade due to "Beograda na Voda", unfinished bypasses and an unsolved railway node. Investment urbanism, as is now popularly said, otherwise one serious waste of land of public importance, lush and transfer land of public importance to personal benefit. However, what you are not going to say and what I have not heard so far in any comment, why is this law, whatever it is, any law that is respected better than a law that is not respected, why does it have better effects in the locality than in Belgrade? What you keep in Belgrade, so the City Secretariat acts like a Bastille who holds cases for six months to a year. What land for public purposes, and for whom do you want to preserve? At the bar, it still works better. It works better under Article 133, where the Department's permits are granted. And why does it work better? Because you want to prove on projects that didn't deserve to get building permits, and you're giving them to the Ministry, you want to prove that you're justifying capital investments financed from credit. I could quote a series of projects of this type because I'm doing capital investment right now, and then after all, when we spin the whole story and when the facilities are to be performed, when these building permits are obtained, you're hiring domestic experts to try to fix what those similar in the tender got jobs, because it's known, the object when it's done it has to work. So someone who knows it has to do it. As for these changes, I think this whole amendment, this law aims to facilitate the work of individual privileged investors and groups, especially in Belgrade. As far as urbanism is concerned, apart from cosmetic supplements or erasing suspicious statements, there are no new changes. The paper is the creation of urban projects through which land and public purposes can be defined. Again, land of public silence. The investor will be spared preparation costs, as he will conduct a public exemption procedure from the rest of the land directly through the cadastre. The idea is that through urban projects, public land is being torn apart, and that nobody can convince me that it is not, we see it every day in Belgrade, and it is repacking into something else because it is directly influenced by the ambitions of taking away unbuilt land for public purposes. In order for the citizens to understand me better, I will explain it. For example, land for public purposes is land intended for schools, for kindergartens. However, who needs a school in the new Belgrade bloc, is an example of stopping a detailed regulation plan for the 70a block where the school's parcels are removed and planning to house up to 50,000 square feet of gross building surface. The early public awareness area is over 2,500 objections. Of course, as they will bypass, they will bypass the shortened procedure and a small public insight, which no one will follow the way they should, and so it will be in the 30 block, so for the 45th block and beyond, wherever there is an undeveloped school, kindergarten, it will all be refurbished to the apartment, because there is no financial interest in building a school or kindergarten. The fact that it is needed for Serbian citizens, that we are talking about the birth rate increased, that we are promoting, that we are giving incentives to increase the birth rate, all this has nothing to do with it because schools, kindergartens and mangers are not objects of profitable character. So all they'll be able to do is build housing. The next thing I know about this law, it's that there aren't any problems here right now, it's more of a place for them to be in the provisions of, say, geodetic laws, the Law of Law, if it already exists, because it's the whole introduction of members on land for regular use. If the subject is a place somewhere, it's not a place in this law, and if we already have the Law of Law, that's what we should be there for. The theme is very similar to that of the previous one, and this matrix is going to happen again, I'm going to give an example from practice – I've built a warehouse of several hundred squares, for example on city land, I've paid for legalisation, I've got opportunities, the law has allowed me to do so, so on the subject of manipulative surface and outdoor storage to attach this, otherwise to the disputed facility, another 10, 20, 30 acres or hectare, because how can I actually use the warehouse if I can't approach it, I can't approach it, unload it, so I need a manipulative space. Then of course, all the free area will be urbanized into something and built, which can be good and nice, but if you get the land to use the warehouse, then how can you build housing on it? Who's the one who's got the land to do the facility for a particular purpose, and he can do it himself. So, here in these members, there's no specifics missing about the ban, and I think it's consciously done, because it means if you're assigned, if the owner of the facility, he's assigned land for a specific purpose, he can only do that purpose on that property, he can't self-initiately change his purpose. So, the bans are missing. I'm going to do it again, and I think it was the proposalant's intention. I can't discuss it at all, but I'd rather have the whole day. I don't know how you get these building permits without a direct assessment of the investment of predators and precalculations. Why did it take so many phases, except that this bureaucratic apparatus is increasing and I don't understand why contractors don't work and adapt to their technology. I really don't want to talk about it right now. A few words about the Engineering Chamber, I could have been a member of that Engineering Chamber since 2003, that's almost zero licenses, to say a lot and a lot, but I think it should be a free professional association. It should not be formed as a public enterprise and I really think that if anyone should determine whether or not some licenses will be withdrawn, it means that it should work out 30,000 licensed members of the Engineering Chamber. You said it had 70,000 licenses, that doesn't mean it's the same number of members, because some engineers have licenses on various grounds. So I don't see someone else's body forming, better than 30,000 licensed engineers can think about sanctioning some abuse of profession. If you're looking for the licenses that have been granted in time and where people haven't actually justified these licences, I agree that there should be an audit every three to five years, to see who works here, who doesn't. Most of all, you'll find these engineers in public enterprises. Well, most of all, they conditioned people to get projects for companies that can get a license for their engineers in public enterprises that don't actually do anything and they're separated from the profession for three light years. So bury a little bit in public enterprises, smash those gardens, those people that don't actually do anything. The court of honor, I've already said that and the withdrawal of the license, cannot happen as it suits ministers and the ministry to patch up their capital investments. An example of a CIP engineer with regard to the famous Gredile ravine and supporting wall. These people are sacrificed, there's no dilemma at all. A great injustice has been done to these engineers. They've been replaced by projects, and no one asked them if they could change projects, some projectors were introduced, some impromptu solutions. Last year I asked you this question when I was in Vlad's Han for my job, with a group of engineers. Do you think that's an adequate solution? We've all seen what's going to happen to that supporting wall that's not actually a support wall and it's not an absolutely correct technical solution. And now they have to match the CIP engineers. What? Because they were close to the previous minister. Well, that can't be the reason. For me, Article 145 is very interesting of this law, and I do not believe that it can be considered a responsible state in which investment maintenance of facilities within the borders of the national park and objects within the borders of protection, protected natural goods of exceptional importance, such as carrying out works on investment maintenance and adaptation, be careful now, protected environment, cultural goods of exceptional importance and cultural goods listed in the World Heritage List, by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the object is located. The bypassed Ministry of Environmental Protection, the bypassed Ministry of Culture, and I ask the following – is this your plan for Kosovo that cultural goods of exceptional importance and cultural goods listed in the World Heritage List are not concerned by the Republic of Serbia? Well, we've learned this famous plan for Kosovo that has been kept secret for months. If that's the plan for Kosovo, I don't know what we've been waiting to find out from all of you. So you give up Kosovo through the Law on Planning and Construction and in a very perfidious way. Law of law. A law that illegalizes non-compliance with the National Law on Planning and Construction cannot be supported, because we do not know how to force the authority to comply with the law it makes. The effects of the law have been devastating since the adoption of so far the new 1.5 million objects that have been illegally built. When we add those 2.5 million, we come to about 3.5 million, and if we take the average family as three members, well, it turns out that we all live in illegal buildings, because you call everything residential. Well, that's not true. So there's a lot of objects that weren't just a solution to the housing issue. We've got ski buffets on the bathroom. I don't understand how this problem has not been solved so far and why you and the Ministry and Minister Stefanovic are playing with Serbian citizens. How can small hydropower plants be built in protected areas? What about the protection judges? What about the judges? How can it all be built that way and there? You want it all through this law. This way can't be the way to solve the issue of illegal objects. I understand you've had a state of affairs. I understand that this problem needs to be solved, but this is not the way to solve this problem. So in Serbia, there is no understanding for citizens of order, those who respect the law, and there is understanding for those who do not respect and work, building illegally. So we have senior students, most legalization, and she'll move, because the inspection doesn't do its job. Let's say it once. You're saying in an explanation of the law that you have few inspectors. Why do we have a little inspector? Why isn't the inspection doing its job, why isn't illegal construction being stopped, but we allow, very consciously, we've given people the opportunity to build huge, tens of thousands of squares. You'll have a little more understanding. Item 5 of Article 140. The law on planning and construction can solve some problems. Why is there no increase in tax for an unbuilt facility, for the degree of unfinishedness of the facility, so that I can see who will leave the facilities of 40,000 squares unfinished throughout Belgrade. Let the tax base increase for the degree of incompleteness of the facility. We have a mockery in Belgrade because we have allowed these objects to stand endlessly and extend that legalization indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46112	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46113	Dear representatives of the competent ministry, chairman, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, who follow this meeting of the National Assembly, is being assisted by God to all. I'd like to start by saying what I think is the conclusion of this whole story when we talk about wild construction, when we talk about crime and corruption in construction, when we talk about topics that no government has managed to clearly vote back decades, that there is no crime and corruption in construction without ruling structures, from local self-government to competent ministries. It's actually a question of all the questions I'm starting today. Let's define it the following way. How did there ever happen to be wild construction, how did it happen that when a first Ash stabs into the ground, a competent inspection doesn't come out and close that building site? How did it happen that someone could build the whole building as an illegal object? Anyone who has kept their eyes shut, from competent inspection, to local self-government, to all those in the chain of jurisdiction that have led to illegal construction. So someone in Serbia has been back many years and decades, and it seems to me that today the peak of it has allowed wild construction. So someone's sponsoring wild construction, someone's protecting wild construction, someone's taking a percentage of wild construction, but they're installing a wild building, someone's doing crimes by protecting wild construction. That's the conclusion under number one. A conclusion number two, whenever we have to deal with crime and corruption in construction, whenever we have to stop wild construction, we make a new law that promises to do it, and then three, four years as in the case of the current SNS and SPS government, we don't do anything, we don't knock down any illegal object, we don't bring justice to anyone who did the work of wild construction, and then after three, four years again, we pass a new law, and so we legalize what we did the previous four years. So there's no other argument, except that the government is behind wild construction, that any government so far stands realistically in one way or another behind wild construction. She never wanted to deal with wild construction. None of them ever treated it like a felony. None of them have ever destroyed illegal objects. Well, she didn't do it either, and she had six years' chance. I call upon the Minister to give me an example which you have brought down from illegal wild construction for six years of your authority. Did you tear down the Islamic Community facilities in Novi Pazar that have no permit to build? I will remind the public that Aleksandar Vukic, as president, has publicly said there will be no illegal construction of the Islamic community in Novi Pazar, because he does not want to confrontation with Bosniaks. Watch that statement. So, the President, then the Government denies the Law on Planning and Construction, denies the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects, works against the Constitution and the law and says, we will not sanction wild construction. On what grounds does he have a right? What does that mean, that every national minority in Serbia can build and no one can tear down their illegal facilities because they are a national minority? And what, most people, can destroy the object, because it belongs to the Serb people, and the national minority must not? It has nothing to do with the majority people, nor with the national minority, to understand, it exclusively has to do with the fact that Muamer Zukorlic is a coalition partner of the SNS in power and the government does not want its coalition partner to destroy an illegal facility. That's the whole story. The example works, Mrs. Mihajlovic, why didn't you bring down that symbol of wild construction in Serbia at the top of the Kopalnik? What are you talking about, how are you not ashamed to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today? You are proposing today the law, therefore, of a re-planning and construction law, of the law-making of the facility, and you did not bring down the largest wild object in Serbia at the top of the mountain in the protected area, where never should such a thing be built? It's a question of all the questions. I can give you a local specific example of how SNS MP Marko Parezenović illegally built his aunt's support wall in front of the house, [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46114	My colleague, please, honor your discussion, leave your aunts, grandmothers, aunts, uncles and aunts alone. Talk about the law. Ask for the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46115	Mr. Chairman, I am obliged to set a concrete example when I speak of such a serious and responsible subject. So it's very problematic that after three or four years, we get a new Law on Planning and Construction and a new Law on the Law of Objects, and that nothing for the previous six years has been brought into question by the SNS authorities about wild construction. I'm just giving you specific examples. It's a similar case to the highways. The minister herself has said since 2015 that there is no expert surveillance on highways. Excuse me, and who's responsible? When will he answer? Don't you think he's in charge of your coalition partner, SPS, and you can't call him responsible because he's your current coalition partner? That's the key questions. Here, I'm giving you a concrete new example. Viaduct, a circular route around the town of Cačka, 48 days later revitalization of this viaduct, 48 days from the scheduled deadline. The day before traffic release, full functionality reveals that the three pregnant pillars of the viaduct have been questioned. Where was the expert surveillance? Where was the inspection? Who's responsible? After 28 years of renewed multi-party in Serbia, we never get an answer to a very simple question – who is responsible? It's impossible to be late for 50 days with work, it's impossible to open the next day, that it's all over and that it's all restored, and then you find out that the three main supporting pillars are not working and you're extending the work further and you're introducing complete traffic into the town of Cačak and you're destroying the entire infrastructure of the town of Cačka. Who's gonna pay for that, Madam Minister? Who will make up for the ruined local information structure of the town of Cačka because of your mistakes, your professional supervision, your inspection supervision, your contractors and your directors, say, the Ways of Serbia, who were in the previous and current government and which, simply, no one can change? Who's ever gonna answer? That's my question. Here, in the town of Cačka, you are currently having another affair in this area, and it concerns the construction of a building at the site of an object in the city center, which has a monumental value, where it was the oldest and most famous Chacan cinema "Sutjeska", and where the investor is Mayor of Cačka. Look out, Mayor Chacka is an investor in a single facility. The building inspector who is to oversee the work of the construction is a member of the SNS. The mayor builds one more floor than is allowed under the building permit and destroys a cinema that is no longer in a place where he was through some privatisation that was done in the meantime. So I give you concrete examples of what urban chaos in Serbia looks like. Of course, I'm not saying that it was just your authority that led us to understand each other. I'll be very honest and very objective here. This problem has been going on for decades. He started out with wild construction, when people moved out of the village and came into the cities and started building their living facilities. That's when the wild construction started. There were no urban plans, no adequate building permits. People had to solve their housing problem and so started the whole urban chaos, but here we have another problem. The first problem is urban plans and whether they are being done as the profession requires or pretending to be the investors and tycoons want. That's the first question. The second question – what do urban and municipal urban administrations do, do they do as the profession requires, or how does the party order both party investors and party tycoons to build? Then the question arises what does the Directorate for Construction at the level of local self-government where party directors, party boards and supervisory boards, who also support party firms in the placed tenders and without any professional and inspection supervision, because who is allowed to oversee a party firm, party godfather or brother who got a job in a set-up tender? That's how wild construction starts, so no one can go out into the field to stop them, because they can't stop it because the investor is a local party sheriff, his best man, or his brother, or someone's party firm in power. That's how it starts and that's how wild construction ends through one chaos in Serbian urbanism. Then we come up with a story about construction inspections. Of course, on the one hand you have building inspectors who are corrupt and do not do their job, but on the other hand you have top professionals among building inspectors who are doing their job, who have given who knows what number of orders to tear down illegally built objects. Then where it stands, that's a question that you won't explain to the citizens of Serbia, but I will explain. Serbian citizens don't know that a construction inspector can't take down illegal and wild construction, he can only give a warrant, and then the court is going to approve it in some other step-by-step procedure, and then the police are going to give assistance when an illegal facility is destroyed, and then the city administration is going to set aside funds and through public procurement to take down a contractor who's going to tear down an illegal facility and there's stopping the destruction of an illegal facility. Neither the court, nor the police, nor the city administration will give assistance to the building inspector and bring down the construction facility and you know it well on the case of the Copalniks and wild construction at the top. You can laugh, Madam Minister, as much as you want, but it's not funny. Wild construction at the top of Kopalnik is a symbol of wild construction throughout Serbia. Why don't you knock it down? Well, you can't knock it down. I'm telling you in public -- you can't take down, because you know who's behind it and you know that there are people who are very close to the president of Serbia and various criminal and mob circles in Serbia. We move forward, a temporary utility for the utility and any other infrastructure on buildings that are illegally built. How is it possible for you to connect someone's electricity, water and gas if it's illegal and wild construction? How is it possible when you get a court ruling in the administrative procedure that it's a wild construction, that you don't take away the connection to electricity, water and gas? How can you not tear down that illegal facility you have a court order for? Well, because the police won't, because it's corrupt, because they don't want the judiciary, because it's corrupt, because they don't want the city's local self-government and the mayor, because they're corrupt, to touch their party investor, their godfather, their brother, or, say, their own investment as in the case of Mayor Cuck. Not to mention, now, that we're talking about a set of tenders and how close authorities get jobs and that we're not talking about the key issue of all issues, and that's after a certain investment, of course, I'm talking about investing when the state is an investor, so let's see if that bidder at the beginning, who was in the tender, was really the most favourable bidder, or in the meantime there were dozens of contract annexes, that in the end, it came out who knows which number compared to the one that initially was the reason that you gave that bidder a job at all. When did we have a final reckoning for any state investment? This is the essence of crime and corruption and wild construction in Serbia. I don't know if Madam Minister knows that the state is the largest lawless builder in Serbia? Do you know how many buildings at the state level and at the level of local self-government were built without any permission? The state is behind total illegal construction and the state actually favours, protects and sponsors wild construction. That's the essence of the whole story. The latest you've done is that the technical review committees of the facility you've completed are giving to the investor. Can an investor be his own technical review committee? Can he control himself and then how do those floors get past the building permit? Look, there's not one building in Chačka that hasn't added another floor past the building permit, and someone's mutilated it. Look, someone's mutilated the wild floor and the wild floors in all the wild buildings, specifically in Chačka. Who mutilated it? Who's responsible? What are you doing now? You want to cover all the wild construction in Serbia – the new law on planning and construction, the new law on law enforcement, and to say, it doesn't matter, what happened, it was all what was wildly built during the SNS, for the past six years, it's okay and so you're abulating all of your tycoon and party wild builders in all of Serbia. That this is not true what has prevented you from destroying a wild object in Serbia, one, and not one? What was stopping you? Where's your court? Where's your police? Where are your city's local self-governments where you hold power? So you weren't doing your job. You allowed wild construction. You're behind wild construction, and I'm sure you're also taking a percentage of wild construction. Of course, there's always that method that thieves yell at - hold the thief. It's an old tried-out method that when you want to avoid your responsibility, you transfer responsibility to someone else. Let's see where your responsibility is in the last six years. I'd believe everything you've said today if you could give me a wild object that you've destroyed in six years of your authority. He's gone. There he is at the top of the Kopalnik, still standing as a symbol of wild construction in Serbia. It is a symbol of your false story and false promises of fighting crime and corruption and of some state that will respect some law. There's no respect for the law. Criminals and mobsters close to the SNS can do whatever they want and no one is allowed on the ground to tear down their facility. I don't want to be just criticizing, I want to be very constructive, and I want to suggest some very practical things. For example, we could calculate how much has been robbed so far of contributing to the construction of building land through wild construction, how much has the state of Serbia been robbed, how much has the local self-government budget been robbed because no contribution has been charged to the construction land in who knows what number of wild builders in Serbia. Then let's see how many times the waist has been crushed, how many times have all those who need to ask themselves about professional questions both in urban plans and in some urban ones, so to speak, and, of course, the urban and inspection departments, because simply the people of the profession couldn't ask themselves anything because some boss above them was partially appointed as the director or head of the city's administration to determine what and how they had to do. So how humiliated is the profession in Serbia because of party action. And of course, as far as it's been missed to collect taxes on property, how much tax on property has been paid to this day in general to this wild and illegal construction. In addition, the question arises that some of these compensations that have not been charged for city building land and property tax should be charged to the owners of certain apartments that have easily moved into wild construction because they were cheaper. Wait, isn't that discrimination against those who paid all the debts to the state and that apartments there have to be more expensive than those who haven't paid any debts to the state so they can sell cheaper apartments? So the big question is, why didn't you stand in the way of this lawlessness and this wild construction for six years? And finally, as a concrete example, we have three kinds of wild construction, I would pay attention that we can't treat all three species the same. The first wild building is that decades-old wild construction where people coming from villages to cities built their housing facilities to solve their housing issues. These people should be the minimum cost of legalizing their illegal objects, it's a more decade-long problem, and nobody can fix it right now. The other thing is where people were boasting or simply wanting comfort or being rich, so they built much more wildly than, say, the need for their apartment. There, for example, the price of legislation or legalisation could be higher, when you had higher claims you should also pay a greater contribution to the regulation of city building land and higher property tax, etc. And in the end, those who need to be mercilessly accounted for are wild builders who build housing and business facilities without respecting the laws of this state. How could a multi-story come up without having a building permit? How could a multi-story emerge contrary to the order of a building inspector to be torn down at the start of construction? How could such a business facility ever be completed? Do they even have a valid permit? How many construction facilities are in Serbia today without the permission? These are so serious and important issues. So, ordinary citizens, ordinary people, people who have solved their housing issues are one thing and they need to be given legislation and legalized by their illegal facilities to enter the property tax system and to be generally legalized in this country. But those who boasted, who, through dealings with politicians in power, avoided the law, who thought they could work without building and use permits, who thought they could build and still think because no one was ever prosecuted, that they could build additional floors contrary to the building permits they had to be dealt with. Well, when Madam Minister, you knock down a ten-story multi-story in Belgrade and you say, "This can't be built because I'm a law-abiding minister, and then someone will respect the law and this state and know that it can't be worth it and that because he knows the minister or because he knows the mayor can build walls however he wants." What are you doing in the city of Belgrade with these amendments to the law? Well, you're practically sending every investor to Goran Vesic to approve him of where he can build, how much he can build and, of course, take a percentage for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46116	You're bringing the end of your colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46117	So, the point of the change in Belgrade is to take away also the detached municipalities of the city of Belgrade, the ability to control the construction and transfer it to the central level of the city of Belgrade where Goran Vesic will decide where and how to build it, and to take a percentage for himself and for the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46118	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46119	Mr. Coordinator of the Alliance for Serbia has reported and talks about wild construction, about thieving, about the mafia, etc., and is a member of a coalition where all are thieves and criminals, bandits, the richest people in Serbia and the region. Here I would like to remind Mr. Coordinator of the Union for Serbia what his "political father" said about him, who otherwise hired him in the City Library "Vladslav Petkovic Dis" in Cačka, to be a spokesman for the Chacan Library, what Mr. Velimir Ilic said about Mr. Coordinator of the Alliance for Serbia, said that "father" of Mr. Coordinator as construction inspector in Cačka took money from the owner of wild objects to prevent the collapse. About all this, Velimir Ilic says, there is a record in the Chacan police, it has been reported, but no one has responded. The money is also funded by the political organisation campaign and activities run by the Alliance for Serbia co-ordinator. Mr. Coordinator is in the coalition with Dragan Gilas. Here, you correct me, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is there a bigger wild builder in Serbia than Dragan Gilas? The Alliance for Serbia co-ordinator is in coalition with Dragan Sutanovac. Is there a larger wild builder on the pasture on Vrakar than Dragan Sutanovac? Then a Mr. Coordinator who is in a coalition with the biggest tycoons, with the greatest criminals, with people who have developed a system of setting up a tender like Dragan Djilas, like Vuk Jeremic, like Dusan Petrovic and then giving us moral lessons, about honesty, etc. Later I will continue a little bit more about what Mr. Coordinator is doing and what coalition partners are doing. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) (Bosko Obradović: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46120	You have no right to a replica, colleague Obradovic. (Bosko Obradovic: He calls my father, how can I not? You just said that your father, confirmed... (Bosko Obradovic: What have I confirmed? ) Certain things. The story was about some coordinator. Are you the coordinator? (Bosko Obradovic: So can the father be mentioned? ) You are not mentioned by name or name, nor is your political party even mentioned. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46121	I thank the chairman. I remind you of a member of the 100th Rules of Procedure that you have violated. If you want to participate in the debate, please go down to the bench and help your party colleagues to discuss these truths that Bosko Obradovic has brought here, president of the Dveri parliamentary group. We're already used to when he brings out concrete things, you in the absence of arguments begin to insult the family. You from the pay phone abuse your position and help them. I don't know, that object at the top of the bathroom is one very specific thing. You can tell us about it, you can tell us about illegal construction, or you can answer the calls directly. Since you can't do it because you have no arguments, you're starting to insult your family. I think that by your own personal example you should finally put order into this parliament and that when you stop mentioning family members, I say, give your own example and take responsibility for your behavior and for your actions, then the citizens of Serbia can really have their own real parliament and have something to watch in these transfers. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46122	Please, colleague Rističević, first to respond to my colleague for the injury of Article 100. First, the family mentioned your party president and the president of the parliamentary group. He mentioned fellow Parezanovic and his aunt and some walls. What do you expect? (Maria Janjušević: No, Aunt Vulin... Don’t throw it at me while I’m answering. I listened with patience and respect. I expect the same from you. On the other hand, a colleague, Martinovic, mentioned the coordinator. He mentioned an association that wasn't even registered. Now tell me, where did I break something? Something that's fiction, something that citizens can understand how they want to. I really ask you, if you want to take care of dignity, then you first start respecting the dignity of all of us and all of our colleagues here. And you won't do it by pulling up microphones or holding onto those rules. I'll listen to you, I have nerves for each of you. (Maria Janjušević: Can I answer you? ) You can’t answer me, can you just state whether you’re satisfied with the answer or not? (No) It means that the Parliament of the Days of Votes is to declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure. Srjan Nogo, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46123	Article 107, Chairman. I'm suggesting that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. A colleague of Martinovic, who committed this injury, spoke offensively to another fellow MP. Not only did he address himself in an offensive way, but he also presented false content. We, as People's Messengers, are obliged, first of all, to present the true facts and to bring them forth in a decent manner, which in this case was not the case. Citing Velimir Ilic, he should know that the trial against Velimir Ilic has been brought to an end, where he claimed he had never made such a statement, and the trial against journalist Blic was under way, which Velimir Ilic himself said had invented. Probably not, but we'll see. She will be convicted in that court procedure, so that colleague Martinovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46124	Comrade Nogo, please, I have to interrupt. What are you talking about? (Srdian Nogo: I suggest that the injured member is 107.) Article 107? (Srdian Nogo: The Dignity of the National Assembly.) The Dignity of the National Assembly? And I explain the injury. Do you explain the injury? I really can't understand that if an MP reads something that's a public source, he needs to know it's the case of a court case. (Srdian Nogo: A judicial verdict. He doesn't need to know that either. Here, and I can now ask you a question – if it is a judicial procedure, which is ended by a judicial verdict, to show it. Well, I'm sorry, we can't work like that. And that's not the basis for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What insult? Who's mentioned, colleague Nogo? Who was mentioned, coordinator? I don't understand it's Mr. Bosko Obradovic. That's how you experienced it, I didn't. I didn't experience it that way. (Srdian Nogo: I apologize, colleague Arsic, I have 30 seconds.) No, I'm sorry, please, you. You don't have any more. All you can say is do you want the Assembly to plead? (Srjan Nogo: Of course.) () Of course, it will come out. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103. Mr. Chairman, you have reacted, I appreciate that you are extremely patient, patient and tolerate all allegations of opposition. Parezanovic's aunt doesn't work in the public sector, Parezanovic's aunt is not the head of construction inspection in Cačka, not the building inspector. Construction inspection is an integral part of the public sector. It's a state-owned local machine that's supposed to take care of wild construction. I appreciate you allowing Mr. Obradovic's accusations, but you also have to appreciate what I'm about to say. That's right, Mr. Obradovic is right. People from the village came into town and built a wild building. They came from Vranic, Vranic, from the village, entered with Velja Ilic in "Hydrogradnja", destroyed the company, left people without work and bread, and then Vela Ilic set them up to be the heads of the construction inspection. So there were 60,000 wild objects in Chačka. And according to what the catastre says, in his term, there are 90,000 unlisted objects in Chačka. And then he's right, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, when the thief says -- hold the thief, he did it, and he proved that one of the penetrating cheeks is that you can make vests out of such skins for the largest calibers in the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46126	I don't think I've been in violation of the said Rules of Procedure, because I acted on time as much as possible. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you've violated Article 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of this Assembly and you have failed to make two warnings. You should also give a warning to colleagues Bosko Obradovic and his colleagues, Obradovic, because he mentioned the name of the second MP, and to his colleagues Martinovic because he gave the facts and assessments concerning the private life of another person, therefore, the father of Mr. Bosko Obradovic, which is otherwise confirmed by his colleague Risticevic. I don't want to get into that story what Obradovic said is true, and Martinovic said it's not true, but please apply article 109 and both of you to punish by warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46128	Mr. Vesovicu, it is said to both of us to punish, with the fact that I must note that Mr. Obradovic mentioned his colleague Mark Parezanovic and his aunt by name and last name, and Mr. Martinovic spoke of a coordinator and his father. Now, if you admit that Mr. Bosko Obradovic is the co-ordinator and that his father is a construction inspector on the territory of Cačak municipality and that he may have been one of the chiefs of this department, the inspection, the service, I won't go in, then let's give them notices, but that we know by name and by name who is what and who did what. That's not how I run the session. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46129	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. So that the citizens of Serbia know what this is about, therefore, Mr. Coordinator is the right hand of Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas is one of the largest wild builders in Serbia. How did it all start? It all started with a solution of the Belgrade City Assembly Executive Board of 26 June 2002, you know who was then in power, which houses of land in Knez Viseslav 27, where the house of the Big Brother will later grow, free of charge, to the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad". It was predicted that the "Pionir City" could not lease this property, or work on it without the consent of the city and the body responsible for construction work. However, "Pionirski grad" and "Emoushn", company Dragan Gilas, sign a business-technical co-operation contract on 22 August 2005 to build a "Great Brother" series installation facility. Otherwise, Mr. Coordinator is a major opponent of the reality of the programme in Serbia, asking to shut down television, and his boss, and so on. The coalition for Serbia, in fact, brought us "Big Brother" back to Serbia in 2005. The formal-legal investor was "Pionirski grad" and he committed to providing infrastructure, electricity, water, construction and other permits and, be careful, this is a quote, no moment will lay any right to ownership of the facility. The contract was signed without prior consent of the city and the Republic Property Directorate. What's going on next? The object that was meant to be for children's vacation became a reality show house for Dragan Gilas. The house permit, the reality show where Gilas' company, Emoshan, earned millions...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46130	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46131	... His company only won after the construction was completed. Dragan Gilasa's company "Emosen Sold" built the house in 2005 and won 2,000 square meters with a pool. Gilas's firm took it a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46132	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46133	Take it easy, so the citizens of Serbia know what kind of honesty we're dealing with here. So, monthly, Dragan Gilas of Belgrade, took 40,000 euros from Serbian citizens, and built a 2,000-square-square-square facility. There, now, when you go to "Pionir City", there are rats, there are syringes. That is, therefore, the work of Mr. Coordinator and his boss, Dragan Gilas. I'll keep going, Mr. Arsic, since the material's pretty much there.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46134	Now, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we move on. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46136	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, ministry associates, honourable MPs, we have a serious, say, package of laws in the area of construction and traffic. Of these 11 laws, which are on the agenda, most of them include compliance with standards and EU and new ones, we can freely say, modern technologies and, of course, that some of these laws provide for concrete measures, which I will talk about today. First of all, I would refer to a traffic resort that itself is extremely complex and includes all four types of traffic. Each type of traffic is a complex and complex system. By relying on roof traffic laws, system laws and these accompanying laws, which are now on the agenda, are equally important because they are aimed at improving the safety of the quality of the services they provide. The Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, unlike road traffic, which is the daily life of each of us, water, air, rail traffic for citizens represents, we can say, a means of transport used either as passengers or as users of some other services. The number of accidents, accidents and accidents is relatively lower compared to road traffic, but the consequences of these accidents are far greater. Each of the accidents and accidents in air, rail or water transport has its specificities and therefore comprehensive expert investigations with clear recommendations are extremely important, especially from the aspect and prevention, but also timely responses to all these events. In 2015, we adopted a brand new law that covered these three types of traffic in this respect and gave the basis for the establishment of a Traffic Traffic Traffic Research Centre. This CINS as a roof institution is independent in the work, conducting independent investigations, and in a professional way conducts investigations in case of accidents and accidents. These changes are further consistent with the standards and recommended practice of the international civil aviation organisation, but also a clear understanding of the investigations that will be carried out by the Centre for the Research of Air Traffic Accidents in the future, as well as the possibility of involving international experts in investigations, of course, if necessary. The law aims to identify the cause and the possibility of improving security, prevention and providing security recommendations, and the Centre through its sectors for each type of traffic largely confirms by its analyses how important this law is and all these analyses and recommendations are publicly available. They are available to experts, both to competent institutions and business entities, and can provide new guidance to all to prevent accidents, as well as to respond to institutions and competent services in a timely manner. When we talk about security, the other safety law is a law on the transport of dangerous goods. This type of transport that is linked to the greatest risks to potentially, we can say, the greatest consequences of human health and the environment, and can also cause enormous material damage. Access to this type of transport in the modern world implies international standards for every type of traffic and the existence of a material law at national level, and in 2011 we adopted the then Act on the Transport of Dangerous Load, and with the necessary changes and alignment, we adopted the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which regulates the transport of dangerous goods in road, rail and water transport. This continued the harmonisation of our national legislation with international agreements in the area of transport of dangerous goods and brought in a natural newspaper on control management. The area which suffers rapid and frequent changes in the international field, the majority of the provisions in the amendment and supplementation of the law, is to adapt our legislation to modern changes and changes envision enforcement and compliance with certain national rules, such as regulations governing the protection of ionising radiation, nuclear security and regulations governing further inspection. I would point out that for the economy, it is important to amend Article 75(4) of the Act, which provides for the extension of the time limit for the examination of the vehicle, the issue of ADR certificates, the approval of vehicles to two years, which are most often not fully in line with ADR requirements in type-approval. This change will certainly have a positive impact on domestic carriers, since we are talking about 800 vehicles of a total of 2600 vehicles subject to the issue of ADR certifications and carrying out internal and international transport of dangerous goods, and this delay will actually try to postpone their exclusion from carrying out dangerous goods. When we talk about the transport of dangerous goods, I would also like to highlight the paper in the amendments to the Air Traffic Act, which is a brand new chapter in this law that regulates the transport of dangerous goods by air, which is in accordance with Annex 18 of the Civil Aviation Convention, which will, of course, put certain provisions outside the scope of the provisions and the Transport Act of Dangerous Goods. My colleague, Snezana Paunovic, will talk a little more about this law later. The Law on the transport of passengers in road transport brings two key newspapers. You also mentioned jurisdiction, or powers that change when it comes to municipal police, but I would point out these two key changes. One is Limo service, and the other is taxi service. The explanation sets out a number of reasons why the amendments of these members are necessary. With their decisions, the local self-government unit unfairly prescribed very different conditions regarding the driver and the vehicle carrying out this transport, as well as the frequent occurrences of unregistered entities for illegal work, using different electronic applications, which is from the corner of the user quickly and easily, but massively and without control. It is true that the state must not and should not be against modern technologies and the use of modern models, but when we talk about this specifically, that is not the case, because for this type of service primarily from the aspect of security and the quality of the service provided, but also the economic aspect, it is necessary and there are no claims by colleagues from the opposition when it comes to the use of new technologies. The second newspaper, which I mentioned, is Limo's service. The paper in the law provides, in fact, the paper is the regulation of the provision of services and the rental of passenger vehicles with a driver's service, which has been incompletely and incompletely so far been regulated by the Tourism Act in the sense that we do not separate this service from the transport service, which has led to an increase in the number of unregistered entities who illegally provide transport services to their passenger vehicles. The service providers of Limo service became unfair competition on the passenger transport market and taxis to passengers and transporters in line transport and this Limo service for the first time, as I said, was regulated by this law, i.e. will be regulated by this law, recognised as a public service and all conditions for carrying out this transport will be laid down, the way in which it is carried out and implies sanctions for illegal work. I would also take the opportunity to mention, I do not know if any of my colleagues mentioned it, there is also a framework agreement on economic and technical co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in the area of infrastructure projects. This is another one in a series of bilateral agreements that we have ratified in parliament in the last few years with the Republic of Hungary. All bilateral agreements on ratification, with countries bordering the Republic of Serbia, have special importance for the development of the entire region. The highest regional co-operation can be said to be expressed through infrastructure, i.e. infrastructure projects, joint initiatives and projects and particularly significant, I would refer to yesterday's Summit 16 plus one, how important our position as a country in that format is, not just a position in that format, thanks to the strategic partnership with China, but also to all the capacities and potentials that we, as the Republic of Serbia, have in the region of Southeast Europe. In addition to traffic, I said that in the beginning, construction is one of the strategic most important industries and, with infrastructure and traffic, affects the development of each region. The Construction Products Act, which is on the agenda, is actually the first law we adopt for the first time, and it will in a unique way regulate the construction product market, i.e. to ensure the quality of materials used in construction and will make domestic producers more competitive on the market by prescribing equal standards. The law clearly defines the obligations of actors to place products on the market from production to installation itself with a clear definition and division of liability in this chain. Also, the requirements for placing on the market construction products and the same way of showing performance and the use of the product conformity sign and all of these provisions and all regulations will provide additional incentives for the development of construction in Serbia and contribute to the quality of construction, make it safer and more environmentally acceptable. The amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Law of Law will be discussed later by my distinguished colleague, Neđo Jovanovic. We have submitted, as a parliamentary group, several amendments, which I believe you will consider and we will discuss in particular, and the parliamentary group will support all proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46137	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46138	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and distinguished Minister Mihajlović, with associates, at the very beginning I would like to say that I do not like the relationship that you represent with the proposed laws, or amendments and additions to the law, especially about planning and building, the relationship to expertise and knowledge. In Serbia, 28,400 engineers believe the bill is not good for them. The EU's position is that professional associations should be independent. This law actually does everything to get Serbia's Engineering Chamber under the hat, the intelligence of the ministry you run. If the building ministry controls the licensing of 28,400 licensed engineers, if the ministry has, as you have stated, a license-deprivement commission, you are in some way putting in a subordinate position those who came to their license in a fair way, with knowledge, their expertise and true diplomats. It is people who represent those who have built everything in this country and not only in this country, but also in the republics of the former Yugoslavia. They are now coming into a situation to be politically blackmailed, because by the political decision of the Commission, the ministry will be able to withdraw someone's license, and someone's license to leave. A moment ago, on purpose or by chance, you said one completely incorrect thing, that Serbia's Engineering Chamber had so far withdrawn two licenses. That's not true. She took 16 licenses. And then, secondly, let me say, you've also tried to get the information out to the public, whether, by chance or on purpose, you're fooling the public, is that 70,000 licenses have been issued since 2003. That's not true either. About 50,000 licenses have been issued. What is happening today is that the support that comes to the Engineering Chamber, not only by the EU or the European Engineering Chamber, including Vice President Dragoslav Šumarac, as a major expert and as a regular professor at the University of Belgrade. We have the Slovenian Engineering Chamber, the Croatian Engineering Chamber, then the Macedonian Engineering Chamber, the entire region supports the views of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering, all but you, or your Government, or your party from which you come. Also, I wanted to introduce you to one fact when you were discussing with my colleagues, a country in which the ministry issues licenses, is Montenegro, and there is chaos, when it comes to engineers, when it comes to building and when it comes to respecting laws that need to be respected, so that there is no illegal construction. What is also important is that it is known that you were in charge, as minister for, among other things, this capital project, perhaps the largest in Serbia, we can agree that it is the largest, Corridor 10. When it comes to the Gredelic ravine and when it comes to the so-called support wall that has collapsed, which has been redesigned 11 times, and you haven't known it, and surveillance inspections have been in your hands, you can't say -- they're guilty engineers, and that's why you're punishing and taking away independence from Serbia's engineering chamber and you're putting 28,000 engineers in a position to blame them. What's a fact, is that 11 times by the roads, I suppose, or the Serbian Corridor as a company, the project was redesigned, and then Zoran Babic, who was up to recently here and in the Assembly, as director, said that we expected everyone every day when that wall would be torn down, and then ultimately, it's not a big miracle. But the seven million euros, who's gonna pay for it? Well, the citizens of Serbia in their pockets, and the ministry was obliged to carry out inspection. So, we can't say that they're guilty engineers, we can't say that it's a false profession, on the contrary, they blame the transge-fangs of combinations that happen and in this case, where the corridors pass the Ministry's inspection supervision, they can redesign 11 times what they want. So the largest project built in Serbia, perhaps the most important, most vital, Corridor 10, turns out to have been done against the law, that is, the object of wild construction. What is further is that the ministry, not only will it be able to withdraw the license from Serbia, but it is one of the rarest ministries in the world that will be able to license foreign citizens, engineers. So, our people go to Germany, go live in England and America, and then come from China to get a license from the ministry that you run. That may have been a good idea, but it's absolutely not good for Serbia and it's not right. It's not a relationship with people who didn't deserve it, who were professional and who had the right degrees and the best colleges. What's also important, but absolutely, don't get angry, because I don't want you to feel like you're being mistreated, on the contrary, I think you're a good economist. But it's not enough for you to have a pink helmet and an economic title of science doctors, to take away or license engineers, and to abolish the Court of Honor of the Engineering Chamber. It's something that doesn't exist or isn't consistent with respect for the knowledge of the profession, like it is everywhere in the developed world. Half a million engineers of the European Engineering Chamber, where they are, that is, the association of national engineering chambers, give support to Serbia's Engineering Chamber and it is a fact state. The colleagues who know everything about this area and you who are economists have a different opinion, Europe and European experts say one thing, and you say something else entirely. The second thing I wanted to mention is something that you know has been the subject of our debate for years back in this same House. I'm glad you're here because there's always a high-level debate with you. However, when we adopted and discussed the lex specialis, which was the most devastating law in Serbia and the further democratic development of Serbia, we were then saying that you would put on the side of the law, not only the laws and not just the system laws, which existed today and are valid, but the whole Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it was the project "Belgrade on water" When it comes to "Belgrade on water", not only is it known what we think as an opposition about this project or myself personally or my colleagues present here today, "Belgrade on Water" marked the beginning of the end of respect for the profession, respect for the tradition, respect for all that this city has built in the last two thousand years. Now Article 145, in the 60th of your proposal to amend and supplement the Law, we are in a position to be able to change the plans in walking. You are now spreading what used to be "Belgrade on Water" to all Serbia, you now have this legalized robbery called "Belgrade on Water" that puts the whole country under that hat. You are proposing a Lex special today for all of Serbia, which is not in accordance with the Constitution and which is not in accordance with the system laws. Article 145, Article 60. – The urban project, I quote, can also be designed for building public purpose facilities, for the purposes of determining public interest, without changing the planning document. That hasn't been possible so far. This is how you bypass the whole expropriation law. You can today someone who has a house and their own private salary to take away some of his property, both his house and his pay, and say, "I'm sorry, this is now a public interest, you no longer have the right to this property." This is not in line with the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, such as "Belgrade on Water", so today neither is this proposal amending and supplementing the law. That is why I found it strange at first, and then quite clear why Goran Vesic, for example in Belgrade, is eager to pass this law and adopt this law. Because the roads of the first row in Belgrade began to turn into pedestrian zones, such as Vasya Street in Belgrade, to close the city center, to turn into a pedestrian zone, especially in those places where the interests of those in power, but without building a subway, which was necessary, that the city centre may ever become a cycling or pedestrian zone. So, it's all done hilly-dicky. And now you can change your plans on the walk. What does that mean? It means tomorrow if the Assembly is renovated, no one has the obligation to keep this building and this building in the form in which it was found. So today you can make Skopje, you can peel off any facade, you can take off every roof and glue the pillars of the Corinthian, Ionian, Dorian, various pyramids and make from Belgrade and Belgrade parks and greenery what you taste and your measure. I'm telling you again -- this is a very important area and it's not enough pink helmet to run one of these important areas in Serbia. Even that helmet of yours, pink or pink color, is not according to the law that treats the safety of workers. You're sending a bad message to the workers because there's no pink helmet on the construction site. You even have a rulebook when it comes to that area. What I wanted to finish with was the Law of Law. This is just another announcement of wild construction. Every tycoon in Belgrade and Serbia had information on when you would come to the Assembly and when you would adopt this bill. That's why in the last year, they've rushed as many illegal objects as they can legalize. When you say so, they will never be able to legalize, but you did not say whether they will be able to work. As in Kopalnik, you say that this object will not be legalized, so yes, but it works and earns money. And the one who built that illegal facility, but now he's making money, and you, of course, not only can't, but you're not going to do anything to him. What is very important is that big projects like the Obrenovac-Ub road, like Corridor 10, like many other projects that you so pompously announced, "Belgrade on Water", the Željev Bridge, for example, turned out to be illegal objects. The president opens the Jell-O Bridge, and then the worker dies right after that. And how was the worker on the bridge that was open and finished? So these are the things that are a distraction when it comes to Serbia and that's what citizens see and what citizens condemn. When it comes to legislation, you treat 100 square meters of someone's house where a five-member or six-member family lives the same as a 100-square business facility. The price is exactly the same. And the biggest discount when it comes to legislation is those who have millions of squares. The bigger the tycoon, the bigger the discount. And in particular, not to talk about punishing those not only who build a house to have a roof over their heads, but also those who regularly handed over for a building permit and those who paid all the taxes before this law was passed. With that in mind, we won't vote for your bill. We believe that he is deeply bad and we firmly believe that the citizens in this will only recognize one more intention. For the fourth time in parliament, you failed to solve these problems four times. Now you come and talk to us again. We'll solve these problems. No, we won't solve it. Every day we watch it on television, every day we read in the newspaper how powerless this country is to protect the poorest and those who need help, and actually do everything to provide the opportunity for those who are the richest and those who do the crimes to still have the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46139	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46140	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, says Balsa Bozovic – citizens should know this, citizens should know that. What Serbian citizens should know, that is, and I believe that you, Mrs Mihajlovic, know that the biggest benefit from the project "Belša Bozovic on Water" has exactly because his fiancée, Mia Zečević, sells through her real estate agency in "Belgrade on Water" and garners hundreds of thousands of euros a month. So how are they not doing the "Belgrade on Water" project? They made money on the project "Belgrade on Water". His father, during a period when the Democratic Party ruled Belgrade, created every possible and impossible building around Belgrade, made a fortune on it. He's talking about some illegal construction. Let me remind you, the Democratic Party is a member of this so-called The Alliance for Serbia, whose real boss is Dragan Gilas, the largest tycoon in Serbia and the largest tycoon in the region. The famous Adi bridge, the most expensive bridge in the world, cost Serbia and Serbian citizens 400m euros. The highest road bridge in the world in France cost 160m euros. This bridge in France has a length of 2,460m, at a height of 343m and has seven sawmills, costing 160m euros. This Gilasov, this Balsin, this Boskov, this Jeremic Most, Adi, has a length of 929m, is 200m high, has a pawn and costs 400m euros. And then one of the peri-cens of the Alliance for Serbia came forward and gave us lessons about the poor, about poverty, about poverty. So they left us poor, poor and poor. Serbia today is a country that is advanced. Serbia is today a country that is taking big steps forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46141	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The People's MP Balsa Bozovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46142	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, I find every accusation made by Mr. Martinovic very funny on my behalf. I tell you right here in front of everyone, anything you find on "Belgrade on the Water" that is mine, free to give and take. I say to you: bring down “Belgrade on water” and I will support you in it. Once again, if Mr. Martinovic makes these charges against me and my family, I will sue him, so now I tell you not to cry after one of your five salaries I have to take in court. On the other hand, I just wanted to tell you the next thing, so I'm not gonna pay attention to these attacks. What's important is that this law, Mr. Arsic, I address you, makes it possible for the authorities of the SNS in Belgrade to spend 150 million dinars on one street, reconstructed from 70 metres. Twenty thousand euros per metre, it happens today in the city center, and I came to ask the minister, regardless of what someone is angry about it, I came to ask if the Ministry can or can at all respect the law, to control traffic in Belgrade, because this way Mr. Vesic can close both Brankov Bridge and Branko Street and the whole of Belgrade to turn into a pedestrian zone, again with various insults to my account, which I absolutely don't want to talk about, but 20 thousand euros for one metre, so that gold and diamonds are poured, so it wouldn't cost so much. So, I want to tell you that under this law an enormous robbery of the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade is possible, because it is a disgrace. I refer to it for the best, because I love this country and because I want to stay here, not because I want to answer to someone falsely slandering and accuses that I allegedly have an interest in something that I want to get away from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46143	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46144	Well, that's what you told Mr. Bozovic in the election campaign when it comes to Goran Vesic, so you won 2% of the vote. Before you sue me, you must yourself in that coalition of yours called the Alliance for Serbia to try and see who's talking to whom and who's in charge. Dragan Djilas, your boss, said in 2012, that the monthly salary of Vuk Jeremic, as chairman of the UN General Assembly, is $28,000, and then Vuk Jeremic responded, today you are in the same crowd against Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, then Vuk Jeremic responded – some media have said that the UN General Assembly Presidency will cost Serbia 7.5m euros, even if that were true, that would mean that Serbia could chair the UN for the price of the bridge through Ada, to stress, without access to traffic. He said Jeremic said the sum of 7.5m euros is not true. So why did I read this? To ensure that Serbian citizens know that SNS has against itself today, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, has this co-ordinator, who I don't know where he is right now, this Ljatic, from Cačka, who was hired by Velimir Ilic for the spokesman of the Chacan library, and has this gentleman who made himself rich in selling apartments in "Belgrade on Water", and allegedly is not good with the project "Belgrade on Water". So, because of these things, the state of Serbia was in front of bankruptcy in 2012. Today, the state of Serbia is a state that has over 4.5% GDP growth, we are a leader in the region after attracting investments, in four years we hired over 150,000 people in Serbia and we managed to save the state of Serbia from Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic both from Boško Obradovic and from Balša Bozovic and Dusan Petrovic and from all those who are now in that so-called. Alliance for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46145	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46146	Thank you. You know what, Mr. Bozovic? Everything you've said is a lie. From the beginning to the end. So, every thing, now, are you, for some reason, frustrated, don't you have time to read the laws, what's behind your statements I don't know, but everything you said from the beginning to the end of the bill is all a lie. Well, I'm not even going to say it's not true, but it's a lie, because now in a direct transfer to Serbian citizens, you're explaining some things that you obviously don't know and that you obviously haven't read at all, or you don't even care at all, but you're trying, therefore, to cheat on the public. Now, when you talk about "Belgrade on Water", besides several huge, capital projects, it's one of the best capital projects in our country and it's just funny to be against this project that employs not only construction companies but new people and completely changes the image of so, the future of an even more developed and modern Belgrade. So that's the first thing where you're wrong about not one single piece of information that you normally put out in public about "Booding on water," to tell you every single thing you've said is not true. So the laws are respected in this country. Maybe you're going from yourself to another time when you've done everything but disobey the laws. Well, because you didn't respect the laws because we had what MP Martinovic said now, so we were almost bankrupt, we had the lowest foreign direct investment, we had negative GDP growth. So everything looked at in the area of the economy was down. It's someone who's responsible for it or someone who's responsible for it. I'd say you and your coalition partners, your diverse acquaintances, I don't even know which one of you anymore. So, you and Gilas, Jeremic, there's Obradovic now, whether he's your boss or not, I have no idea, but in any case, so you're all together and how responsible you are for the state we've been waiting for. We've changed things and you may not like it, but if you love your country, and you say you love your country, I guess that's what you should be glad about, not when it comes to us having a really fast growth of GDP, you whistle. I really don't understand it. So, further what's just wrong, the story of the Engineering Chamber, I wrote down what you said, says this - it's a bad attitude to expertise and knowledge. I wish you knew what you were talking about when you were talking about the Engineering Chamber. I would like you to even know what it means to be an engineer in Serbia and what licenses mean, how you get those licenses, or just guard the chair of the Schumarcheva, so Dragoslav Šmarca former minister. At the time when Shumarac was a minister, there is no worse thing to do, there are no scarier things going on in the area of construction in Serbia. At the time of Dragoslav Šmarca, construction permits waited eight years. So it's between the other character and the work of Dragoslav Šmarca. In his time, so you couldn't start any capital projects. Also, one of the reasons is precisely his work, but not to deal with it, the Engineering Chamber should be supervised by the government of the Republic of Serbia because today it has worked projects worth 16 billion euros. We can't let anyone build a private chamber, there's nothing private here. So that chamber is one professional association, an engineers' association that has finished their colleges, got licenses, but what's the problem with once these licenses are checked? What's the problem if everything's done fair and square, as you say. What's the problem is that for five years, we see if people read a piece of professional work, if they write it, whether they did one project or not. I think it's very important that we have quality designers. When you talk about the license number, you're also wrong, so refresh a little information from the Engineering Chamber. License number's next. So first we have 20,289 licenses if we talk about the members of the chamber themselves, according to professions 5,374, according to the parent section 17.877. Since 2003, therefore, according to the information that we have, two licenses have been withdrawn, and ten licenses have been withdrawn, it's not about the withdrawal of licenses, it's about the expertise in the work. When you talk about whether the projects were redesigned, one, two, five, eleven times, so that's what someone was doing. Well, that was some guy who signed it. Well, that's someone who's got a license. Well, how can that happen? Well, imagine, you've never worked in the profession, but let's just say, you've finished law school, imagine you've made a complaint, and you've remolded an appeal eleven times. Well, what would that look like? Well, is that normal? And imagine doing it on projects worth hundreds of millions of euros. Therefore, we must separate what is good from what is bad. The Chamber of Engineering, licensing as well as the Court of Honor will be located at the Ministry according to our proposal for traffic, construction and infrastructure. There are clear criteria that must be met in order to obtain a licence, expert exams that will certainly continue to be carried out by the Engineering Chamber, but also criteria on the basis of which we can run the verification and withdrawal of licences. Furthermore, what I also noticed was that you were saying, capital projects. Capital projects, I think more everyone in Serbia knows what you left from capital projects until 2012, but it's not a waste to repeat, because you seem to have forgotten yourself. So, for the sake of the public of Serbia by 2012, from 2000 and 2002 to 2012, the number of kilometers of railways that have been reconstructed are exactly 20 km, and in 2008, 0 km, therefore, nothing has been reconstructed. Next, in 2009, 22 km, and in 2010, the same 0km. Also, for 12 years from 2000 to 2012 no single cell building was arranged. It's a shame how you left the railroad and how you even left cell buildings and everything that matters to people in Serbia, and that's traffic. About corridors 10 and 11, about the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway that has already started and done part of this government, you haven't moved your finger and then you're explaining to us about capital projects, then you're telling us whether they're good or bad, and you don't even know the difference between good and bad. So, please don't say things that are first, incorrect, and secondly, represent a pure lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46147	Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46148	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Minister Mihajlović, I am not easily offended, first of all, and on the other hand, I never pay attention to them for the simple reason why, I defended you from Vojislav Seselj this morning, when he turned out to be incorrect to you and I will always defend you whenever someone is not correct to you in this home. You are, first of all, a lady and a lady, and for that reason, I will really not allow anyone to insult you. But what you put out doesn't exactly go according to logic. So, you say, 11 times something has been projected, my God, it has to, because it's a big project. Of course it does, but you're the one who's been inspecting and you're the one who's escaped 11 times to issue a building permit, you've been involved in this project that crashed, the support wall, you're part of that support wall that collapsed and that costs seven million euros, which now someone's gonna have to pay, and it's your responsibility, not the engineering chamber. When you talk about Mr. Schumartz, I'd ask you, don't say that, even if you have something personal against him, he's a professor at the Faculty of Civil Engineering. According to professors, according to experts, that's how you talk, it doesn't make a good picture in public. Also, when we talk about 28,000 people who have a license and who have acquired it fairly, they do not need to be blackmailed now and should not be deprived in every way possible of some right that they themselves have acquired. I don't have bosses, unfortunately many here, or Dragan Gilas, or Vuk Jeremic. My beliefs are my bosses, not some individuals, and that's where you and I are different.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46149	Comrade Bozovic, I fully support you in everything you said about professors and doctors, just don't have double standards, because then you also have to respect counterpart Zorana Mihajlović. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46150	Balsa Bozovic seems to think he's the one who can decide which professor someone should respect or not. Of course, he started disrespecting me this morning, but I wouldn't be talking about it if he hadn't mentioned it himself right now. These proposals represented by Zorana Mihajlovic here, we have spoken and we will talk about when it is our turn to talk about it, but it is simply amazing that Balša Bozovic objected to Zorana Mihajlović, that for the fifth time, he has changed this law on the legislation that we are going to talk about, when he, or those to whom he belonged, used to be the authority, had changed the law seven times, and for these seven times nothing has been done. Basic problems in illegal construction occurred just at the time of the government of Balša Bozovic, his dad and other teams that were running around Serbia. It's also widely known. Their officials were illegally building them. The inspectors took the money to the groat. Everything they did was the subject of corruption, crime, and they simply can't do otherwise. Just for the sake of the public, I want to draw attention to the fact that in no way do we defend what Zorana Mihajlović represents here, I said about it in particular, but somehow it bothers the man, we can't listen to Balša Bozovic talking here as if he had fallen from Mars, as if he wasn't a member of that DS, as if his dad hadn't been involved in all those jobs that were dirty jobs at the time when Schumarac was a minister, and everything they did was dirty, everything they did, they were illegal. The source of corruption and crime in Serbia was DS and Balša Bozovica's group, the rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46151	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not offended anyone, I have called upon what the newspaper "Today" for which, I hope we all agree, is absolutely indisposed to Alexander Vukic and SNS. The list "Today" published a text called "The Anatomy of the top DS". Among other things, it's about the so-called. The third echelon of DS. I now quote what the "Today" newspaper says: "We will dedicate a little space to this team, which is in line with the responsibility they are taking over in front of citizens, and vice versa to the economic power they have. Drags behind the scenes, participates in privatisations, maheres are with tenders, hold consulting houses, advise ministers, control agencies, manipulate the stock market and have access to the most sensitive information, take over the media. Dragoslav Zeka Bozovic, also a DS MP, is a business man, a karate fan, best man Boris Tadic and the father of Democratic Youth President Balša Bozovic, stick to Belgrade and say, there are few stronger than he is. But there are them, and among them are the Nikezics, senior and junior. Zvonimir owns Ces Mekon and the boss of Mirko Cvetkovic. Dusan moved from Cvetkovic's cabinet to the finance ministry when he was taken over by the prime minister when he was reconstructed. The heroes of privatisation, champions of the poor Serbian transition. “ This is what the newspaper “Today ” wrote. Now imagine, when the newspaper "Today" writes something like this, imagine what the whole and complete truth looks like about people who represent themselves as representatives of the alternative to Alexander Vukic and SNS. If they write like this today, imagine what the real truth is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46153	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46154	Mr. Arsic, I will use the right to use the time of three to four minutes you've given everyone. I call for breach of Articles 103 and 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46155	You'll have like everyone else in a second.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46156	Absolutely, give me back my time with this interruption of yours. So, Mr. Arsic, Art. 103 and 104. First of all, I have to tell everyone that it's very touching this synchronization of the SRS and SNS, it's touching, but we're not going to pay attention to that, because today it's clear to everyone what we've been telling you these six years that you've changed, you've removed something from the lapels, you've put European signs, but the essences of your policy and everything you're doing is really touching this support of radicals and new radicals. To the attacks of the opposition MPs, and now I speak on behalf of the DS MPs, we will absolutely not react, but you, Mr Arsic, absolutely must not allow anyone, and especially from SNS MPs, the SRS, our families accuse the head of the SNS parliamentary group, saying that thieves and criminals, about me, about Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, any political attack, and that sort of thing is totally inadmissible, and that's one. Two, you learn, and we'll never keep that quiet, because you're not a judge, you're not a prosecutor, you're not the owner of the truth. You are someone who abuses the Rules of Procedure, who muds and criminalises people, not just the MPs and their families, but anyone who dares to speak and think something against every policy. You, by allowing something like this, the Minister is accusing the MPs who are trying to answer the arguments, saying they are frustrated, showing all the impotence with this motility that you have shown in the synchronization of SRS and SNS's views. I'm waiting for an explanation, and then I'm going to ask the Assembly to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46157	My colleague Vidinović, let's get some things straight first. I ask my colleagues to allow me to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so my colleague Martinovic will receive the same right. What about me? And the Prophetess Radeta. First, counterpart Vidinovic, how some MP will participate in the discussion, from which parliamentary groups, it is not a matter of the chairman, but a matter of their parliamentary groups and an assessment of what kind of political gain or damage will have, I will not enter into it at all. The second thing, when it comes to the minister and the laws that have been passed, I don't want to get too much into this controversy with you because I was an MP at the time when that law was passed and I know well who was the authorised representative of the promoter and who wrote the law that regulates the work of the Engineering Chamber. (Maya Vidinović: What are you talking about? Marko Djurisic: That's when you waved a gun? That's exactly what I'm explaining. Marko Djurisic: Before or after? Third thing, MPs have the right... Marko Djurisic: Have you waved or not? Don't say that. So all MPs have the right to indicate if someone was spending or providing public services, why is that a secret? I don't understand. Why is that a secret? In 2012, we passed a new Public Procurement Act, not to be a secret, just to be a portal, just to see who every bidder is and who got the job and what contract was concluded... Marko Djurisic: And you can see everything. And you can see everything. (Maya Vidinović: Replicate to me.) Now, I'm not replicating it, but I'm explaining to you why, you asked me to stop the MPs from talking about how whoever made some money on the basis of being a public service provider or being a public bidder, I don't understand what the problem is. If the job's done properly, what are you hiding behind it? It wasn't that portal at the time, it wasn't known who was getting a job in public procurement, and now you want to make me stop the MPs from talking about these public procurements. You'll never experience it, you'll never experience it from me, whether it's you, whether it's me or anyone else. Marko Djurisic: Are you discussing this? I answer to you why... (Maya Vidinovic: I didn't ask you that, why are you discussing it? Marko Djurisic: Have you teleported anywhere? What's wrong with you? Are you okay? It's really not good for you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Maya Vidinović: Yes. ) It will come out. Marko Djurisic: Do you want to wave at me with a gun? ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46158	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 27. This is the front page of tomorrow's NIN. All the jobs of Branko Stefanovic, the minister's father, trades weapons. So, what I just read about so-called. The third echelon of DS, I didn't insult anyone, this is written by your friends from NUNS, from the Independent Association of Journalists of Vojvodina, from "Today", from NIN, from "Time", these are your friends. You are in the same political front against SNS and against Alexander Vukic. I quoted the text in the list "Today" about you. If "Today" writes so about DS, about the top DS, about the staged tenders, about the robbery privatisations, about the best-born combinations, then I ask the citizens of Serbia what is the complete truth about the rule of DS by 2012 when "Today" wrote these things. This means that you worked a thousand times up, and that's why Serbia was on the verge of economic and financial collapse in 2012. Serbian citizens should know what causes all the economic problems Serbia faces. Your perilous authority, the authority that took care of nothing but your own pockets, your personal wealth, and you came out of that power five, ten, fifty, a hundred times richer than you entered that power. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46159	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46160	I don't know why Maya Vidinovic and this group sitting next to her are complaining. They say you shouldn't let members of someone's family be mentioned. Balša Bozovica's father was not a lawyer in his office, sat down, worked, if it had never been mentioned. He was a high-ranking DS officer. He was the director of the “Tashmajdan” Sports Centre as an DS official and many affairs were in the sports centre at the time. He was, I don't know if you forgot to choose and was the director of some research firm, or the company was called "Serbia Nickel". He, imagine, was the lawyer at the head of a company that was investigating ore in Serbia, so they were causing problems with Kusturica in Wetgora, so this Alexic, who is now with them in the coalition, said he would not allow them to come to Triestenik to investigate anything there. So we're talking about someone who participated in the destruction of Serbia, which is Balsha's father by chance. That's Balsha's problem. If there's anything he should be ashamed of, then he should be. So no one can ban the MPs from talking about any official. How now, what, we won't because they're in this group now, gathered from the stakes and the ropes, no one can say it's a group of the biggest criminals and thieves, Đilas, Jeremic, Borko, Stamatovic, my people, my whole Serbia knows what they've been doing and what they're doing today. Now I need to hide it from the public because, God, Maja Vidinović was shaken, she was moved by some story she was listening to here. That touching, shaken, etc., has nothing to do with the work of the National Assembly. That's why they serve little diazepams. Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46161	Comrade Radeta, do you want the Parliament to declare in the day of voting that it is affecting the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) No, no, no, Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46162	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 27. We should have the same archaics according to all MPs, and that analogy applies things to members of the government. On several occasions, the government's representative, in this case the Deputy Prime Minister, has treated the MPs in this assembly with impudence and impudence. He has repeatedly called here colleagues and colleagues ignorant, people who lie, people who don't know the job, etc. You didn't react once, you didn't react once. You didn't react even when MPs don't treat each other with respect, but you especially have an archaic when it comes to government members. How long are we going to put up with torture from government officials here? Who are the other members of the government? The people elected by this parliament, the people voted for by MPs, and now these same MPs or part of the MPs are experiencing the biggest insults by the Deputy Prime Minister, in this case, Zorana Mihajlovic. Who is Zorana Mihajlović? What right does she have? Is she privileged, is she privileged because she's good with that Scott or some bastard, so you can't or any other reason? We don't care about that. You must have the same archaic. And when MPs address one another with disrespect, you must act. A colleague here says there's some synchronization between the SRS and the SNS. She forgot, poor thing, that she and her party were involved in the establishment of the SNS. She forgot that she belonged to a party that sat on the cannabis at Slobodan Milosevic's. She forgot they ate roast ox at the Palace. They forgot all that, and now they want to artificially create synchronization between us and the SNS. We separated years ago with their support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46163	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Let me answer you right now. As you honor the minister or the minister, call whatever you want, so honor yourself, is that the MP... Milorad Mircic: It is not the same. My friend Mircic, you called your colleague a poor girl. Milorad Mircic: Pejorative. What about peorative? Well, well, then the minister was a pessimist. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the subject of wild construction and who was all involved in this wild construction. I see that one party that has entered the alliance of thieves, frauds, frauds, peljesanovic, as from Davidovic, via Grol, Pekic, Micunovic, Čavosko, has reached the young man of the combined graduate Bonafides lawyer from Maldiv, who, like this, flies for 30,000 euros, but flies in winter, because it is more expensive there. (Balsa Bozovic: Now, I will sue you for this. Here, she'll sue. Here, people, they're gonna sue. Here, people this shows you the quality of "Bonafides" lawyers. Tell me which other lawyer might think, here, Mrs. Radeta knows, which other lawyer might think that an MP should answer in court for an opinion delivered when performing his post? Only Sasa Radulovic can do that, i.e. I was called three times, eventually released, perhaps at Pajkic's place he can do anything, since in 2009, they established the court of their party. Well, when some prosecutor doesn't like it, then the rule of law by calling that prosecutor once ten times, it's called political pressure in the country, and in these combined Bonafides lawyers, it's probably called desirable pressure, yellow pressure. The largest wild construction in which they participated is the wild state of Kosovo. They actively participated, not only was the investor, U.S.A., Scott, and who represented them all, but the contractors did. One of the contractors was the former regime party. She moaned and prayed in 2008 -- postpone, postpone Kosovo's independence declaration with Americans, only to have Boris Tadic elected, so she can, as it happens. Wild construction and their participation in this wild construction were completed by Boris Tadic, it seems to me, on February 14, 15th, and the 17th was declared a wild state of Kosovo and Metohija. It's the biggest wild building they've ever been involved in. Another wild construction, to remind this "Bonafides" lawyer, combined, he is not being in "Bonafides" finished, there are professors who did not want to sign it, that's in this Vodnelicka, which was at Zivkovic's, so I call her a winemaker. It's over there, he's combined. It's a unique specimen. A combined state-owned private lawyer from Bonafides. Here, let him sue me for that, too. There's evidence that he did it. As there is evidence that the life companion they were talking about, not to mention the name, is a co-invester of the Shutanovite in the pasture. Here I am saying, let him sue me, that I am his life companion co-investor of those famous pasture investments. Here, let him sue me. Yeah, that one. Here, I'll repeat that even outside the O.R. so he can sue me. Here, I say there are them. The next wild building is called the Ada Bridge. That when these, what they ruled, were Martians, the Martians yellow, when they ruled this country. And now they're, now they're sore at us that we don't solve the problems they left behind any faster. They are the ones who advocate the project "Belgrade on Water", the fountain in Slavija, so when they did not, then someone else did, they are against it. In fact, what "Belgrade on Water" when they were for Belgrade in the fog, finely chopped and sold to the people, blood sucked on a straw, and here they are talking about the poor. Well, you didn't fight for the poor. You fought the poor, for your wallets, not for theirs. With their money, you put your pockets on them. You went to Maldives with their money. You didn't sweat making a vacation in the Maldives in the middle of the winter for 30,000 euros. Someone else was sweating. You only took it upon yourself or whatever it was he was painting. He painted everything in yellow and started. Wild construction, Ada Bridge, water-saving thirst. They connect two meat communities. We, peasants, here we are accused of being the greatest wild builders. Yeah, we have a lot of auxiliary facilities, that's a fact. It's hard to get permits for sheds, garages, etc. I admit it. And there are, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they It became a criminal offence before 2008, as far as I remember, and they forced some peasants for boilers, baskets, etc., but the biggest thief among them, Dragan Gilas, the red-haired, red-bearded pirate and thief, did not charge. Here's the thing. It says: the beginning of works on the bridge via Sava. That's when they translated the thirsty across the water. He says this - 01.12.2008, report B92, so that it is not that I invented, beginning construction, rods etc. Is the start of construction, Madam Minister, killing spikes, I don't know, seven, eight spikes etc? I think it's construction, but I asked and got the answer when they got the building permit. Well, he says this – a solution to the approval for the construction of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, number 3510300136/2009-07, since 3 April 2009, legally 4.05.2009. If the permit was 4.05.2009, and the one who runs the alliance of millionaires, thieves, frauds, peljesanovics, started building 1.12, I also asked Minister and Lawyer Bonafides, who will file a criminal charges for the criminal act of illegal construction, done by the then mayor Dragan Gilas, among my MPs' club known as the red-haired pirate. He said on that occasion that it was the most important project that cost, I don't know, 118 million, and in the end it turned out to be 450 million in half done. To finish, it takes another 600 million. So, except that they have to answer for illegal construction, they have to answer for the incredible robbery they've done, because, well, we peasants if we'd built a bridge, we'd be looking for it to be across the river where it's the most expensive and cheapest. But they, miraculously, built where it was the fastest and where it would be the most expensive, so I guess it was a percentage, so construction with 118 million, based on what DRI found, grew to 450 million. And today, this alliance of cheaters, peljesanovics, mutibarics, etc. It also appears that what they were building, they only worked for a percentage. Otherwise, during the reign of those Martians, the construction of the yellow color almost did not exist in some organized sense. All builders during the rule of Gilas, Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Boris Tadic, were all builders free. Well, that's how disabled these Latvians are. The ones in the congregation are just one free builder. So they had all the free builders, and they only have one free builder and they're against the Masons and so on. Speaking of this librarian, then, who came to the scene of the Chačan library in a fair way, through Velija Ilic, etc., he is all right. The villagers came from the village, the village of Vranic, and made a wildebeest in Čačka. Fact. Now, I'm not gonna tell you what they're related to. Generally, Velimir Ilic employed the person concerned in "Hydrogradnja". When he ruined "Hydrogradnja", as one of the directors, when he left the workers without a job, when he left them without pay and bread, he left them on the street, and he crossed through Velimir Ilic, they are called the trails, then he moved to the construction inspector in the town of Cačka. So we got unlisted 99 and something. Let's be precise, accurate, here's Mr. Atlagic's not going to help me, here's to be exact, accurate. Katastar says like this - there are 44,950 registered objects in the town of Cačka, not registered 95,326, then the son of that building inspector and chief of inspection tells us – how are you not ashamed? I really don't know how he's not ashamed of anything. This God is not afraid of Hilandar, when St. Bostic is left-handed, 5,000 euros, he is not afraid of Hilandar. What? It's not just St. Christmas left-handed, there's another one, says St. Bostic kills a woman. All women fall before him, not out of charm, which he says, "You are not late, but those who fall by force." Which doesn't fall, he breaks. So it's the one who's free of speech, so he says to the one he doesn't agree with. Come on out, you can't talk. It is he who is against reality for the freedom of the media, and is not separated from Gilas, under his hand, and Gilas brought the first reality into that pioneer city. Where Pedja D Boy was banging his desk with a peer. When they were taking money, then the peer was good, he could've been on the table, it could've been anything. Now they are against reality, now they are for freedom of the media, now they are against wild construction, and here 95,326 are no longer registered, and even more than Stamatovic. Stamatovic even had less wildly built objects than this in Cačka. Here in Chačka for one legal two illegals. Stamatovic couldn't beat them either. You know what's gonna happen on Zlatibor soon? Zlatiborci will come for Stamatovic in Belgrade to breathe fresh air. So much illegal construction has taken hold and so many floors. That's where the 11-story cottages are now, ala Šarić, ala Pekovic, alas, alas. So that's what it looks like, a destination to launder money from various mobsters, especially those who trade white, etc. That's why I agree with him that wild construction is dangerous, that it should be punished, that it should be destroyed. Ilic claimed something, I don't want to go into it, that there was some percentage, whether it was, whether it wasn't. That part let them handle it on their own. They were in love. Librarians, brothers, sisters, two wives, etc. are employed. Everyone in the public sector. From Kolubara -- he holds a library of 50,000 euros until you manage, from the Kolubara miners. That's not what Branko Mihajlovic did either. He bathed miners with cold water, but did not take 50,000 euros from them. This guy took 50,000, and like him, he wasn't the government. Who doesn't have the power to get 50,000 euros, to get the post of spokesman in the Chapanese library, to hire his brother, to hire his daughter-in-law, to hire him two women, etc.? Only pets stayed. Who's without authority can change the apartment very quickly and from there some government store, I don't know where it comes from, downtown, 50,000 euros costs an apartment right now? It's something like that for me, 50,000 of the miners, 50,000 for the apartment, so plus this now in the election campaign, etc. That's why I agree that they're responding. As for this Bon fides, a combined lawyer, can sue me as much as he wants, it's his party's court. I have confidence in the court of his party. He no longer trusts the court of his own party, he trusts no one, keeps making phone calls, but I thank him for the information he gave me for the Shutanovec. He gave me information on how much money this guy has in his account. Turns out we found less. There's got to be another bill. We'll look into that carefully, as the gentleman said. In one piece, Mr. Martinovic was wrong. He said that there are rats in the pioneer town now, etc. Not all rats are the biggest in the pioneer town, where this Gilas headquarters was for Pejo D Bo and his peer on the table. So it wasn't that, it wasn't there. The largest rats have entered the Alliance for Serbia. It's such capital specimens, I call it a union of crooks, con artists, cheating, peljesanovic and Ljotics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46165	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46166	I replicate because Mr. Risticevic mentioned my name in the context of explaining how someone would think to sue the MP for a spoken word in the National Assembly. Just so the public understands, I'm a graduate lawyer, and without false modesty, I claim to be a good lawyer, and I would never think of suing the MP for something he says in the National Assembly. Whoever says that, even if he's not a lawyer, he's a serious ignorant. Yes, Mr. Risticevic, I had a case somewhere else, I think it was in 2003 or 2004, famous lawyer Daniela Lovrin, I think she called, she was a National MP from Šapac, and her sister Valentina was in the Municipal Election Commission, and those two committed such a theft of votes in Šapec that it was a terrible thing, and in that sense I was in the Assembly at the time, and how they were stealing, where the polling stations, etc., then that Daniela Lovrin sued me and she had really one shame at the judge. I didn't even leave, because why would I go to court for something I know there's no reason, no grounds. The judge laughed, she asked – excuse me, are you a lawyer, as you think of suing a fellow MP, so that this manner is obviously something that is present with these DS lawyers, and yet they were convinced that they were absolutely judges in their jurisdiction and believed that they could do whatever they wanted, but, you know, always find themselves and, thank God, there are a lot of judges who are professionals who are doing their job seriously. Arsic, only half a sentence left. This famous lawyer, this Daniela Lovrin, has been such a good lawyer that for two years, he has been the director of the waterworks in Šapec. Now, how are the Hatters with water and with it, they know for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46167	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46168	Thank you, Chairman. We have a set of very serious laws ahead of us. However, these amendments and additions to the laws that should be adopted are often not at the level of seriousness that should be related to these laws, so I would start at the beginning from the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, where a lot of changes are foreseen in the Engineering Chamber of Serbia, which has been discussed quite already today. Quick, I'll tax you out what the major changes are. The new amendment and addition of the Law on Planning for Construction of the Chamber is taking away entrusted issues of issuing and withdrawing licences, which was the most important function of Serbia's Engineering Chamber. From now on, licenses will be issued to engineers by a commission educated by the minister responsible for works of construction, spatial planning and urbanism, not by the Engineering Chamber as before. In addition, the Ministry continues to retain the right to appoint a supervisory board and to appoint its representatives on the Management Board of the Engineering Chamber. Instead of the Court of Honors of the Serbian Engineering Chamber, the commission educated by the minister in charge of works of construction, spatial planning and urbanism decides on the responsibility of engineers. Against the decision to withdraw the licence brought by the Ministry of Appeal, the government of the Republic of Serbia can be told. So, these amendments to the law are completely decommissioned by the Engineering Chamber and lowers the maltenes to the insignificant and administrative body, and that is the question, because even the Register of Licensed Engineers and Planers will be run by the Ministry. I really don't understand what public interest protects power when it's so drastically rocking the chamber? A legitimate question can be asked about the purpose of the further existence of the chamber. Why does the authorities need full centralisation in this area, is that meaningful and is that the goal? Is it to determine the responsibility of an engineer to tear down that supporting wall or something? Obviously, the executive wants all segments of society to be subordinated to itself. This is another step towards making a party state, where the parties in power determine everything. They'd have lifted the bar if they could. With these legal changes, the states practically abolished the Engineering Chamber and brought it down to a purely formality. Then I'd also like to say something about the Law on the Law of Objects. The legislator cited as the basic reason for the adoption of this law as allowing for an even more effective enforcement of legislation, i.e. illegally built buildings in the Republic of Serbia, so I would like to ask you - what efficiency are you talking about when there are as many as two million illegal objects in Serbia right now? So, within six years of this government, the number of illegal objects has not been reduced, but has even increased. The proposal proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure and stated that this would significantly facilitate the existing procedure, which would contribute to a better position of parties and a positive impact on the economy. Let's see how the promoter sees this better position of parties and a positive effect on the economy. In the law-amending work on the destruction of objects, it foresees that future destruction of objects will be carried out on the basis of final, rather than judicial solutions. It's a dramatic difference, and we think this is a shameful solution. This eliminates timely judicial control of legality, and to the detriment of citizens. You're playing with citizens' property, their lives and their life savings. Explain to us - how can it contribute to the better position of the parties that someone will be able to tear down their house without a solution that is rightful? Have you considered that perhaps the Constitutional Court will rule in favour of the citizens? What positive effect on the economy, if the state is obliged to pay millions in damages? Who's gonna pay for that damage? Aren't you going to get out of your pocket? You won't. They'll pay the citizens. That's why you might suggest something like this. There's absolutely no legal reason to do this unless someone's meant to make a mess in that area of action. Under two, buildings built in a zone of protection of public buildings. The proposal envisioned this law that it would be possible to legalise the facilities that were built in the area of protection of public buildings. So, the promoter believes it is okay to legalise trades, houses, cottages built on public areas, public roads, sidewalks, parks, near schools, hospitals, etc. Is this what you want to legalize chaos and crime? I'm sure you won't bring order to this. Why don't you just admit that you want to find a way to legalize Tom's cottages and other powerful people's cottages? When are you going to deal with the problem of illegal construction on the Sava Nasip, or do you think it's better if it happens to us in that part of the new Obrenovac? Under three, legal fees. In law, the Proposer provided for entities that would not pay the billing fee. It included organisations and institutions of the Republic of Serbia, authorities and organisations of the AP, i.e. units of local self-government, compulsory social security organisations, institutions established by the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces, but also, I stress, churches and religious communities registered under the law. I don't understand why you're turning the church against the citizens. In a conversation with the clergy, it is clear that they have no problem paying taxes like all other citizens in Serbia. We don't understand why you're doing this. This part of the law should be deleted and we are sure that the Serbian Orthodox Church in particular agrees with this. It is a good thing that now the level of fees for legal fees is more accessible to citizens than it was five, six years ago, but the question for the minister is – will the people who paid for legalising a fee of 10 and 20 000 euros, the money will be returned, or will the security citizens by who knows which way in this country get sown and turned out to be humps? Finally, to add to the one who wrote such a smut explanation, and such a very important law, it should be a shame. Finally, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport of passengers. When the reasoning of this bill is read, one cannot help but wonder whose interest it is and does the one who wrote this proposal know what the laws are for? By definition, laws are passed in order to protect public interest, and in this case it is to provide citizens with more quality, safer transport at a lower price. This is not the case here, but this bill has been passed in order to favour one category of service providers, i.e. taxi drivers compared to the other and to the harm of the citizens. That's the whole point of this story in this proposal. The promoter explained that these changes are due to the need to combat unfair competition, and these changes are the very changes which destroy healthy competition and provide a monopoly. It is also argued that this law is adopted because more frequent physical accounts between taxi drivers and other public transport entities are. So, I can conclude, our promoter tells us that we need to adopt these changes because someone wants to beat someone up. Very strange. The cab drivers have every right to demand that the state deal with those who work illegally on black, normal. It's a government job, not to limit competition. Two, what's all the trouble with this bill. There are several items. From the point of view of information technologies, this law is a step back, discourages the use of new technologies, innovative business and the development of competition. Under two, the number of taxi carriers is limited, limiting the ability to enter the market and better quality offers. The price of transport is fixed which is not formed under the influence of supply and demand, which means less quality offer and more expensive service to citizens. The free choice of work is also limited, and ultimately, discrimination is being carried out. Also, if you were able to include the representatives of the Taxi Association when drawing up this proposal, why didn't you allow IT sector representatives to do so? Isn't it better to listen to all the interested parties and then make the best decision? We're sure taxi drivers who work legally don't want to shut down the competition, but they want to prevent illegal competition, especially working on black. And under three, how is the state supposed to solve this issue? First, the law needs to establish the conditions for the provision of services in order to ensure adequate quality. Secondly, the number of taxis must be freely formed. And under three, the transport price must be formed depending on supply and demand. The effects of such proposals would be an increase in employment, a better quality of service and a cheaper price. If this is possible to set things up in Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, the UK, why is this not possible in Serbia? Finally, honourable fellow MPs, I urge you to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46169	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46170	Thank you for your comments. Just a few clarifications so there's no confusion. We'll start with the Engineering Chamber first. First, the Engineering Chamber, so we didn't suddenly take anything away, but first it's the Engineering Chamber, we basically entrusted her with the jobs for a while, or some previous, ancient ministry. Turns out it didn't give the desired results, and now we're just returning the Engineering Chamber to the government and the ministry, which doesn't mean it's going to stop working. She is certainly a professional association that we will pay special attention to. We think we might even trust them to do a part of the job, but certainly clear criteria for issuing the licenses, and the way we issue the permits, so we'll have the opportunity to check those permits, excuse the licenses, to check either eventually and subtract if it turns out that some things weren't right with certain engineers. Another thing that's important, about the Engineering Chamber, we've defined five parent sections. What I also saw in the amendments that I think is important and that we will surely accept is another new parent section, spatial planners. It's never been before, and I think it's important that we have that parenting section. Furthermore, as far as law enforcement is concerned, I think this is a way to make it more effective to further strengthen the legal process. You asked about the effects. Since the end of 2014, so 2015 to 2018, a list of facilities has been completed and we have 1.6 million illegally built objects listed. Final solutions to the 183,000 legislation have been issued. When you look at the period from 1997 to 2014, then you should know that only 150,000 were given from 1997 to 2014. So the effects certainly exist, but far from being satisfied. We have just seen from practice what additional problems are and these are actually these problems that we have seen, are now in the amendments and additions to this law. You also asked about amendments and additions to the Law on Law of Law, who will pay, if it happens that after a second-degree solution, the party may also win in the administrative court. The state will pay, because the government's assessment was that much greater social danger was to let administrative disputes last for years, to make buildings or houses at that time, to sell apartments, to make profits, etc., and that they were essentially illegally built buildings. Therefore, the state took on such a kind of risk, just to speed up the process of legislation, but on the other hand it acted preventively, but it worked with punishment, in the sense that such objects must be torn down. You asked about the seat belt. Of course it's not possible to build in a seat belt. But if the driver, for example. times, that the consent to build a house or that this house is mutilated, which already exists, has happened to us in practice many cases to enforce legislation, and that then the owner of the house sues the road manager and the state because his noise is very large, or exhaust gases etc. So, on the one hand, they were definitely working illegally. We said that, with the possible permission to manage the road, so let's say "Serbian Roads", if we're talking about the road belt, they can't give approval because they don't want to crash and they think it won't compromise traffic, and then the owner sues the state, E, so it can't. So that was why we gave that provision and why we dealt with it. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, I must say that we also worked with IT associations, more specifically we worked with all the taxi associations, but the IT associations were looking for meetings, they were with us. The first sentence, among other things, was that they were not exactly understood in transport, so IT applications in transport. When we said that there were no obstacles to these applications being used, but that it was necessary, first of all, to comply with the Department of Economy's criteria law, we supported it. So, the moment other laws change, I believe that they will be able to be more present, which doesn't mean they're not, because we already have many of these applications. So that story, under the terms of that same story of digitization, that we don't allow such applications to be in a taxi, not true, they already exist, but I'm going back once again, we're trying to fix the system as much as possible, and that was the reason for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46171	The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go. I apologize, colleague, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. We have now heard from the Deputy Prime Minister that the Engineering Chamber has failed to meet the expected results. Given that this year 150 years since the founding of a technical group, namely today's Union of Engineers and Technicians of Serbia, it... (Alexander Martinovic: This is not the Rules of Procedure!) Can I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46173	Col. Chevarlic, article 107. Comrade Chevarlich, I have to ask you something, you are now demeaning the dignity of the National Assembly with your conduct. I don't understand. Now let me explain. The responsibilities of the National Assembly are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of its jurisdiction, which is original by law, is transferring to various state bodies or other bodies and organizations where the Engineering Chamber is. The National Assembly has given its law to an engineering chamber authorized by the National Assembly at any time to repay those powers or to someone else at any time. Do you understand what you've done now? (Miladin Ševarlic): Can I move on? You can't do anything anymore. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? Miladin Ševarlic: Yes. Yes, thank you. My colleague Slavica Zivkovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46174	The Honorable Chairman, respected Madam Minister with fellow Members, respected MPs, my presentation today will mainly refer to the Construction Products Act, as I come from the construction industry, and it is understandable that my interest in this law is very important for the Serbian industry and that it should be given special attention to it. The most important reason for the adoption of the draft law on construction products is the need for a general regulation to regulate the placing on the market of construction products, which has not been the case so far. Another important reason for the adoption of this law is the fulfilment of the obligation, the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU regulations on negotiating Chapter 1 and the free movement of goods. Taking into account that EU regulations have been passed in this area for a long time, and this is the first time a document like this has been adopted in Serbia. As early as 2011, Regulation 305 was adopted in the EU area, which defines the construction material market, as we say, for the harmonised area. The existing legal framework for construction products, however, does not respect the specificity of construction products compared to all other products. This specificity is reflected in the fact that construction products only by installation acquire their basic performances relating to the essential characteristics of construction products, which depend on their intended use and are related to meeting the basic requirements for buildings. Given that the bill covers 1,200 products classified in 35 areas, it is important to note that this law has a significant impact on all actors on the construction material market, it is also important for the construction industry, for designers, bodies for the assessment of conformity, supervision and many others. The non-compliance of domestic legislation with European legislation in this area has caused a lot of problems for construction producers in Serbia and reduced their competitiveness on the European market. When harmonised standards were introduced in the EU as early as 2005 and 2006, construction material producers in the Republic of Serbia recognized the need to bring their production processes into line with European standards and then invest in new production lines, factory controls, person education and all that is needed to be competitive, because the construction material industry, when we talk about the foundations of construction material, 50% of its production exports to the EU market. These were major investments that helped producers survive the economic crisis that hit construction in particular, when in 2010, 2012, construction material was very difficult to sell in Serbia due to insufficient construction activity, due to lack of investment, due to reduced purchasing power of the population and reduced individual housing. Thanks to these investments, the construction industry survived because it exported most of its production. True, it is not always the best solution for the manufacturer, because it is a difficult material that, in the most part, only collects with every new km and makes the manufacturer less competitive on the European market. The law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance, the previous law that we have called upon and worked on, was largely unfavourable for the manufacturers of construction material because it prescribed conditions of testing which were quite binding and had a character of frequency, which is the rule of additional costs to the manufacturer, in addition to having to export to a harmonised area, to obtain additional permits for the EU market. However, due to the smooth functioning of the construction product market, another obstacle in the previous period was the availability of technical regulations applicable to the area of construction products in the Republic of Serbia, as the Ministry of Civil Engineering did not have its contact point, but all requests went through the Ministry of Industry and lost one significant time. When you apply to the Ministry of Economy for a certain technical regulation, and there was no other time because the last regulation was made by the Ministry of Economy, which, of course, referred it to the Resoring Ministry and as you get the answer to the asked question passed one significant time for the manufacturer, if we know that production is a permanent process and uninterrupted, which requires quick answers, the truth, was one big problem. This law foresees a different function of this contact point and we see it as one big advantage, but I'll talk about it later. The significant objectives provided for by this law are the most important – establishing the basis for the regulation of technical requirements for construction products, then establishing requirements that should meet the designated bodies for the assessment of compliance, establishing an electronic contact point with the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure, presupposing supervision of the application of this law and regulations and adoption into the domestic legal system of new institutes, as well as new terminology, which has come to us with new standards, was not possible to make it different. It seems a little rhobarb and incomprehensible, although the entire teams of experts were involved in harmonising terminology, but simply, this was the only solution we had to get used to in the next period. The draft law on construction products introduces in the domestic legal system the procedure for assessing and verifying the continuity of performance of construction products which is different from the conformity assessment procedure for all other products. The bill provides for the introduction of factory control, where the manufacturer is responsible for the quality of its product. The producers, as I have already said, adapted their production procedures to the highest extent to European standards and established factory controls in their factories. Where it is not done, there is a transitional period that is given by this law and will be done in the next period, probably. However, it is possible by law that if the manufacturer considers it to be a large cost and a large investment, he can subscribe equipment to a conformity assessment body, which will issue an adequate authorisation. All factories operating today in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and exporting to the EU were introduced so-called the system 4, which implies factory control as the only relevant body to assess the correctness of the product and with such technical correctness, the manufacturer shall enter the market. Therefore, it is excluded from the obligation of the manufacturer to engage an independent party that would work on the basis of the sample to verify and provide a certain correction guaranteeing the quality of the product. In this way, it is possible for the manufacturer to assess during the production process and to see certain shortcomings that may arise in production and remove them in the production process itself. In this way, the percentage of shears and all that is already in the production process is reduced and a constant problem. One of the changes in the bodies for the assessment of conformity is the transition to new frequencies of testing, for certain products there are fewer, for some larger, however, for reasons of rationalisation to producers will be more cost-effective to obtain equipment and to establish a system of factory control within their factories to provide them with a range of advantages, but of course additional costs. The demands of a new law that will be in line with the EU regulation establish the principle of meeting the minimum requirements for construction products that apply to all European countries. The construction product itself is a manufacturing process, so in the vast majority of cases it should not be changed. Manufacturers in the Republic of Serbia will therefore not need much time to adjust, except where it has not gone into production at all according to European standards. The technical evaluation bodies have not yet existed in the domestic conformity assessment system. Institutions whose employees are engaged in committees for the adoption of standards of the Institute of Standardisation, Colleges, Institutes and bodies for the assessment of conformity, if they have the capacity to do so, will recognise the interest that through a new type of technical assessment service of all those construction products which are not used for special purposes or represent new innovative products, designed procedures and procedures to demonstrate their similarity for the intended purpose. Innovation in the area of construction products is represented as in other areas thanks to new technologies, as well as materials used in the manufacture of construction products, and the evaluation and evaluation of such products is very often not covered by existing technical specifications or technical regulations, especially on the domestic market. Subject matter was originally prepared in the form of a regulation, and as such, public debates, organised by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and these public debates were organised by a large number of interested parties, not only by the construction producer but also by licensed engineers and projectors and concluded, by further examination, that as such it could not be transferred to our legal system, but that the law that was made in August 2017 was conducted in four Serbian cities where representatives of the business were again involved. What emerged as a result of these public debates is a common assessment that a transitional period for this law is needed for a minimum of two years. The transitional period is largely necessary to obtain the necessary equipment where it is not done for production by European standards, then for the purchase of equipment for factory controls, for the education of persons, because in the meantime a lot has changed in the construction industry and in order for our producers to remain competitive, they have to invest further. Of course, the time for planning investments and for changing production procedures is important and should be sufficient. The ministry has adopted such a proposal and how the next period will meet the economy is decided that, it is stipulated by the law that sublaws are being drafted within the next 12 months, but so are the rules, which are the most important thing for us, that is the rule that will define the setting of standards with mandatory application on the list one. It will be formed by finding first standards covering products, where Serbia has no production. In this way, no one will be directly affected, and then those standards will include products where we have already established production by European standards and ultimately put standards covering products where we do not have production by European standards so far, believing that the economy will have enough time to prepare for new regulations. What is also important for manufacturers is the formation of electronic contact points that will be at the Ministry of Construction. The law provides for an electronic contact point to be formed in the form of an institute and that requests for technical regulations in the Republic of Serbia can thus be made available to all interested parties without intermediaries. However, according to the law, it can happen, of course, as a problem, that the ministry does not have sufficient personnel capacity to perform such a service. Therefore, one suggestion, yes, is the economy very important that in the coming period this service, i.e. This service worked more efficiently than it did for justified reasons in the previous period was quite difficult and took a lot of time. The law also defines the placing on the market of construction products and the conditions that are the same for all countries according to basic characteristics. If we want to protect the interests of the manufacturer and to provide them with the products and quality of the product that requires the conditions of our market, a special accent should be placed on the design of the application rules, which would clearly define additional conditions concerning climate conditions, seismic and others that are characteristic of Serbia's area, which will again guarantee the quality of the material that is prescribed in accordance with their technical requirements. It's a rule regarding the Law of Planning and Construction, but since this law is passed in this set of laws, these two laws are somehow interlinked. We believe from the point of view of both the manufacturer and the whole of construction that this document is extremely important for the next period. What I would like to mention more under the Law on Planning and Construction is the status of the Engineering Chamber of Serbia. As someone who deals with professional associations and organizations of the work of professional associations and someone who in the meantime worked together and with the Engineering Chamber, from my knowledge and experience, the Ministry sought to overcome the problem of functioning the Engineering Chamber in the previous period. I believe that this solution that was proposed today was only possible after all the tools or mechanisms available were exhausted to achieve smooth functioning in the Engineering Chamber. I also hope that there will be a way in the next period to restore autonomy to the profession, that the profession will justify it. It's one of my visions and my opinion as someone who works in professional societies. Finally, I would like to stress that the SDPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws in the area of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46175	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46176	I want to thank you for your opinion, for your comments, especially on the Construction Products Act. We've done it a long time, maybe it's taken a while before, and I'm glad you just gave a special accent to this law that's really necessary and important to our construction. Just a little addition, regarding the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction and the Engineering Chamber, you're right, we've tried twice for three months to solve problems in the Engineering Chamber. That really didn't give the right results. On the other hand, the need is, of course, great, but what I want to point out is that the profession has never been without autonomy and will never be without autonomy, because there is no success and there is no work and results if the waist really isn't the one that needs to give its opinion. Sometimes things obviously happened a little differently and we had a lot of problems. So it's safe that in the time ahead, first some jobs, of course the Engineering Chamber will continue to perform, that's for sure. Now, as it goes on, I hope we can do some things that we can trust again if we can arrange the system as such. Thank you for your comments and thank you for voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46177	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46178	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, whenever we are in the assembly debate of proposals from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, we have the opportunity to talk about concrete and important things, to remind ourselves of those things that the ministry has done over the past years. Well, according to that, we probably expect these laws to produce concrete results. Today we are talking about legislation that will have a direct impact on the economy, on public authorities, on banks and other financial organisations, and on all citizens. We are talking about proposals that will further regulate certain issues, but also bring our legislation into line with EU rules. I will start with the draft law on construction products because unlike other proposals relating to changes and additions, this is a proposal for a new law for which the need has been made because individual solutions given in the Law on Planning and Construction and in some other laws, and there is a real need for the placing on the market of construction products to be resolved by a special law. For example, for certain construction products, technical requirements are not prescribed by domestic regulations at all, so it is responsible for their use on designers who produce technical documentation. So here you can see the need for the area of construction products to be arranged in a unique and comprehensive way. Also, the existing legal framework does not respect the specificity of construction products in relation to other products, and if we know that this specificity of viewing is, or that their features come to light when they are installed into other buildings, we need to know that this must be brought into line with EU rules. The existing legal framework is not in line with the fact that there are about 120 acts relating to construction products. This discrepancy is precisely an obstacle to the competitiveness of our producers on foreign markets. For the sake of smooth functioning of the market, on the other hand, technical regulations must be made available in order for economic operators to have accurate information on the regulations in force in Serbia. It is therefore necessary to establish a state service to provide such information. In some cases, the competent ministry has even received questions through the Ministry of Economy, however, the procedure is long and the business is very valuable and therefore the proposal for the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure to form electronic contact for construction products. It can be said that the objectives of adopting this law are to create conditions for construction products placed on the Serbian market, meet the prescribed conditions and requirements relating to the facilities they are being built into, and also to achieve greater competitiveness of domestic producers on the market and both domestic and EU markets. Certainly one of the indicators of whether the solutions in this proposal are good will also be the volume of exports of construction products. The adoption of the law is also expected to provide conditions for the creation of new economic operators. Furthermore, as a result of an analysis of the effects of the Law on Planning and Construction and the problems encountered in its application, amendments and additions to the law have arisen. As the law was passed three years ago, there is a need to amend certain standards just to adapt them to innovation in practice and in this respect to improve. In addition, some legal solutions have proved inadequate, and there have been cases where the competent authorities have different interpretations of legal provisions, including through the application of these legal provisions create unequal practices. It is necessary to continue to work on creating conditions for the advancement of the economy, for the progress of our country on the Duing Business List, for attracting investment, and also for reforming procedures. The adoption of amendments and additions will remove the shortcomings observed in the current application of the law, the norms will be specified to improve construction, the planning documents will be drawn up faster, the way technical documentation will be determined, changes relating to the issue and validity of the building permit will start to apply, and investors will be able to obtain documentation more easily with certain savings, as some seven administrative fees are planned. Also, some work will not require solutions, and this will also concern the savings that investors will have. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, the Law on the Law of Law of Objects provides for the construction inspection to carry out a list of all illegally built objects and to initiate proceedings under official duty. There is a unique database that contains more than 2,040,000 illegally built objects and there are both objects for which a request for legalisation has been submitted and those for which it is not. Given the large number of objects that are, or will be subject to, the legislation, amendments and additions have been proposed to speed up and facilitate the whole work, that is to say, the legal procedures, which also prevent future illegal actions, the raising of objects or the use of objects that have been raised in an illegal manner. In particular, it should be pointed out that in the event that the facility cannot be legalised, it collapses on the basis of a final and not on the basis of a judicial solution. The state here has taken the risk of compensation for damages, if the Administrative Court solves otherwise, and this is precisely why further abuses occur while awaiting the resolution of administrative disputes, new illegal action or illegal objects raised. Today, we also have before us a bill on air traffic amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. The rules applicable to us in this area need to be further aligned with international standards and the recommended practice of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. It is particularly important, and I would like to single out new chapters of the law that are in line with Annex 18 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation. This proposal aligns the rules with the provisions and the Inspection Control Act, but also provides for a number of provisions to be applied more easily in practice. The effects of this law will be seen in the aviation economy, the provisions will have an impact on service users and air personnel, as they will clearly define their rights and obligations to state authorities and organisations that have certain responsibilities in the field of air traffic, as much as their responsibilities will be specified in the part in which they overlap with the responsibilities of some other state authorities. The law will have positive effects on domestic and foreign aircraft operators participating in the search and rescue and it is particularly important to say on those carrying out humanitarian flights because they will be free of airport fees. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, I would first of all like to say that in the period from 2013 to 2017, transport of dangerous goods recorded a constant increase in the quantity of goods transported, mostly in water transport, by 600%, in rail and in road transport by 60% and 40% respectively. The main reason for the adoption of this law is to further comply with international regulations and standards in the area of dangerous goods. In addition, compliance with certain national rules such as those relating to inspection surveillance will be carried out. The objectives achieved by this law will be to improve safety when carrying out the transport of dangerous goods, a higher degree of efficiency in the operation of entities in this area, to remove shortcomings in the applicable law and to more detailed regulation of individual institutes. As a concrete example of the changes, we can also take that, now, for tankers and vehicles for which, by the date of entry into force of the Transport Act, the ADR certificate of approval for the vehicle has been issued and has not been examined, that it is now necessary by the end of the year, i.e. by 31 December of this year, to provide and be assured of the investigation. With traffic accidents, unfortunately, we meet every day. What is the obligation of the state is to adopt adequate regulation in order to at least increase the level of security in some parts. In particular, we are talking about security in the transport system to be provided through the implementation of an efficient, reliable and independent organisation to investigate accidents and investigations, in accordance with EU legislation and international conventions. The adoption of the proposal will address the problems identified in the practice of law enforcement, and above all concerns the conduct of the Traffic and Judicial Authorities Centre, so that the obligation of the competent judicial authorities to provide the Centre with the files and documents necessary for the conduct of the investigation, which was previously only at the level of opportunity, while the Centre can provide technical assistance to judicial authorities. What I would like to point out, which refers to rail traffic, is that the Centre can request professional or technical assistance from the authorities of other countries or from the European Railway Agency. In the area of air traffic, the term adviser is introduced, as a person representing the state during the investigation, which was not the case before. Another example of the changes is to specify the obligation of air users involved in the accident, to deliver information on persons and dangerous goods on the flight to the Centre, which was also not the case before, and all with the aim of increasing the level of security, but also to bring our legislation into line with EU rules. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, this bill is practically the result of talks with taxi associations, trade unions and representatives of taxi undertakings, in order to amend the provisions governing taxi transport, but also to be observed in the light of the provisions of the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. Many illegal taxis have been observed, many abuses have occurred. Local self-government units also vary in terms of the driver and the vehicle to which taxi transport is carried out. The work of renting a vehicle with a driver, i.e. a freighter, has been arranged only by the Tourism Act as a special type of vehicle rental service. However, during inspection controls, it was noted that this type of transport and use and charge as a passenger transport service, not as a car rental service with a driver. This created unfair competition and a difficult position for the taxi association, which led to the fact that both transport is now being observed through the provisions of the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. The activity of renting a vehicle with a driver will be monitored through these provisions and this law will have certain effects in this regard and on the citizens who use this transport, because they actually use services of unregistered entities that do not comply with the obligations laid down in the law and thus question their security. The adoption of this law will reduce the grey economy in local self-governments, which have a large number of unregistered carriers, as it will be specified on the one hand by the authority of the local self-government unit, and on the other, measures against entities illegally operating a taxi transport. Furthermore, we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belongance and the registration of vessels. The specificity of this bill is reflected in the fact that certain provisions that exist in Regulation 789/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as such, will be taken over and implemented in domestic legislation. In addition to complying with EU rules, the provisions of the proposal also refer to the situation of re-entry of ships and other vessels, since it has not been specified before which all documents are owned by the ship or any other vessel to submit with the request for re-entry of the vessel. The proposal will also implement the harmonisation of provisions with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and the regulation of broken provisions will allow for more effective application of the law. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, this proposal will have an impact on companies and other legal persons authorised to intervene in the employment of seafarers, as a five-year period is now being introduced for which approval will be granted with a view to the control of compliance with the conditions for granting authorisation. As far as shipowners and employers are concerned, they will be obliged to provide an insurance policy from which workers will be able to charge the costs in certain situations. These situations can relate to their abandonment, these are claims for death or injury at work and the like. The adoption of this law achieves better compliance of domestic legislation with EU rules and the implementation of international conventions in the field of maritime navigation. Finally, I would like to say something about the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary. Therefore, due to continued co-operation between the two countries, there was a need for an act to regulate the areas and co-operation, especially with the aim of their infrastructure development. This agreement will allow for concerted development and implementation of infrastructure projects, study preparation, work on modernising existing infrastructures, and work on building new infrastructure. Furthermore, by adopting this agreement, Serbia will meet its international obligations in the area of infrastructure projects. Finally, I would like to commend the work of the government and in this area of the work of the Deputy Prime Minister and the work of all the resources it leads, the construction of miles and miles of new roads, the construction of new apartments for security forces, the development of air traffic, the modernisation of airports, the repair of conditions for the operation of road and rail traffic, the quality of life of all Serbian citizens has increased. This is a good opportunity to remind ourselves of everything that has been done in recent years, and for me, it is a good opportunity for my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to call on us to support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46179	I thank my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46180	Mr. Chairman, we've been dealing with things here in the Assembly for the past few weeks that, no matter what point and any law is important, we could very much be led under that sentiment that the village is burning and the grandmother is combing. So, with all due respect, with all due respect and bats and moving birds, I think we could have made better use of those ten days, the last two weeks. But today is a slightly different case, today we have a set of laws that have their own relevance, far from that, although there has also been some of the things, some of the topics that could also be influenced by the already mentioned and quoted sentiment. In that sense, I will repeat a part of what my colleagues have already said, mostly from the opposition, but not just fellow opposition colleagues but perhaps even a little more chosen words and some of the ruling coalition have also been troubled by some of these proposed solutions. I'll go, as I said from the end, or from what might be the most dictative and somewhat justified, or at least explain this qualification of my grandmother and combing. I ask you, Mrs Mihajlovic, how many in the registers or registers of the state of Serbia, how many in these registers of maritime ships have been registered since 2011 since this law was passed? I suppose Madam Minister knows, and for the public, and for those of you who are looking for me to answer immediately. Not one. Why does it matter? Because when the law was passed, as well as several amendments and additions, in the meantime, that law was usually made easier for you in 2011, so before this progressive government, but still several times it has been passed as a reason why it is important, it has been passed that this law and these amendments and additions of the law will be made possible to, it doesn't matter what Serbia is a continental country, that ships under our flag will be registered, and that we will be maltene some force of the sea, such as Liberia, or Greece, or at least close to that. In these how many years, so we in that register, that is, we don't have a single seaship to sail under our flag, and we here have a lot of ambitious two points of detail and a wide two points of the agenda. These are points 8 and 9, if I'm not mistaken, you can see how much of it they're dealing with, among other things, even completely with that topic. You didn't essentially say that, but you didn't make much of a point, probably not to cause criticism or disdain from the opposition's ranks, and to the gods and deeds of ruling or conquering parties, that these laws, and these two that I am now talking about, but also some others are bringing first and foremost to comply with European legislation. This is essentially the primary motive of these laws and why they are considered by an emergency procedure, because I really don't think that a less urgent procedure would disrupt something in the existence and conversion of Serbia into a maritime power. So agreeing with European procedures is an explanation of why we dealt with those migration birds and bats last week, as well as now some of these points. When we look at life and what affects the citizens of this country, then there are several in this set of proposals that are really relevant, which is why I said we can't fully apply that sentiment about the grandmother who combs herself while the village burns. First of all, the law of illegal objects. This concerns many citizens, directly and indirectly, of this country, and besides what has already been said, I have little to say, even more than a few things might be commended. You said that this progress over the last three years that the law is in force, we have progress in the percentage of the law, but it is far below what was wanted and what was expected. What is positive is that I don't forget to say, what you pointed out and you pointed out will not be possible to sell illegal objects, that there is now a more restrictive and explicit obstacle to the possibility of something that has already been understood, but has not been sufficiently specific. So the possibility of selling these illegal objects will be, but it will depend on seeing and of working out, of course later, prevented and that's good. What would a colleague say across the street? Bravo. But it's clear to you and me that some things are controversial here, and they're a little bit tried to push themselves under the carpet. The first thing this is already mentioned on various sides, and I can't look back on it, the Serbian Engineering Chamber, which, you can say whatever you want, call it whatever you want, but it's actually derrogated. And you chose words in the beginning, after the debate went on, a little less of them, because you are dissatisfied with the work of the Serbian Engineering Chamber. You are probably right, i.e. you have your own arguments, but it is also about the organisation of a professional, professional organisation that really exists for a very long time for worldly, European relations, especially in Serbian and Balkan terms and relations. It's some kind of humiliation or slapping that engineering chamber and that's what everyone who has to do with that profession knows and feels somewhere. Those who are close or close to the ruling coalition will not say that, but will again make little choice of words, as a colleague earlier, and those who are from the opposition will, of course, potential more. I'm sure it's not great, and I'm sure there's, like, all these professional associations, there's a lot of problems. I'm not even someone who'll be against centralization. And, you know, in some other points, I don't mind knowing which ones are responsible for, and when it comes to education and some other things and in the media sphere and culture, I prefer to know that there's one address, so which one we're going to either praise or we're going to complain about and say that they're guilty of why things aren't good. In that sense, your motive may have been correct, but I say, honestly speaking and looking into the eyes, we can't help but realize that it is the derrogation of that institution and that certainly the members and the entire profession of engineering are not looking at it with enthusiasm, regardless of what someone wants even louder, and someone less loudly responds to it. So, you're derivating the profession and it's not the first time. The other thing I was talking about, as I said, I have no direct interest, which is more, I'm a fan and a fan, if I can say it, Serbian, especially Belgrade taxis, but when it comes to this law, or this point, I think it's a 6, or which was, no, it's a rail traffic, so that's 7 point 7, it's hard to understand and others could understand it, but it's like putting aside the arguments made by taxi drivers, or taxi associations. And, practically, although I've listened to you very carefully, you've said it several times, practically, elimination and possibilities, at least until further notice, using these modern technologies to transport passengers. I've never used Kargo's services, or any of these. So, I say, for countless reasons, I am sentimental about Belgrade taxi drivers. But it's far from an orderly sphere, far from having these vehicles at an envious level, far from what I need right now, to prevent someone else from getting in there and rich, to watch through our fingers, as I also speak, first of all, in Belgrade, and I believe that it's not much better in other cities, and I also know for Novi Sad, that it's such a mild reminder of hiduciju. The treasure is said to be unsettled. Mildly spoken, all transports are carried, and all passengers are transported. You obviously, whether under the pressure of a taxi association or some other interest groups, or perhaps skeptics towards new technologies, simply put direct and indirect bans, or obstacles and ramps, even though you said here several times that this is not the case and that everyone can deal with it. No, the competition's healthy. If you consider these “Kargo” and these other types of passenger transport privileged, impose a tax on them, introduce some control measures, whatever measures you want and whatever you consider desirable, but do not remind them of healthy competition in this way. The situation in the city transport of Belgrade and Serbia, but we are talking, first of all, about Belgrade, is really bad and is much worse than a few years ago. Whoever's guilty of this may have just increased the city, perhaps no authority is specifically guilty, there may be a lot of passengers, a lot of vehicles or a lot of work, but the fact is that the transfer to Belgrade and through Belgrade has become an almost impossible mission in most parts of the day and most of the week. And, in that light, anything that can contribute, anything that can help, at least a little, to make that condition in passenger transport better, should be encouraged. I'm saying, we don't need unfair competition, we don't need privileged players, but there's, I think that should be, and that's some kind of appeal, not just criticism, to really find a better balance, except for this verbal one, which you've pointed out here several times, but I'd like some of it to be operationalized. I can't say that he's absolutely right about this letter author and owner, which is already, the co-owner of this "Kargo" who sent a letter to many addresses, but he thinks, so I have his word and your word, he considers, practically, these measures make this kind of service impossible. So, he believes that this proposal of yours, in practice, makes it impossible for him to provide the service he has so far provided for tens or hundreds of thousands of citizens of Belgrade. You say - it's not like that. His word against yours. I simply ask that clarification and independent of the clarification, I urge that some kind of compromise be found there. I say, my, as I said, the heart is on the side of Belgrade taxi drivers, but honestly, regardless of the heart, I found, here on Sunday night, it was as many, two, three days ago, alone at a station, a taxi station in Belgrade, in downtown Belgrade, a fifth vehicle I found, or I was able to get into the fifth vehicle, because the first four were uninterested in driving me for relatively short distance. And they knew they couldn't drive me, because they probably recognized me as driving me around town. So, so much for the state of our taxi ride. It's about that. The last of this sphere of your concrete laws, and then I'll have another principled dilemma and a question. So, Article 171, I am going back to basic law, you are ousting, disabling the wording from that member that the competent service, the secretariat, or inspector, will be engaged and removed, will also be responsible for removing illegal objects. You, however, are putting on another formulation, that it will be competent, but it is removed, this explicit formulation is cast out. Independently all of that particular member, maybe it's just a silly formulation, maybe I or some colleagues misunderstood, but I'm asking you very directly and very honestly -- do you think after this set of laws that you've proposed, now I'm going back to law enforcement and illegal construction, is it going to be easier or harder to remove the already mentioned object here at Pancic's summit? Let's take it as a metaphor, as a symbol. It is neither the beginning nor the end of all our state problems, but here, let us take it as a metaphor as one, assuming by your conclusion, your ministry, an illegal facility, for which there was a directive and a request to be removed and which was not removed because of disagreement in jurisdiction or disagreement over what is the jurisdiction of your ministry, and what is the jurisdiction of Mr Stefanovic's ministry. However, is it, after these measures, that or similar illegal objects will be easier or harder to remove, in your opinion, which may, of course, be correct or wrong? Another thing that does not touch you, but indirectly, you mentioned in your opening statement, when you said at one point, well, like, I am a traitor because I want to build this corridor or what I insist on on on this corridor Nis – Merdare – Pristina – Albania. That's what you looked back on on the way, because there wasn't much of a theme here right now. But I have to say, regardless of how we qualify, regardless of whether we're going to throw ourselves in hard words, I think, and a good part of people and citizens, and also the profession, thinks that direction, and you're going to say in response, there's a colleague from that neighborhood, who's going to say, no, it's very important to us to the citizens of Prokupja, I don't know, that end, Toplice, is very important. It's always important, but the state has to choose priorities. Do you agree with me or do you disagree that we still prefer to end Corridor 10, 11, the Moravia Corridor, that they are of ultimate importance to us? I welcome all efforts towards the end of that corridor. Why, I ask you once again directly, because when I ask you a question, when we ask the question of the written Government, then we get often a routine or bureaucratic answer, why, Mrs. Mihajlović, does it mean so much to you, I don't want to draw these stories – betrayal, NATO, this or that, especially in light of some criticisms which I would even say, and brutally exposed to lately, but really, why, I know it's not your whim, I don't think it's your decision, you couldn't make that decision on your own, why is the direction of Nis – Merdare – Pristina, the Albanian coast, why is it so important to enter into the priorities of building highways in our country? It is really hard to resist the impression that this may be more important to some other countries, some other forces and other alliances, not to citizens and the state of Serbia. If it's so important to them, let them finance it. Why would the state of Serbia be in charge, invested in a travel route that is much more important for the citizens of Albania, including KIM, as well as for the NATO Alliance so that they can move more easily and faster to the east? Not getting into these complicated geopolitical stories and ravines, I just don't think that direction is our priority. If you are close to the end of all other corridors, and we are not, you see that this is constantly prolonging and never ending, then let's either focus on this direction towards Republika Srpska, or BiH, or that's also in the plan, which I can also welcome, rather than making way for Albanians, which is from Albania, which is from the KIM space, which is for the NATO Pact. The last thing, really the last thing. We are now voting here or discussing this bill of yours, but I must tell you, let me ask you, is it a little uncomfortable for you in light of all these campaigns these last days, which has not come out, and the opposition has this power and presence in the media that you are now performing here as a representative of the Serbian Government, are you Mrs. Mihajlovic, indeed my last question, believe that you have the support of the Serbian Government and the leaders of the Serbian state for these proposals and for the policy that you are leading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46181	Several MPs pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. First authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46182	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on article 107. The speaker is in session obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly has been severely violated by comparing this tall home with the humorous series "The Village burns and the grandmother combs." We're making laws here, we're discussing very important bill proposals, it's not about humor or anything, and nothing's funny today, and it's not funny when the Allies of Djorđa Vukadinovic are calling for Mrs Ana Brnabić and Aleksandar Vucic to hang themselves on the Terrace. Gjorge Vukadinovic made the wrong parallels. He was supposed to, if he wanted to, do a dipression on something and say something, maybe say he's judging it, but I know he won't say it, because he didn't even say he condemns calling for violence, calling for rape. Therefore, the chairman, I ask you today and at all times take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46183	My colleague, Žarić Kovacevic, I know that you, like me, will at all times take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. I can't guarantee that for all the MPs, and I want to believe that's how this will continue today's debate. What I see as suggesting that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure is how my colleague tried to minimize and reduce the importance of legal proposals that we talked about at the previous assembly meeting, and I fully agree with you here, because every legislative proposal that is under discussion is of great importance and importance, and specifically, when we talk about protecting the environment, it is something about all of us, depending on the MPs in which way, whether responsible, serious, committed or otherwise doing their job. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason, because I didn't want to make it impossible for my colleague Vukadinovic to finish his thought and his presentation by the end, because that would mean that, as they very often define, I would like to prevent the democratic confrontation of opinion and freedom of speech in parliament, which I never did, but I agree in your findings, of course. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. I thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46184	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 106, 108, 109. Mr. Chairman, by respecting your high tolerance for the opposition, in some of the following cases, I recommend that you sanction Gjorga Vukadinovic's behaviour. In fact, it's not just a humorous show, it's a saying – the village burns the hair of the comb. People are sweating in the country. That proverb should read during the reign of these yellow Martians, and he certainly understands it. So, Djordje Vukadinovic, this man, was warmly attached to Boris Tadic. Where's Boris Tadic's left hand? Guess what. In a whole group of ten leaders, he is right next to Boris Tadic. Why? Because he remembers those games so well. The proverb was supposed to be: the village burns, the village lives, the village burns, and Tadic and Djordje Vukadinovic splits the money in Lutria. That would be more right. That would be more accurate. Because there's a contract here at 2,400,000.00 dinars. So, the mention of Djordje Vukadinovic was won by Luttria 2,400,000,00 dinars and did not buy lucky ones. Well, that's why they're warmly drunk, 'cause they remember these games so well, and there was a chance of mutual happiness. Further, bats, too, and useful animals, unlike those of the opposition, thousands of insects are caught during the night, thus guaranteeing healthier food. One more thing, Djordje Vukadinovic shouldn't object to the Law on Blind Mouse, because that's how he got to the regular repromation of Vlach magic, that bat wing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46185	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. My colleague Rističević, you always suggest to me personally that I always have tolerance towards the opposition. You know that I, not only when it comes to the opposition, but when it comes to opposition and position, try to find one balance to have more effective work in the interests of citizens, and to respect on the other hand the rights of MPs and positions and opposition. However, everything has a certain threshold of tolerance and culture. You attended yesterday's act and this kind of intolerance and this kind of unworthy behavior and violation of the dignity of the National Assembly I could not tolerate and I did impose sanctions. I hate to do this, you know? I have to ask you – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is made by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46186	Article 27. The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. I think you, Mr. Chairman, have made a mistake about this Rules of Procedure. Everything like that, as I said, insinuating tolerance and everything, like, there, sacrificing myself that there's my voice. Anyone who followed this transmission could see that I spoke culturally, as well as every time, civilized, harshly, but in any case, I don't insult anyone, and I don't attack anyone, not even the person who used to be here, ministers, unlike some other highly protected persons or MPs, who I won't mention. We have seen that Mrs. Minister, in this case, was someone who could have been very cruelly and brutally attacked and insulted, and no one has shaken himself too much, including the chairman, as well as some presidents of the ruling coalition. I speak measuredly, but I don't want to say anything that I find pointless. So, I noticed, I said what's important here, I was talking about these few important points. I expect Mrs. Minister to answer, if she will, as well as one of my colleagues from the ruling coalition, if there's any reason, but I don't think so. This collection of cheap political points that some in charge will attack, call, slander, I've ignored it before, but now I won't. I took a picture with many of them, I said goodbye to many people, I only do what I do in my job description, as a respected colleague Risticevic should in a normal country dig a field, drink beer in front of the store, and get it done, and he's a folk MP here. It also speaks of what society is like here, as well as what country we live in. On the other hand, it is clear that he is serving to attack opposition representatives, and they are uncomfortable with answering because they do not want to descend to that level. It is the role of Mr. Rističević, his photographs, his wits in these sessions... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46187	There's no alleged tolerance here. You got the opportunity in two minutes and you weren't interrupted as well as your colleagues in position. That's all I was talking about. On the contrary, I didn't say you spoke uncivilized. You spoke civilised and culturally, but the digression you made when it came to what was the subject of the previous current assembly session was not, least of all, correct, because every law we discuss has a certain importance and importance. That's what this is about. We were talking about the protection of the environment, I just said it was something about all of us and that the comparison that you've made, to say the least, is not correct, and you've done it in a civilized and cultural way, and yet that means violating the dignity of the National Assembly, because that way you talk about a law that has great importance and importance, and how else do you define it? I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly in the voting day to declare the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? There's a full list you have to tell me just. Here you go. With--yes or--not just answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46188	You should -- yes, but still -- no, but I hope you understand the message and the warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46189	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46190	Thank you. So, I'm advertising a violation of the 107th, that is, a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. First of all, why am I advertising this member's injury? Because this way, as Mr Vukadinovic said, is insulted not only by the dignity of the Assembly, but also by the intelligence of our MPs coming from those parts that he describes. Why do I say that? Mr. Vukadinovic, the Serbs, the dominant Serbs and those Serbs, live in Toplica, I must honestly say that they have really welcomed and are eager to start building this highway. Why do I think so and why do I say so? Because, first of all, that infrastructure means progress. That infrastructure means everything. It means bringing in foreign investors. It means life. If you don't understand the need of the Toplice people to be equal in infrastructure, in regional development, so in something that they represent, I would say, civilization values, then I really don't know what kind of policy that is. If that's the policy you represent, the policy of the goat trails, not the highway, then we really have nothing to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46191	Thank you, colleague Laketić. I understand the reason why you came forward and explained how you feel that the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been violated, but you must understand that I, as chairman, cannot predict how and what the MPs will talk about. (Darko Laketić: I do not want the Assembly to plead.) I thank you, colleague Laketić. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46192	I thank the chairman. Since you have pointed out that you have violated the Rules of Procedure under Rule 106, 107, 108, I am reporting a breach of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. - The president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, as someone who comes from Toplička County, I must point out, and my colleague, Laketić, has already done this, how important this highway really is to us. A colleague should know, or previous speaker, that over 100 Serbian companies are selling their products right on the Albanian market, and this time is of priority and this is a strategic highway for all of Serbia. Our policy is to expand the production capacity of existing food industry companies, where products are currently being placed on the Albanian market. It is in the supermarkets in Tirana and Drac that our Serbian products are being placed, which I can freely say are popular for the Albanian market. This is the economic side of the road of priority. On the other hand, if we look at the retention of residents in the area, and how it will affect the retention of our citizens because they will be able to deal with their own business and place their products at lower prices and will be able to compete on the euro markets and on the Albanian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46193	My colleague Čaapić, I thank you first of all for pointing to the importance and importance of the topic we are talking about today and how important and important it is for us to return, to continue the debate in a democratic spirit and to talk about what are the points of the agenda. So now, according to Article 112, we're going to take one break of two minutes, and then we're going to move on. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work and move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law in points 1 to 10 of the agenda. First on the list of registered MPs, Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46195	Thank you, Chairman. I will look back at my presentation exclusively to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. We support the principle of purpose for road transport legislation to be consolidated into one law and taxi transport to be regulated, to curb the grey economy and to support the intention to prescribe equal conditions for all market participants, but unfortunately, we seem to have achieved this law in principle. Eight IT clusters signed a letter and a press release expressing their objections and we will try to discuss them in particular because we supported them through the amendments. The goal of having the same conditions prescribed for everyone is that we don't think it's a guess because it's prescribed that a taximeter is the only one that measures the price by law. So, the law states that a hole can be obtained by a drill and only by a drill. And if one day there's an innovator who's going to invent some more comfortable way of getting a hole on the wall, he's going to be put out of the law, because it's prescribed that a hole can be obtained by a drill and only by a drill. Citizens don't care about drills, citizens need holes. The digital application that shows a transparent price is prohibited if the price is offered below the one prescribed by the minimum law. And here we have a problem limiting and minimally available prices. A travel order, a printed account, a file that must be in paper form, with no option for it to be in electronic form, which the IT associations have proposed to the amendments, simply, somehow, from the plane is seen for whom this law was written. It is not disputed that the same conditions apply to all, but these are the conditions under which the innovator operates legally only if it works in a conventional way, without all its competitive advantages being put out of the law, and then the one that is the conventional transport service provider actually has no obligation to inot, because it has been released in advance by any possible innovative competition. There have been examples of some, but it's like if you were to write a law on this line of education, and then you prescribe that he's a line of teaching allowed by law, provided that the board and chalk are conducted, where the student in that line continues to sit in the same room as the board and the chalk. Or, for example, you can prescribe that Viber and Vocap can provide voice call services, so phone calls, but only if they do so through telecom repeaters or, better yet, prescribe a law obligation to place their repeater on every hill. These are the same conditions for all, but these are the conditions that pre-innovators exclude from the competition in a way that all its competitive advantages put him outside the law. We have a principled objection to the principle of introducing minimum prescribed prices and restrictions on the demand side. That's, as I would say, basic micro and macro-economics. I believe most of this is known here, there's a doctor of economic science here, but when you introduce a minimum regulated price at a level above the one that's marketed, you generate the difference between supply and demand. When you do so with agricultural products, you protect the agricultural producer and the state further regulate market surpluses by buying them and putting them into dry year stock reserves. The state here can't buy a market surplus by taking an extra taxi, and then accessing another measure, which is a limit on the side of the offer. But I believe you know that, too, in this way you are actually reducing the whole market for passenger transport and reducing the additional value that such a reduced market should deliver to society. You also reduce the impact of this and such market on the growth of gross domestic product. So we have an observation that innovation is put out of the law in advance, that there is a narrow market for taxis and not a passenger transport market, where a passenger can wish for some other kind of road transport that can even be called taxi transport, but it doesn't necessarily have to look just as the taxi transport looked in the last 100 years. We respect the taxi driver's desire to regulate their market, free the grey economy, unfair competition, to raise the standard and security that users will have, but not in advance of the legal elimination of innovative competitors. At the end of the line, it's not good for conventional taxi drivers either, because they too will be prevented from benefiting from innovative technologies. As I said, I have listed some concrete legal solutions here, and in the debate in particular, we will try, if we come to order, the amendments proposed by the IT industry to intervene, and I would like to hear a comment from the Deputy Prime Minister, to try to come up with some compromise solution in which the legitimate demands of the taxi driver will be respected, but in a way that allows both the innovators to enter the market and survive on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46196	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46197	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the work of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure is not to be spoken of much. The results of the work are visible and should not be wasted. Because the picture says a lot more than I say. I can only praise all the results they have. As a result of the ministry's work and activities, we have before us today the laws and amendments and additions of the laws to which I will look. The draft law on construction products is a modern law governing an area that has not been regulated by the legal framework so far. The ministry recognized that and therefore today we are discussing in principle the advantages that this law is taking. This law finally regulates the market for construction products. As a consequence of the application of this legal solution, product purchasers and manufacturers will benefit as well. We'll have a protected buyer against bad product. We'll have a protected manufacturer against unfair competition. What does this mean? Construction products under the new legal solution will have to meet the standards that are envisaged, and those standards that have been adopted not only in our country, but also in the European Union. In this way, on our market, we will get better quality products, and we will make it easier for manufacturers to export their products, because they too will have to meet certain standards. This is a good example of how to protect the domestic market from bad products on safety and on human health protection. By amending and supplementing the Law on Law of Law, we see the ministry's determination to bring illegal objects to an end, to stand in the way of wild construction, and to protect purchasers of illegal objects. According to administrative disputes, unconscious investors have delayed the destruction of the facilities and this has given them enough time to sell these facilities and leave them to customers to worry about the law. This way, customers are protected, especially apartments, because it was logical that it was impossible to tear down a residential building where ten or more families were housed. The proposed amendment of the Law of Law requires checking the visibility of the facility in the 2015 satellite video, for all legalisation requirements and requirements submitted under the old law, as well as for new requirements, which was not the case before, so that the proposed changes prevent abuses observed on the ground. Under new amendments to the Law on Law of Objects, it is possible to bring down an object that has received a final solution that cannot be legalised. Thus, the state knowingly took the risk of compensation for the damage in the event that the Administrative Court made a different solution. But this prevents illegal acquisition of profits, and to the harm of both states and customers. Since the immovableity cadasar will also be included, the competent authority shall have the obligation to provide data to the authority responsible for the tasks of the national diameter and the cadastre. These facilities will not be subject to trade until the legal process is completed. All these observations will be visible and easily verifiable to the public in electronic form on national geospace data infrastructure. The amendments to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport solve the problems we have in taxi transport. Negative phenomena have been detected in this area, which must be addressed immediately. It has been observed that there are vehicles with TX plates, which carry out taxi transport, although no taxi license has been issued for these vehicles. According to the unwritten rule, these vehicles take part in taxi transport in a very unprofessional way, causing damage not only to the state because of tax evasion, but also to legal taxi carriers, destroying their reputation. With their boastful behavior, they cause enormous damage, threaten security, and it is necessary to get in the way of this condition. Local self-government units will have an obligation to determine the price of transportation, which everyone will have to respect, and the number of taxis that can operate within a local self-government will be defined. Such legal solutions make it possible to reduce the grey economy, reduce the number of taxis operating illegally, and allow legal taxis to be able to do their job fairly and fairly without unfair and unprofessional competition. All the legal solutions that are on the agenda today are positive and regulate the observed shortcomings, so I will accept them in the day of voting with satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46198	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. He's not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46199	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by supporting all these laws, I must say the following. We farmers plow, that's right. We can't all get two million and four hundred thousand from gambling without having to buy a ticket. When you take that out and show a copy of the contract, they say you're insulting. Whether it's true or not, that's what they need to answer. Like when you show photos whether you're with Boris Tadic or not. Of course, it is, in very warm, how can I say, interpersonal relations. Then it's said I'm insulting. It's an honor to have a beer with the villagers. Not often lately, though. It's an honor to live in the country. It's an honor to be in this House. I never dreamed I'd be in this Parliament someday. My father was a peasant, my grandfather was a peasant, my grandfather was a peasant. The peasant parties were honorable and fair. I believe that they were honorable and honest, here, until this one began to throw away, and whether it was on the Vlach list or not, that should answer, not say that I'm insulting him. We can't all get two million and four hundred thousand, that's, to remind you, 240 peasant pensions, it's been taken from the insolent peasant hands. They're even a lottery, these two gentlemen have even pushed the lottery to the ground, it's nowhere in the world, and today they say I'm insulting something. They're talking about ships. So let's talk about their yachts, how they've been biting their sponsor crabs in the Maldives, etc. What my peasants say - the crabs ate them up for God's sake. Since they're not ashamed, they've robbed this people to the bone. Those yachts the one whose name I won't say, which is warmly drunk, that they're not ashamed to talk about, so these yachts rest on the tears of the poor, the new ones fired for staying with naked lives, the ones who fired 400,000, and the yachts rest on it. The international organisation says they've raised 51 billion dollars, and this one's covering up and investigating public opinion, etc., wanting to cover up that unprecedented robbery. Yeah, those yachts are resting on it. Don't just talk about boats, let him talk about those yachts that were taken, that were taken on the tears of the poor, the ones that were fired, the ones that were left in the naked lives, the ones who were wandering around the suburbs without an apartment, the tenants, the ones that you kidnapped, you kidnapped from the lottery, the budget covered that loss. I leave the rest of the time to my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46200	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not here. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. The word has the People's Messenger Ratko Jankov. He's not here either. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46201	Thank you. I will speak first of all about amendments and additions to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. In this way, something drastic is not going to change the law, but rather I think that we will clearly define and specify this area, an area relating to the transport of passengers, and I will immediately point to two significant aspects of this law. The first is that in this way, order will finally be introduced in the area of taxis, and the second is that positive effects will be achieved in curbing the gray zone. It is very important to be satisfied with the end-users of transport services and to make them feel the positive effects of amending and supplementing this law. We must always insist that this activity is performed by qualified and professional people, and only in this way can we achieve the quality of a particular service. These amendments to the law specify the way in which the price of services is also calculated, the price list must be clearly highlighted, which is in the function of protecting the rights of users of services. The law also protects carriers in situations where they can be threatened or where their means of transport can be damaged. I would not agree with the entanglements that apply to the fact that this is the way that it slows down, that is to say, discourages the use of new technologies. It is simply not necessary to give up the use of applications, but they should connect users and carriers in the right way, to facilitate both, not to abuse technological innovation and thus to obtain certain market advantages through unfair competition. The proposed amendments to the law should also enable a certain number of carriers to be reduced to legal frameworks, and illegal taxi drivers, I've talked about this before, can really threaten and threaten to endanger inter-urban carriers, and somewhere in inter-urban traffic, are so-called. Line taxi drivers. It is therefore important not to allow work in the gray zone, but to introduce all carriers into legal flows. This law defines the category of carrier Limo service and clearly sets out criteria for the performance of this activity. It is also necessary to update and keep records of the entities performing the work of the Limo service regularly. The amendments and additions to the law also provide for increased opportunities for inspection services to operate. I also expect that this law will have a good application in practice because the draft law included representatives of taxi associations, professional cab drivers' associations and union representatives by means of a working group that participated in the drafting of this law. The Air Traffic Act is also on the agenda and the provisions of this law should have a positive impact on both domestic and foreign airlines and airport operators. As an MP from the King, I have to touch one topic and I expect that in the near future, both sides and domestic air carriers will soon land and land and take off from Morava airport, and I hope that the conversion of the military airport will soon take place at the civil-military and mixed airport. This will not only benefit the citizens of Kraljev and Čačka, but also other cities from this region, both Gornji Milanovac and Kragujevac, Novi Pazar, Užica, and above all I believe that the airport will be the most at the service of the economy and will also be used for the transport of goods. I think that the economy would benefit the most, given that several factories are expected to open in this part of Serbia, only in the Kingdom, construction is under way and around six to 7,000 new jobs will be opened, in line with the amount of work that is planned. Also, the development of this region will contribute to the announced construction of the Moravia Corridor in a move from Preljina to Pojat, which will connect Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 and thus in an adequate way network highways in this part of Serbia and will be an additional wind in the back for the economy of this part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46202	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. He's not here. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46203	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister with representatives of your ministry, as already announced by our distinguished comrade, Stefan Miladanovic, the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws you are proposing. Let's wake up a little bit of this atmosphere that's kind of gone off now, when it comes to tension. On the other hand, when it comes to some legal solutions, I will refer only to two draft laws, which are the Law on Law and the Law on Planning and Construction. Right now, to be completely open and honest, today you've had a chance to hear a lot of populism, today you've had a chance to hear a lot of demagogy, and today you've had a chance to hear a lot of unfounded criticism. Unfounded because you obviously don't know or want to know whose jurisdiction is, and in accordance with that and whose responsibility is it. Since I will later refer to the Law on Planning and Construction, if we are talking about the provisions of the Law on Law of Law, it is logical that your ministry, after so many years of inherited problems, decades of inherited problems, is looking for solutions and no adequate and right solutions have yet been found, although these are very good and quality solutions. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about the fact that certain issues are finally being resolved systematically for decades not only haven't been systemically resolved, but also based on those legal regulations that have been prescribed, nothing is done, absolutely nothing. If we're talking about demolitions, then responsibility isn't at the Ministry, then responsibility is on local self-government, then responsibility is on inspection services, then responsibility is on whoever didn't take what was prescribed by law to take over. Well, we even have a situation here in Belgrade where a solution is made to the collapse of a simple tend and it's been waiting a few years for execution. It is logical that this procedure, in some ways, must be carried out even when it comes to tender procedures and other procedures and the security of appropriate money, but it cannot be in any way an excuse not to enforce what is legally the one who is authorised to implement it. Therefore, in this sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia and we as party MPs, our party, are giving support, especially in that part of this bill, which very clearly and precisely defines which objects are excluded from the legislation, which are specifically subject to this legislation. It is indeed something which is a qualitative shift compared to previous legal solutions. What I would, just from the point of view of the profession, in order for you not to get me wrong, have extremely well-intentionedly suggested certain provisions of this law that I think we should at least amend them a little bit more, and I think there's space for that as well. In particular, it is the provision of Article 6 where it is said that all the facilities built without a decision on the building permit or a decision on the approval of construction after 27 November 2015 are not subject to the law and for them, the competent inspector shall make a decision on the destruction that is carried out on the date of its adoption. This kind of regulation will cause certain problems in practice. Why would they cause problems in practice? The solution to the collapse is an administrative act, and if it becomes legally strong against that solution, administrative dispute can be conducted. The administrative court may, on appeal, impose certain temporary measures or even prohibit the implementation of a solution. In particular, I'm sorry that Alexandra's not here, just to make a little controversy, and this is a very good intention, we're in trouble because in this case the solution to the collapse didn't go past the previous procedure, and it's been executed. We don't have two degrees, we don't have a legal remedy, no complaints, no complaints, I'm afraid, through an interrogation of anything, and even by the time we get to the Constitutional Court, this kind of regulation will cause some kind of suspicion. The second, extremely well-intentioned, advice and suggestions is a provision of Article 11. where it is said that, with the other conditions that must be met when it comes to the owner of an object which is not legally built, it is also required to submit an application for property if, in the absence of official records, a tax application is made, of course, where the property tax is determined. Now, there's one problem here because it hasn't previously changed the law relating to tax legislation, so the laws relating to fiscal situations, problems and what can be solved by fiscal means. In particular, everywhere at the level of units of local self-government, tax returns are submitted within an appropriate period of time, or from the date on which an illegal object is started to be used, or from the day on which there is an appropriate solution. In a particular case, it's not clear what it means - unless there's an official record about it. Mostly the Tax Administration keeps records of everything, because in the Tax Administration, applications are submitted in relation to illegal facilities, and then tax on use is paid and users have a duty to pay taxes, not only owners, which means that they are also introduced into certain records and also tax administrations and how they are accounted for. Finally, as far as the Law of Law is concerned, there is something that I would really ask you to consider through amendments that, I hope you will accept, and I'm sure you'll consider them correctly, I'm convinced, a provision that certainly won't be able to pass, at least from the point of view of court practice, which is a denial of a court dispute. What does that mean? This means that if an object that is illegal and owns the facility is located in the zone of the protective belt and may suffer certain consequences from the object of public purpose to give up the dispute on any basis. Denial of a dispute on any basis is something that in court practice implies nothing, or that such a provision cannot, in any case, enter into legal traffic. Why? Everyone has the right to initiate an appropriate judicial procedure, any, judicial, criminal, outsider, etc. And anyone who gives up that right has no legal fact whatsoever, especially in the situation that, eventually, after all this stuff that's written here, there are new circumstances. We lawyers know that there is an institution called the "bencium novorum", which means there are new circumstances compared to the time when a decision was made. If those decisions have been made, and after that new circumstances arise that require that someone really must be protected by any court, either in another way, the right to judicial protection or any kind of protection cannot be denied. Therefore, I think it would be better here if the formulation was that the one who built the facility in the protective belt and could suffer certain consequences, would not seek damages in the event that the potential risk of adverse consequences arises. That's a great formulation. I think that formulation should be implemented in this bill and then we would have absolutely one very clear and one very good definition of a certain legal provision. As for the other parts of the Law on Lawmaking, I must really commend your efforts and the entanglement that concerns everything that has not been solved so far, and now we will be able to resolve yours, at least today I understand it in your presentation, that this law, too, when it comes to the destruction of illegal objects, after all that means the end of the legal process, will go relatively hard, because a huge number of objects that absolutely do not deserve any legalisation, taking into account what all the owners have been doing and what they have done, or abused. I think you have to have support here no matter where anyone sits in this room. Really, extremely honest and realistic. As far as the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction are concerned, here also a qualitative shift involves all the solutions, they mean precision in relation to the previous adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, and there is absolutely no need for any comment, because the formulation of this law is indeed of extreme quality. The only thing I've ever pointed out, and where we obviously haven't met before, and even the last one, has passed the amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, and here we are now, compared to one legal institute. The legal institute is called land for regular use of the facility. The land for the regular use of the facility here is quite clearly defined and it is said to be the land beneath the building and the land around the building but there is a small part missing, and that is the land needed for the regular use of the building and the problem is the real surface of the building plot that later becomes a cadastrian plot. Why? In large buildings, if local self-government defines the area for the formation of a building plot, I speak figuratively, in three ar, and we have a bus station, which in its gabarit has over a hectare, how much land is needed for the regular use of that facility for general purposes. No doubt much more. Can local self-government then say – e, the catastral plot is a building plot of five hectares. He can't. It can't be because it can't be introduced under an appropriate plan act or plan document and it's practically inconclusive, and from another ancient we have a problem because we have a Law on Fundamentals of Legal Relations which also knows the Institute of Land for the Regular Use of Objects where there is no surface, where the surface is unlimited There I would ask you to consider just whether another intervention should be performed, if no one, at least the Committee, is determined to intervene in this part of the Law on Planning and Construction, which is undoubtedly quality, have a slightly more precise and quality solution. On everything else, in order not to take more time to speak to my colleagues, the honourable MPs and in relation to the other laws and to the Law on Planning and Construction, our support is here. In any case, everything we say and in extreme well-meaning to help you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to come to a better solution than any of these, and these are good ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46204	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for us Serbian Radicals was that the Government of the Republic of Serbia withdraw these bill proposals, put on the agenda tomorrow, and that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic do the job, to choose this important function of a man who is professional, who will and who will work in the interests of the state and the people. Since you obviously won't accept it, and the government hasn't accepted it yet, we remind you of the scandal that took place yesterday in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when Zorana Mihajlovic left out the shameful statement by Kyle Scott, who said it was Kosovo, that it wasn't so-called. the state and that it is not so-called. Kosovo's government, but it's officially government and state. Zorana Mihajlovic told some media that she had left it for the roads. It's just amazing that someone gives up the work of the state for the sake of the roads, no matter how significant these paths are. To remind us that Kyle Scott was in government, to attend the signing of memos with the US firm Bechtel and that Zorana Mihajlovic in the morning part of the debate claimed that the memorandum they signed does not mean anything and that it does not mean that the US firm will get jobs on this sea corridor. Of course, if it were done in accordance with the law, it is true that the memorandum is not binding, but obliges the fact that, on the basis of the signed memorandum, other interested investors will not appear, and we support the fact that it has already happened in Croatia, Romania and that this Bechtel in Croatia has been working part of the Split-Dubrovnik road and has been found to have done so without a tender, at a price 30% higher than usual. When the public started buzzing, then their foreign minister, Miomir Zuzulj, resigned. Also, this company, an American, without a tender, worked part of the way through Transylvania. The Romanian government has even, and all of this is written by the German newspaper "Spiggle", said it suspended the European competition regulation for the company to get a job because it must do so. This is only to clarify what Zorana Mihajlovic claimed this morning. As far as these bill proposals are concerned, I guess it was 11 laws, of which nine amendments and additions are best spoken about how high-quality they are, the bill's proposals are, and this practice will show when we talk about some changes for a while, and we'll remind you of that, are inapplicable, some very suspicious of the aspect of constitutionality and in collapsing with other laws, even in a collapsing of some members of these laws or laws that you are now proposing, in conflict with each other. If we had time through the amendments, we'd tell you in detail, and we'd write about the amendments, and we'd see how you'd react. Essentially, the most important thing here is this bill on legislation, because this law, for this law, is interested in all of Serbia, and I don't know why you're turning your head and you think it isn't, I guess it's more important to you to do this on construction products, because it ordered you the EU. But this law on law enforcement, legalization, obtaining building permits, whatever it is you've been baptized by now, you've been able to call it this time, because here you haven't shown a shred of intent to do anything to speed up the legalization process, but on the contrary, you're only offering what you're going to bring down, under what conditions you're going to crash, how much time you're going to speed up to the destruction of objects, and I remind you, in 2015, when you've praised this law that's no good now, that you said that five laws, so many times the law has been changed, then called about legalization or whatever, you've said today when the forest minister was, that five laws didn't bring us the result, and that it's brought up a million and a half of illegally built objects. That's, of course, true. This is the 13th change, you have already changed more times than this Forester, that law and you have said, by the time the law is passed, and in 2015, for your information, you tell the MPs, we have made sure that this law has no sublaw, that this law enters into force on the eighth day, after the adoption and that at the same time we can start to implement, or implement, this law in practice, i.e. at the same time local self-government, cities, states are going into law. Nothing has been done since then. On the fingers of one hand, you can count how many objects were legalized, how sloppyly they were done, and today you try to say that the inspectors are doing, some bad, some good, there are corrupt, there are no corrupts, so if only what we Serbian did were saying, you've specifically turned your attention, that's all you've been doing, and that only those inspectors in these cases have been replaced, and you've started proper proceedings against them, many of them would have been better done in this area. You say that under this law you will only legalize what was built by 27 November 2015. How do you think you solve the problem of that, and a lot of it is, somewhere you said that satellite footage showed that there are now about five million objects, and of course not all residential and business facilities, there are various sheds, auxiliary facilities, etc. Anyway, at least a million and a half objects that should be legalized. What's going to happen, why would those people who built after 27th of November 2015 suffer, why would they suffer from the public authorities and authorities of local self-government? We don't abolize people who built without a building permit, but the state has to take responsibility once, a good part of the responsibility for why it was ever built without building permits. How many parts of Serbia are not covered by detailed plans? How many people do you have who have their own plot, can't get a permit and a permit to build? How do you think you're gonna end your life because you're not doing it? If the family had a house on one plot, and part of that plot is a building plot, the rest behind is a garden, and in that garden they can't get permission to build a new house, and the daughters got married, the sons got married, the families expanded, and because their municipality and their ministry didn't do their job, these people should all be brought into a house that was once built, when they had enough 50 squares. You have to take part of the responsibility and you cannot transfer your responsibility to the citizens. You have to find a solution, actually the solution is simple. When you pass this law and it comes into force, it must be that day D to legalize everything that's been built. You don't have the right to do something that's been built for three years, because the inspector wasn't enough, because they were corrupt, because they agreed, you do it over the weekend, and I'll come tomorrow and I'll find the completed facility, because these inspectors took money for themselves and for the people in the ministry and for the people in the local self-government. You can turn your head all you want, it's absolutely true. That's what all Serbia knows, that's what people know. You know, when a man says he's given three thousand euros not to break down his facility, I'm not going to tell him what it's about, because he's still in the legal phase so that a man doesn't suffer because of it, and they come to him after five days and say, "This object has to collapse." He says, "How are you people?" I'm told. He says you gave the wrong man. So this is happening and you have to accept it as a fact. You say you don't have enough inspectors. All of you ministers when you come here in every area you whine here to the MPs you don't have enough inspectors. So what don't you have? Why don't you hire people? And we're not saying that it may not really be a lack of building inspectors, but first clean these corrupts, bring them in new ones, send them to the field, and everything that, therefore, if the law comes into force on October 20th, everything that is built afterwards must be stopped, not basically, in the first ace. It's the only way you can finally solve this problem of lawless construction and that from what was built you're looking at maximum to get building permits. Of course, there are a number of objects like Tomislav Nikolic's cottages that have to collapse, there are objects that are near the airport runway, etc., you have predicted here that they can't ask for compensation because of the noise possible, but there may be problems here and that something is expanding, etc. So, you know, I know that, let's say, one object was built on a network, or someone, as it is called, a gas pipeline, of course it must not be legalized. But it doesn't have to collapse. It doesn't have to collapse. When he needs someone, he won't move the pipeline because of him. You know, there's no, you're here to show that you're interested in breaking down as many objects as possible, and the interest has to be to keep as many objects as possible and to really stop the illegal construction. But not from this November 2015, but from the day the law comes into force. You've passed this previous law without sublegal acts. You're now predicting 60 days for this one. We told you there was no way you could, say, get legalisation back from municipalities, local self-government, from city municipalities to Belgrade's Assembly, you did it. And what happened? Trucks have driven materials and items to the City Hall, and now trucks are going to return them to city halls, and they're going to waste a lot of time again and work won't be done again. What's scariest about this is that you said that the condition, one of the conditions for legalization, that the owner of the facility has to provide you with proof that he filed a tax return, so the tax has to pay for the object that you plan to take down, but that's why you've provided penalties for Electrodistribution and other public utility companies that are connected to electricity, to the plumbing, to the sewerage. Well, that's just amazing. It's just amazing that you have someone who's built a house without a building permit and you tell them – I'm not giving you any electricity, no water, no sewers. You can't say that. You can't repressive measures that way to fight what you obviously don't want to do and all the other laws are the same bad in one way or another. Unfortunately, we don't have enough time to talk about it, but we'll hear from you through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46206	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46207	I mean, I really don't want to argue with you, Mrs. Radeta, because I don't think that would be right, but maybe you can talk about me whatever you want like you're going to, maybe beat yourself up from this summer with your statements and your tweets. But what I think is important to the citizens of Serbia, it sounds nice. It sounds very nice to say – nothing should be destroyed, nothing should be done, how they passed this law, etc. That may sound nice, but it brings us, or we continue with certain problems, which means we don't have a system in place and we have to solve the issue of illegally built objects and those that are illegally built after the adoption of the Law of Law and those arrogant investors who continue to do so. And that's one of the reasons why changes and additions are made. Everything that could have been mutilated, so a list was made, as you know, 1.6 million objects are listed. For the first time in 30 years, someone even wrote down all those objects. That means everything we can legalize, of course, to be legal, but there are certain objects that were built without a building permit and that's not what you like to say, the poor part of Serbia that had no option at all, so here's some object without permission. No, on the contrary, these are very proud investors who simply have to be sanctioned, because it is not good for the country itself. Now, let's just explain a little bit about the Law on the Law of Lawring a few important things. So you said that this law should actually help all those other ones, so that they built after November 2014. I would like to know clearly, and when you speak – these are people who need help, etc., clearly and loudly – these are the people you have violated, therefore, the laws. These are people who did not work in accordance with the law and who illegally built buildings. These are not people who, in accordance with the laws, have applied for building permits, location conditions, building permits, and, as a whole, as a normal world, must have built buildings. So these are the people who broke the laws. So, this law and the previous law is an attempt to solve what was built illegally, especially what is on public surfaces, where it should never be found, after all, that's what you've mentioned. It is certainly a priority, and it must be removed, but also as a prevention to reduce, or to stop completely all those who will continue and certainly try, because that is probably the custom, which will continue to, or try to build illegally. It's perfectly normal and natural to ask, among other things, for a certificate of payment of property tax and it's perfectly normal not to allow what's already in a particular bill, so that we don't allow electricity, water and everything else to be connected. Or, you think everyone should build wherever they want and then still allow that infrastructure to work, and at the same time we have urban unregulated objects, on the other hand, that we have what's called a municipal infrastructure or an electrical infrastructure that can't support so many buildings built. I think order must be brought. I remind you once again, they're people, they're economic entities that didn't comply with the law, they were in violation of the law. These aren't people who did their job fairly, built a house, or an object. So, ultimately, in all the previous laws, as far as I know, it's a crime, and many criminal charges have been raised for such matters. I hope this law can speed up solving these problems, but it is even more important to have a prevention for future or for trying to build illegally built objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-17-0.u46208	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
