ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia remains consistent with its established way of working to bring together the incompatible, whether it is the draft laws or agreements. In a bunch of legislative proposals for today's agenda, I'm going to talk about a traffic law that has been the least spoken of here so far. This is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. Of all the legislative proposals, which have come to this parliament to vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia, this is one of the worse-conceived and designed legislative proposals. Why is that? I do not see any rational reason other than perhaps in the fact that our premature Europeans are in a hurry because of EU membership, in which the resolution minister is present today. If all this is true and true, I'll try to prove it in the next few minutes. Serbia is already before the EU, meaning to the EU it is part of the European navigation system. The Danube is a central European river and from its spring beneath Mount Schwarz to its inflow into the Black Sea, without exaggeration we can say that it is the most beautiful through our country. And if we know it's already sailed from the city of Regensburg in Germany, then we're sailing down Europe, but also along Europe. Our accession problems are stuck in some upstream shallow. The existing Law on navigation has no less than 291 members. That's over 100 pages of text. Changes and additions were made in 2010, 2012, 2015, and again in 2015, so in 2016, when we MPs of the SRS pointed out to you and warned you that it was a bad law, that it was glommatic, that it was difficult to apply. We have then offered you constructive amendments which you have smoothly refused, so that, with a later called mind, with less corrections, we are shyly installing into the text of the law what we were proposing at the time. I already said the law has a 291th member. In 136, some major or minor changes, grooming and clarifications were made. If we add the proposed 62 amendments to the previous amendments and additions of the 136 members, the number of 198 amendments and additions to the 291st term shall be obtained. That's 70% of the law. The Serbian Radical Party believes that a new law should have been passed here. So all that is legal norm, install into the text of the law, and what is technical, such as granting consent, approval, fees, incomes, fees, technical norms to transfer to sublegal acts and thus relieve the law, relax it, make it more understandable and more enforceable. It's a simple technical law, which means hard to get by, with reduced practical potential. All of these changes and additions are part of the arsenal of European law enforcement. It is incomprehensible for us from the SRS that only now someone after seven and more years has come to realize that they have arranged this specific and very important area, which is more fully regulated by all aspects of the crew's working time. In addition, the law defines two new concepts of docking and boat mooring. Article 62 of the proposed amendments and supplementation is a special story. A transitional provision has been laid down governing the way of recognition of ship's documents, which regulates the ability of ships to sail until the conclusion of the EU and the Republic of Serbia agreements, or administrative agreements concluded between the administrations and the competent members, the EU Member States' bodies, as well as the Agreement on mutual recognition of ship's documents, which determine the capacity of vessels to sail between the Central Committee for the Navigation of the River Rajna and the Republic of Serbia. Norma is on the day of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. The Union's internal navigation testimonies are recognised as being issued in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, you know it's a date that's on a long stick. Regardless of all the wishes of our Eurofants, it is therefore very unserious to tie something to uncertain deadlines. If that's an example of this government's visionaryism, then so be it. Everyone has the right to their delusions, but they must not be part of legal solutions. Our waters of Danube, Sava and Tisa are both international waters, and they do not separate peoples and countries, but bring them together. Foreign ships and vessels cruise our waters even though, in addition to health and education, we can deal with Europe, then it's in this area. Well, so are these amendments and additions to this proposal for a law on inland navigation are a good contribution in that direction, to shipping law and the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. Good efforts in our country do not have sufficient levels of agility and entrepreneurship, as our legislators always wave on what is a kind of order of coercion, morality, acceptance of tasks by harmonisation and compliance with EU regulations by ignoring our legislative system and Serbia's legislation. Only responding in the assembly benches of the European Parliament directive, the EU directive. The primary motive of these changes and additions should be regulation to introduce order into this area as well as to increase the level of security on rivers and lakes and to introduce legal and any other security for citizens, businesses and any other entities that regulate this law. The negative consequences must not be allowed, and only those with a fatal outcome, I will remind you of the case of the Silver Lake when two students were killed because of the neglect of the owner of the paedolins and teachers, or a few months ago when two people were killed when their boat hit a foreigner, I mean Bulgarian. I am not convinced that Article 28 of the proposed amendments and additions resolves the issue of boat safety on its own drive, only by compulsory wearing life-saving vests. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the government's technical workshop for making legal proposals, this is another primarily technical proposal for legal, procedural, inspection and technical harmonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35606	Thank you, fellow Boyic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35607	Thank you for your comments, and I will only have a few arguments on your comment on this law, on the proposal to amend and supplement this law. First, the problem of the gray economy in water traffic and the issue of gravel, you asked -- and why it hasn't been done before. I have to admit that no one has even started to work until the previous and this government has first dealt with serious crime, so in water traffic, first of all in the gray economy, that is, illegal gravel, sandboxes, etc. I don't want to talk about the process and the way we did it. But now we're in a situation where we can really say through this law that we're finally going to solve this problem. That means the transitional period for the gravel and sandboxes that we've listed, we know exactly where they are, we know exactly what they're doing, we know exactly how we're going to get past it in the next period and just put them in a set of port areas, port infrastructures. When you mentioned the second issue of the EU and the directive, if we do not agree with the EU directives, then our ships will not be able to sail outside the Danube, they will not be able to sail in Paradise, we will have a problem first of all, because we will not be compatible, in terms of the technical standards that are being sought for us. The same applies, therefore, to the members of our crew then they will not be able to work. So, everything has its own reason. The essence of this law is not, therefore, in one of the points of the reasoning there is an alignment with EU directives, but I really think it is primary that we should do it for us. So, because of our country, from the gray economy, ship's IDs, working hours. This is what we must do for Serbia, for our people, for our economy and for our water transport, in accordance with European and world standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35608	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dubravko Bojic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35609	The Serbian Radical Party has no problem accepting and welcoming everything that is good, which is progressive, which is in the interest of our people. Well, so I heard yesterday that the problem of illegal gravel is solved by this law, that someone there is about 148 and that two million damages, two million euros on an annual level of damage. So, we welcome that initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35610	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35611	I would like to thank the chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of Parliament, given that the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Svetlana Miladanovic has already announced that our parliamentary group will support this set of laws that we are discussing, in this direction I will make a contribution and focus my discussion on only a few of the proposed set of laws. I would particularly like to comment on the draft law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and waterway cadasar. Dear Minister, I think we will fully agree with a fact that has been burdening the building block for a long time, and that is that it is a catastrophe of immobility that is completely unsettled and incomplete. That the vast number of immovableities outside the reach of the catastra, that the vast number of immovableities are not recorded, simply in the catastra opera and that, by some of our deep conviction, the highest degree of responsibility is borne by units of local self-government. Why? Well, because cities and municipalities so far have not literally done anything that at least what is undeniable can be entered into the Operation of the Real Estate Catastrophe Office. Here I also come from the fact that all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, of course and cities, especially those who have missed opportunities for decades to enroll in the immovable assets of the catastra operative. Of course, there are certain reasons that burden the possibility of enrollment, such as the conduct of disputes, mostly administrative disputes that you know to last an extremely long time. The problem of restitution, which also significantly burdens enrolment in the Office for the Immobilization Catastrophe, given that the restitutional proceedings also take a very long time, both in both the first and second stages, and in the procedure before the administrative court, i.e. by the administrative court. I would only ask to be allowed to lead this dialogue parliamentaryly in spirit as this Parliament deserves. Furthermore, I would like to point out to the Minister, it is the fact that we are now in a situation where many of the procedures that even involve the introduction of notes or remarks in the Office of the Immobility Catalogue are not recorded, neither as premises nor as observations. That's a big problem. I believe that this is the basic motive and reason why the proposing, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, has decided to "e.g. by official duty" order public authorities to order all that they have to deliver to the Immobility Catastrophe Office. We, in the SPS parliamentary group, have a single depression here, so we ask that you accept a very well-intentioned caution that will certainly be analyzed here by the profession, and can cause consequences. It is that the law, i.e. the proposal of the law, stipulates that the service does not verify the legality of a public or public document. Why can it be a problem? Remember only in 2014 when we passed the Law on Transport of Immobilities, when we had in fact caused a reaction to the lawyership in terms of the consequences that had extremely adverse effects for the courts that were blocked, because of the strike of lawyers, and it was that there was a struggle, that public notebooks could be prevented from drawing up contracts, but only that they could confirm them, or Solomonise them. What's the danger here now? The danger is that it is the public notebooks that violate this provision of the law that we passed in 2014 even draw up a contract and confirm it themselves or solemnize it, and that this service does not verify it, but accepts it as a legal basis for the change of property rights or other rights in the service of an immobility cadasar. Personally, I think that in this direction it must be taken into account that simply someone at the small door does not introduce something that tried illegally and illegally to introduce a system when we were just in 2014 passing the Law on Transport of Immobility. Furthermore, what I think is important is the fact that the law proposed that all changes be made in the Office of the Real Estate Catastrophe Office by 31 December 2020. Dear Minister, do you think this deadline is too ambitious in December 31st 2020, given that by then, numerous restitution procedures will not be completed, that numerous administrative disputes will certainly not end? The administrative court has very few judges, a huge number of cases. Procedures before the Administrative Court take three, four years, sometimes more. Do you believe it, I think not, that by 31 December 2020 all property-legal relations, all property-legal issues at the level of units of local self-government, will we be able to complete a variety of procedures, etc? I don't think so. So it's likely we'll have to bring new or amendments and additions to the law on the extension of this deadline. I don't mind that, but I think the deadline is too ambitious. The SPS Group has delivered to you, or to the Government, amendments, I hope that some of them will rightly respect you. In the end, I want to determine myself very briefly under one more law, which is the Law on special conditions for the realisation of a project to build apartments for members of the security forces. Of course, such a legal proposal deserves all praise and has unreserved support and all prejudices related to this law should certainly be rejected, or not accepted, given that they are more politics or populism than something that contributes to the quality of this law. It is a lex specialis, I have no problem saying it's a lex specialis, but it's about those target groups that deserve to be covered by this law. If it is secured somewhere around 170 locations, as I recall, in Vranj and Nis and 400 locations in Belgrade, it is certainly a significant shift to some social, existential and other issues that deserve to be resolved. It is only necessary to consider that other units of local self-government take over this type of obligation and continue with this practice of building apartments, which are certainly necessary. Once again, support for this set of laws, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35612	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35613	Mr. Marinkovic, I am really surprised that you are allowing such a collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly and is injured by a member of 107 who says that such a thing is not allowed. During the entire address of the previous speaker, there was a waiter walking around here, a number of associates who came with the minister, I never thought there were any more, 16, I don't know if anyone was staying at the ministry, obviously there's no local campaign now, there's nothing to do, so they're sitting here. But this isn't a bar, this isn't a buffet, this isn't a coffee shop. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not serve to have the minister and associates drinking coffee, so someone black, someone with milk, someone espresso, so it's nice to list the waiter, and then clink, add sugar, etc. Something like that doesn't work in the National Assembly. There's a buffet outside, and he can have coffee, and he can go outside and drink it. What's next? Would you be hungry to order a bottle and some kebabs? Here, they're asking some of the kind of host I am. I'm a good host when someone comes to my house, and this is the House of the National Assembly and the people who came here have guest status. They should above all respect the host, respect the citizens of Serbia, respect the MPs, not laugh, not drink coffee, not resent when told. There is something called the rules of fine conduct and dress in the National Assembly, and you, Mr. Chairman, are obliged to warn them when they enter the National Assembly Hall, and some of them should have been returned from the entrance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35614	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. The fact is that the Deputy Prime Minister came with, you counted, 16 associates, I don't know, I didn't count, but it is a large number, which is exactly how much he respects the National Assembly, MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We will continue to be good hosts, you know that people sit here all day and don't have as much freedom as we do to get out and take a break. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35615	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35616	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Here you are, Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35617	Thank you, SPS, who will support the set of these laws. I'm a few answers to a few dilemmas. So, when we talk about the draft law on enrolment in the cadastre, the old contracts will, of course, continue to be checked, but everything that is new and what has already been checked once, or what the judgments are really unnecessary now is that we are now again two, three, four times checking, a team before the aim of this law is, among other things, efficiency and everything else. So, as far as the ambitious deadline is concerned, I have to tell you that I love ambitious deadlines. Just think of building permits, that's enough. We had a nine-month deadline for construction permits for all of Serbia and we ended it, and now this deadline is much longer than nine months. As for the Law on Special Conditions and criteria for building apartments for security forces, other units of local self-government have received a questionnaire from the ministry first to give us opportunities for a possible location for building apartments, and on the other hand, the National Security Council Office has also surveyed interested members in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, so not only in these six units of local self-government and cities, so this will certainly be extended further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35618	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35619	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, just for better understanding, it's not about writing, acts, court decisions, it's about soloized documents by public notebooks. I also perform as a MP and member of the SPS, a Socialist, but also a lawyer and protect the interests of the lawyer in the sense in which the lawyer requires the legality, clarity and accuracy of the law in their practical application. What seems to me to be a problem here, the lawyer has raised her voice, raised her voice when it was most needed, to prevent public notebooks from doing what they should and only have to do lawyers. If there is no verification and if, through the prism of the examination of everything that implies the legality of the work of public notebooks, it is allowed that the immovableity cadastra services enter even what public notebooks make up instead of lawyers or ultimately those who are authorized to do so and the excessive formation of the contract, then we are directly contrary to the provisions of the Immobility Transport Act. That's the only reason I reacted. Otherwise you're all right. As far as the preambitious deadline is concerned, no problem, it will be extended, it is important that we address issues that are cruel and existential, and they refer to those we are obliged to help, which are members of the Security Service.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35620	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35621	Just a little supplement. Since 2020, lawyers have been given the opportunity to issue, too, a list of immovableities, so, as public notebooks rightly do. Otherwise, the Bar Association took part in the drafting of this law. The Ministry of Justice, among other things, represented the interests of both and each other and only when we made it all up, so it took a long time to make the law. So this law wasn't made for half a year, but for God's sake, for a year and a half, just to reconcile all the opposers, at some point on the side, so when we did all this and got consent, it was only then that we performed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35622	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35623	Thank you. Respected ministry representatives, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, first of all, to start with the proposal for a law on special conditions for the construction of apartments, for the realisation of housing projects for members of security forces. It's certainly a nice gesture and positive discrimination among security forces. We have a duty to say that these measures have been taken before. We had projects to build apartments for the Army before. The apartments, though, have been built too long, have been built in worse locations and have finally not significantly improved the material position of members of the Army so far because their problems have nevertheless been systemically and these projects have mostly come down to passing marketing. In the United States, for decades, there has been something called "Servicemembers Civil Ref Act" and it is a law that contains, for example, many solutions prescribed in order to put security forces in a special position, given the special social role they play in society. For example, it's impossible to evict an army tenant if he owes less than $1,200 for rent. They are protected from forced collection of tax debts, credit card debts, financial institutions must, in certain cases, obtain court's permission to file charges against them, it is impossible to cancel their rent when they get a transfer and so on. So much could be done without this law for security forces, but there is a need for systematic thinking and long-term strategy, not occasional and special solutions that are not enough. It's a little depression about this law. We see that the construction of such apartments is scheduled to be released from all relevant taxis and other fiscal charges related to construction. I draw attention to the tax for changing purposes from agricultural to building land, it is very often a problem in construction because for the payment of these fees very often by local tax administrations are determined by too high, not too high, often twice as high. Maybe it wouldn't be bad, in cooperation with the finance ministry, to do something a little bit. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic, there is nothing in the proposed amendments regarding the regulation of taxis, but the minister mentioned the problem of Kargou in the introduction of the law and brought up her court. Article 87 of this Act states that taxi transport is carried out on the basis of a licence granted to the legal person and the undertaking, whose particular activity is taxi transport and which is registered in the register of economic operators for the performance of that activity. The authorisation shall be issued by the municipal, or city or administration responsible for traffic operations. So taxi transport is something that's in local jurisdiction under the letter of the law we're discussing today. In this regard, the ministry cannot rule under which law to register and operate, as it is well known who in this country under which the rules grant work permits if they are special law for a particular activity are provided for. It is also known in this country who is in charge of law enforcement, and these are inspection and similar services. In particular, it is a Republic road traffic inspector. It is his job to determine whether the drivers of a company in the Business Registers Agency are properly registered with a code of activity 4932 - taxi transport and whether there are any conditions for their withdrawal. So that's where jurisdiction is prescribed. The ministry may have an opinion on this, but it is not good for the public to judge and present its court in advance. If the competent inspection services find no reason to ban a person’s work, then someone must be able to work. Anyone who has been violently prevented from doing this must be sanctioned. If the ministry wants to ban the work of someone who works under another law, let the ministry propose to amend and supplement certain laws to the National Assembly, so that if such changes and additions can only be prohibited by someone. It's just that no one in this country can be banned from working, just because a social group has something against it, whether it's right or wrong. Let me tell you, fostering proper relations with innovation or the conflicting interests of different social groups is also a business of social elites, including government, and the degree of conflict in society and attitude to innovations say that this job has been done. Unfortunately, I'd say bad. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety, no amendments to Article 264(5) of the Road Safety Act are provided for, therefore, for the proposed amendments to the provisions of Article 264(5), which explicitly stipulates that a regular six-month-old technical examination must be subject to motor vehicles over 15 years of age. The interior minister said nothing will happen since the six-month technical review. It wouldn't be a bad idea to get a legal interpretation that there won't be anything when that legal provision doesn't change now. Otherwise, we change the law less than two months after it has entered into force, so it wouldn't be bad if we planned a little bit better so that we didn't change the same law every two months. In this case, even most of the changes are due to the technical errors of the previous adoption of the law. Finally about the Law of Railways. We are of the opinion of the SP MP that he is insufficiently obliged by participants in rail traffic, to enable full availability of services to persons with disabilities, because no minimum level of service and accessibility is prescribed anywhere by law. It is prescribed that railway undertakings are those who establish a standard of quality in terms of providing assistance to persons with disabilities and reduced mobility, but is not a state in the letter of law. Railway undertakings and station managers, with the participation of disabled organisations, establish non-discriminatory rules, but however, the minimum standard is not prescribed and there is no obligation to accept a minimum level of requirements for disabled persons. Tickets are sold to people with disabilities at no extra cost, which is fine, but it is not enough because it is useless if they have access to the platform and train disabled. So, simply, disability organisations are forced to negotiate on their own with participants in railway transport, because the minimum is nowhere legally prescribed and as such is not conditioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35624	Thank you, colleague Gjuric. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35625	At first, I thought I wasn't answering anything, but I can't help but answer you. Let me start with the first of your qualifications of the law, a special law to build apartments for security forces. You say – nice gesture, positive discrimination, passing marketing. All those epithets you gave had nothing to do with what's in the law. So the law is very clear. In a special way, it regulates the criteria of how we're going to solve over 18,000, or maybe 30,000 people who are employed by the police and the military and the BIA, and they couldn't solve their housing issues. It's not one serious project, it's not just a housing settlement project, it's a problem, it's a project that will certainly lead to one economic, additional economic recovery when we talk about construction and when we talk about GDP, we're not talking about revenues that units of local self-government will be able to charge as income from taxes. With taxi drivers, you're directly in favour, I have to say now, for the abuse of practically law because all of what you said about taxi associations and that the state has no right, or the Ministry of Traffic, to either speak about whether or not someone exists, to be absolutely clear for everyone. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Transport, any other ministry, supports any kind of application that will lead to this and within which a taxi traffic can occur only under one condition that is in line with the Law on Transport of Road Passengers. You can't abuse the Tourism Act, no one can do it, you can register under the Tourism Act, you can't actually do a limo service, you can't rent cars with a driver, you can't actually do a taxi ride. So, this is a regulated state, which is why the Tourism Act will also be brought into line with the Passenger Transport Act. All those who operate a taxi work, and not registered under the Law on the Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic, abuse every other law and cannot work. So, in order not to replace the thesis, no one has anything against "Kar Gou" or anyone else, but they have to register under the Passenger Transport Act. Everything else is a direct abuse, unfair competition and a serious problem in what is called a kind of public transport. Technical examinations. Members of the law that are now changing in amendments to the Transport Safety Act are, above all, only speeds. Meanwhile, we also had a proposal, or statement by the interior minister, that there would be no two technical reviews. I cannot change within these members now, because we are not changing those members, but I believe that the Ministry of Interior will come out very quickly with a proposal to the government, and therefore to parliament, to change the members involved in the two technical examinations, which, among other things, was confirmed by the interior minister yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35626	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35627	Just a short replica. You will allow the right of the MP to base his political position in relation to a special law on building apartments for members of security forces on skepticism, and this skepticism is the product of earlier experiences that go back to the past in several levels of government and the effects that such solutions have produced in the past. When it comes to "Kar Gou" and taxi transport, I ask the minister not to give me the view that I advocate the abuse of the law. I didn't say that. I'm in favour of a strict division of jurisdiction and I appeal to the Ministry not to bring his court to the public through the competent inspection services. Secondly, the question is, is the law broken, not abused? It's about legality, so it's about legality, not legitimacy. Because if we are to be in the field of legitimacy, we can ask the question of the way in which the ruling majority in this assembly conducts an amendment debate. I think it's illegal, but the ruling majority will say it's legal, because it's according to the Rules of Procedure. So let's stick to legality, not legitimacy, and leave it to the competent inspection services that they bring their own judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35628	Thank you, colleague Gjuric. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35629	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister of Associates, I will pay some attention to a law that is very important, and I have the impression that it will go a little undetected, and that is the proposal for a law on the Central Record of Real Owners. Although I am not one of those whose journey to the European Union is the goal at all costs, this law is necessary for the Republic of Serbia, because simply a common denominator for all well-intentioned people in the world, including all countries, is the fight against money laundering, the fight against terrorism, and today it is directly connected to one another. By passing such a law, except for these direct ones, we will also have indirect benefits, which can also be enjoyed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in different ways. It is good that it is clearly clear here who can and in what way has the right and availability of information about the real owners, what must be noted, or what must be available to the real owners. Because we've had examples in the practice so far that just between those that you're predicting this bill as future obligations to provide data on real owners, business associations and associations or, as I say, groups of citizens, as we like to say, that they simply have to give all the information, and not hide behind something that isn't really allowed. So we had and we have serious doubts that some groups of citizens who participated in the elections were privileged, their origins of money they obtained and used in the campaign were not subject to verification by the Anti-Corruption Agency, which we have already pointed out, we were unable to get into the data on who was the real owner of some companies that were financing individual presidential failed campaigns, and this is about huge amounts of money that are seriously suspected of coming from exactly the zone that this law wants to warn, precisely from the same sources dealing with the financing of terrorism in the world. Therefore, the benefits of all this are multiple. What is important and important is that it is clearly prescribed who, when, how, and under what conditions, can have and how to use these data. In the end, no one can hide behind phantom firms that will be established abroad, and then those in Serbia show up as founders of allegedly domestic firms, deal with the fraud of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, monitors money for those for whom it should not be done. One more thing, though it is the subject which is obviously the most popular and it is clear why it is, and it is a project to build apartments for security forces. I think it's very important, and I don't need to talk about it. It's a thing that without these diabolical comments, as we've had the opportunity to hear, we should support it. In fact, I point out that even from existing resources only in 2017 and 2018, the Republika Srpska Army resolved the issue for 700 of its members, which was not the case until 2012. By 2012, we had the case that certain ministers, Mr Sutanovac and others, felt that solving the problem of residential issues of members of the Army was a solution to their own housing problems by obtaining return pastures, buildings, etc. and probably the value mentioned in the debates only these days exceeds that the abuses at that time lost more than 10,000 apartments for members of the Army and other security forces. The Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will support these laws and we provide any support to speed up the work of all state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35630	Thank you. National MP Sonja Pavlovic is not present. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35631	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honored Minister with Associates, certainly there are legal solutions that are very good in front of us and that we will support them in the day of the vote. Yesterday, the Sandzak MPs spoke of certain problems and catastrophic road infrastructure in that part of the country, efforts made by the Serbian government, along with their partners, especially the Republic of Turkey and the necessity to expand this to build non-existent infrastructure, such as railways and airports, which is certainly very important, and I will not waste time on this subject. What I want to do specifically concerns the Law of Ways. In fact, several members of this law talk about the protective width of the belt around the roads in extra-populated places, and that is very well defined. But I didn't find it in that law what about the seat belt in the inhabited areas? We have a big problem, let's say, in these areas of Sanjay when it comes to state roads, especially the first row roads, the Ibar highway as road 22, the first row state road and, say, road 29, the New Pazar-Senica, which are both important and which connect several states, but whose safety is not particularly well done for the reasons that it passes through several inhabited places, specifically through Novi Pazar, close to at least six, seven elementary schools, where several thousand students pass through these roads daily and life-threatening. I mean, for example, on the belt from Novopazarska Banja to the city center, where we don't have a sidewalk at all, and where children pass by every day and are life-threatening in that position or some other settlement. Similarly, and the road, as I said, 29, which is the state path of the first B row, which passes through several settlements, specifically the settlements of Selakovac and Dojevic, where several thousand children and students, who are very threatened because sidewalks are either narrowed or do not exist at all, and we do not say that there is a road signalling, especially this light, very poorly done. We have talked in the city parliament many times about these problems. Each time they told us that it was not their jurisdiction, but the responsibility of the ministry and the Serbian government, that these roads were in the jurisdiction of "The Way of Serbia" and that they should be addressed for the solution to this problem. So I'm using this opportunity to appeal to you, Minister, to really do something about the road signalling and building additional walking zones, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, especially along the state roads that go near schools, because these schools are 100 to 500 meters away from such roads and children through narrow throats really have to go through these frequency roads and of course they're life-threatening, especially since parents have to follow those children and then waste valuable time that they could use for some other useful things. Also, what I want to do specifically concerns public roads within local communities. In the city, we have a very large expansion of housing building in Novi Pazar, which is very good. However, we also have traffic problems, as local authorities have introduced a tax on those investors who cannot provide parking or garage, they have to pay 7.5 thousand per parking spot, but also in the regulation introduced that the city is not obliged and will not provide parking elsewhere. There are the citizens most damaged, because the investor pays the city's tax neatly, meets the criteria, the city gets tighter because these people, who move into these apartments, get an apartment, but they don't have a parking space, and we're really safe on that side. Please try to do something to make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35632	Thanks, buddy. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35633	About the seat belt in the populated place you asked about. Article 34. The bill of law, so please take a look so I don't read in front of everyone here. In any case, there are municipal roads and there is a knowledge of what is the task of municipal urbanists, five meters along the municipal roads. As for these other complaints you told me from the municipality, it's really the task and the work of the local self-government unit. The government won't deal with parking places in the municipalities, but if you can't quite agree to, call, so we'll deal with it, but by then, please, it can still be solved, I'm sure, because we have really good co-operation in municipalities, and also in the municipality of Novi Pazar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35634	The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35635	Thank you. I would like, if you can, to comment on the state roads that pass through populated places, such as Ibarska highway number 22, first row state route and 29 Novi Pazar – Sjenica, near schools. There is indeed a catastrophic situation and Serbia's roads are responsible for building sidewalks, light signals, providing a walking passage, as there are thousands of children passing there every day who are life-threatening.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35636	Thanks, buddy. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35637	I don't think there's a part of Serbia where there are situations where the road manager, when we talk about state roads, and even when we talk about those roads that are within the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, that the road manager and the Ministry didn't react when it was security, and especially when we talk about schools and near schools. Signalling is something that should be in the jurisdiction of local self-government. They often don't have any money, so that's what the road manager still does. So everything that exists and everything that comes as a requirement from the local self-government unit, and they can't, say, respect it, they don't have enough money, we really find common ways here. We'll sort that out. We'll see. First we'll see if what you're saying is, 1,000 children are at risk, right, so if it is true, then we'll deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35638	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35639	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given the short time at my disposal, I will only talk about the laws in the railway area. We started serious reforms in this sector in 2013 when we passed two important system laws that we tried to stop the collapse of railway infrastructure and the collapse of rail transport quality, whether it was passenger transport or goods transport, or freight. The truth is, we did pass one law in 2005, but even according to those who participated in the draft law, the implementation of it was very little. So these two laws I'm talking about, which we passed in 2013 are the Law on Railways and the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways. The two laws at that time represented a significant step forward when it comes to the railway sector. Of course, they have proved to have certain drawbacks. Among other things, there have been changes in some EU directives, as it is living matter and are constantly changing. One new directive was adopted in 2012 and there was a need, firstly, for amendments and additions to these laws in 2015 and then for the adoption of three new laws, i.e. the Law on Railways, the Law on Safety in Railway Traffic and the Law on Interoperability of the Railway System. Why do we have three laws now? I think it's very important to understand. There's been some confusion, misunderstandings, misunderstandings, whatever you want, when it comes to the merger of two substances into one law, that is, the safety of rail traffic and interoperability. Also, I don't think I should explain to anyone how important these two areas really are and that they really deserve to be found in special legal solutions. I'm talking about the security of traffic that I'm sure every citizen understands how important it is for us, and interoperability is something that, by applying all the standards prescribed in this law, we should be returned to the rail map of Europe from which we, I'm afraid, have begun to disappear slowly, because many carriers are bypassing Corridor 10, i.e. increasingly using the corridor via Bulgaria and Romania. Of course, these three laws have no intensity, nor can they solve all problems in the railways overnight. These are problems that have been accumulated for decades, not to say, almost half a century, but they certainly represent a good basis for us to continue and complete the transformation process that we started in 2015 when we divided the railway system into three independent companies and that we are going even more strongly into investment in our railway sector, which is very important for both the economy and the citizens, and for the country in general. So, just work on all three pillars, as you said in your opening statement, which is the legal framework, transformation and investment, we can expect the railways to have the significance they deserve in the future. The problems of the railway are not since yesterday and that we understand the problem with the railways is not only Serbia. The railway sector is almost around the world and in the developed world is not very profitable and not very profitable. Of course, there are reasons that go deep into the past, which have deep roots. In fact, let's say that we're looking at passenger traffic, 60 years ago, Western European countries were developed, and I would say first of all the United States, began to invest heavily in the development of road infrastructure, resulting in a significant increase in car and truck traffic, which, of course, reduced on the one hand, passenger traffic in rail traffic, i.e. passenger transport, and on the other, freight transport due to increased truck traffic. At the same time, we have a boom in airplane traffic, which I'm sure Mr. Ilic could tell us a lot about, which made this traffic, or this kind of traffic, much more accessible in a large number of users, which, of course, reduced passenger traffic again, when we talk about rail traffic, without talking about the appearance of a lou skater, what impact it had on rail traffic. Also, in the last 20 years, the service sector has been growing far faster than the manufacturing sector, i.e. the non-production sector is growing faster than the manufacturing sector, which is traditionally based on rail, which also negatively reflects rail traffic. Why does Serbia lag behind in relation to the world? Because the world, until we almost did nothing, or we didn't invest anything in our railway infrastructure in the first place, so to speak, in our fleet, for 50-60 years invested heavily and tried to reduce that gap. Of course, we would not talk about this in this way today if the rail transport, or the railway sector had no potential, that is, if it did not continue to have certain comparative advantages, but they had to be done in order to materialise them, that is, to achieve their full effect. I would say that in the last few years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been working on it, working on making our railway infrastructure so competitive, it can draw back the traffic we lost. In the first place, I would point out the very significant credit that we have received from the Russian Federation which is also used to restore the rolling stock, but moreover, I would say, to improve our railway infrastructure across Serbia, but certainly also to the contract that we have with our partners from China and Hungary for the Belgrade-Budapest railway line which I believe will extend to the south, which will return Corridor 10 to the world's rail map, i.e. Europe's first place. So, thanks to one auction that was for us the happy environment that the Chinese did, when they bought Luke Piraeus, today we have the opportunity to significantly improve our rail traffic in the future and finally, as time expires, just to say that the SDS Group will support these three laws, but also the remaining laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35640	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. She's not present. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35641	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, Honored Minister Mihajlovic with his associates, I am pleased to see you most often in this high house, with this number of your associates. That speaks of your dedicated work and the work of your ministry. I'm going to say a few sentences about two laws, very briefly, which is the Law on Railways, which brings further opening and harmonisation of our market with a single European rail market, on the one hand, and more efficiency and better integration on the other hand, and not only that, but competitiveness in relation to other types of traffic. Dear People's MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the former regime's party did not take care of "The Railways of Serbia". They led her to total devastation and destruction. The chaos, corruption and crime of unprecedented proportions ruled during their government at the "Serb Railways". They deliberately didn't want to, either they didn't know, or they both did, go to the reconstruction of "The Railway of Serbia". This was done by the government of Aleksandar Vukic and the current government in which you are Minister Mihajlovic's minister. Instead of reconstructing "The Railway of Serbia", the former regime's party, as I said, carried out chaos, vengeance, corruption and crime of unprecedented proportions. Here, just a few of the many examples. The leadership of the former Serbian Railways regime spent 700,000 euros on fuel and maintenance of 103 cars in just a year. Dear citizens of Serbia, this is from your pockets. One former director, formerly the "Serb Railway" regime, spent ten million dinars in a restaurant for one year, the cost of a team for one year of the director of the "Serb Railway" of the former regime amounted to 106 million dinars plus 20 million in their own rooms, and when we add these previous 10 million, respected citizens, you see what your money went to. At fairs and other events in one year, they spent 26 million dinars. On presents, the party's leadership of the former Serbian Railways regime spent no less than 26 million dinars in one year. Respected Serbian citizens believe it or not, but the director of the former Serbian Railways Party spent one year on daily and official travels no less than 34m dinars. In 2012, the leadership of the "Train of Serbia" spent one year on the country's dinars 50m and 94,000 euros on foreign dinars. The president of the former Serbian Railway Party's union spent, in addition to pay, believe it or not, on 970,000 dinars and 20,000 euros for foreign diaries for one year. The squirrel Radeta throws her out of place. ) Please, Vice President, you're dying of these unarticulated throws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35642	All right, keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35643	(Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) Here, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have no chance of being distracted, theoretically they don't stand a chance. But it's practically going. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35644	I know. Keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35645	To honor you, it's a matter of your civilization. Here are the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, due to this chaos, due to this kind of publicity, crime and the robbery of the former regime party, did not implement the reconstruction of the company "The Railway of Serbia". It was good for them, they filled their pockets out of your pockets, respected citizens, and "Serb Railways" brought them to the lowest possible level and chaos from which we will come out for years, but we will get out. We will modernise "The Railways of Serbia", as does the current ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Let me say, however, although the honourable minister said, by 2015, the 120km of railway was reconstructed. This is to see that the government under the leadership of Mr. Alexander Vukic, while he was the President and Madam Minister who is now running this ministry, has done a lot. In 2016 122 km of railway was built, the railway was modernised from Resnik to Valjev 77 km. In the past four years, only Russian railways have reconstructed 200km of railways in Serbia. When it comes to road traffic, the government of Aleksandar Vukic has done a lot of work by Mrs. Mihajlovic's ministry. In just three years, there are 130 km of highways, 480 km of state roads, right, gentlemen of the former regime and gentlemen of the opposition? It's built 100 miles of local roads, right, gentlemen from opposition benches? Get up and kill this. 311 bridges were rehabilitated and built, two shares of 46 km of highways were opened in 2016 alone, etc. I don't want to keep counting. It was "Serb Railways" under your authority that gentlemen of the former regime were devastated and led to destruction. In the end, the representatives of the former regime's parties have been distracting us here for two days about how this government, or the former, has done nothing in this field. Let me say in the end, the party of the bankruptcy king Saša Radulovic, was never enough for them, party of Zoran Zivkovic, called farm in an attempt, party of Boris Tadic, called Lipicaner, party of Boška Obradovic, called Lupetiv, party of Cedomir Jovanovic, called calculator, party of Saša Javnković, called Sala praangi, the party, is now newly founded and Mr Gilas, known as the Djiki Mafia party, Dragan Sutanovac, a party called the grabinovac party, Nenada Canka, called gicoje, has done nothing in the past four years when it comes to residential security forces. It's good, Madam Minister, that this law goes. He is in favour of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which our government advocates both the President of the Republic of Serbia and in a shorter number of years, we will indeed modernise the Republic of Serbia. We support all the laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35646	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35647	Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, you should take a little more care to keep up with article 27. I really had no intention of defocusing my colleague Atlagic earlier, I just thought it was impossible for a university professor to deconcentrate as he spoke, but here, it happens, what to do. You had to warn him that the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia could not say "euro", but "euro". We need some basics to learn. Why did I even react? Somehow I panicked, said' - this man attacked Vukic, attacked Dacic, attacked the former regime, the Wolf regime, in front of the former regime, Dacic's regime, talking about some heavy spending in Železnica, I said, "Yu, just forgot Sima, the former director, when he remembered Sima's truffles and some dinner of a million dinars, etc. That's why I acted, I wanted to help him not stray far away, but here, I won't anymore, let him keep it that way and, of course, I hope now that he's recording, he's going to replicate or learn in a hurry. Don't just forget that famous exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35648	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Professor Atlagic, you have no right to a replica. (Marco Atlagic: Ajudgment of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35649	Members 103 and 107, Your Honor. I think you broke this Rules of Procedure, because you should have warned the People's Parliament in the first place, because it keeps throwing away. She is otherwise known in her parliamentary group for curses that Serbian citizens know very well, and that cost her a percentage. Just keep going, he won't get 0.5% in the next election. Thank you very much. Let this go to her personal culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35650	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Milorad Mircic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35651	I'm advocating a violation of article 107, chairman. You must make sure that the MPs are facing each other...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35652	Article 107 is already mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35653	Article 27(2)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35654	That's the point. Thank you. You can't bid with members, please. We don't want to make a circus. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35655	Serious subjects, a demagogue story, that would be an assessment of the work of this session so far. There's been a lot of talk and there's still talk about security apartments, and it's certainly acceptable, and any normal person would support it. It is acceptable just as much as those 380-euro apartments for young couples, and even those who have raised their price to 500 euros per square square, and that was acceptable, but since these apartments will be nothing, the fate of respected citizens and this law, that is, now the proposal and soon the law. If we have 30,000 unsettled members of the security force, if 18,905 of these people have declared that they want to solve the housing issue this way, if the state is going to build 1,578 of these apartments in two years, then for 22 years, everyone who wants to solve the housing issue should, provided no one new is hired. The question is, in so many years, which of those who have accepted this, who will welcome the living anyway? Of course, all this when you listen to what the representatives of the government, MPs, most of them, unfortunately, and I will say within the second law they don't even know what they're talking about. Representative Zorana Mihajlovic, of course, is trying to fascinate and tell stories with her own campmanship, and she doesn't say anything, it's common, but she would now have to answer a few questions. Yesterday, Zorana Mihajlovic said there was a bank, that this would be done with some bank, and we would like to know, we actually need to know, which bank, who chose that bank, why this bank. He says it'll be loans with lower interest rates. What are those interest rates? Could they have found lower interest rates? He says the subsidized state will be part of the construction of these apartments. When was that decided? How will it be subsidized? With how much concrete percent, money, etc.? So these are all just colorful lies and of course, who can trust Zorani Mihajlovic. Her colleagues in the government don't trust her, and every day we're witnesses to it. Because Zorana Mihajlovic does nothing, people do nothing, in the interest of this country and this people. She's doing, and it's a well-known thing, by order and in the interest of the American embassy, from Polt to Scott, is it so, Zoran, and all the bastards who come to order Serbia. Turn your head, that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35656	Please don't insult the minister. I'm really not gonna let that happen. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35657	How is the MP insulting, Mr. Vice President, if he thinks one minister is not doing his job well? If it were serious, this Zorana Mihajlovic could not have been a minister long ago. It's you, this Scott thing, here, I'm sorry personally. So, as far as this second law, which applies to the cadastre, everything we heard yesterday has nothing to do with the truth. First of all, we have the Prefer and Catastra Act, but we have a problem with Zorana Mihajlovic. Yesterday, said one MP, I was really shocked, thanking Zorani Mihajlovic for introducing second degree in the process in front of the cathedral. So is it possible to conduct some administrative procedure without second degree? Is it possible that someone thinks there was no second degree in the decision-making process so far? There were gentlemen, the second degree was the government and the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic. And she complains yesterday that there were 40,000 cases per complaint and that only four or five thousand were solved. So who does she complain to, in her ministry, in her closets, in her drawers? What wasn't she doing? She complains that so many cases haven't been solved. Very interesting. What you're trying to represent as good at this law is actually very bad. What do you mean, it was also part of Anna Brnabić's exposé, digitization, etc., we have nothing against it, but how do you think you're just using an e-salter in this business? Do you know what Serbia looks like? Do you know where there is no electricity in Serbia? Do you know where there are no fixed phones in Serbia? Do you know where there are no cell phones, where they haven't even heard of the Internet? Do you even know where you live? This is Serbia, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. You've leveled your public records in this law with the courts. That's absolutely inadmissible. Absolutely, what you bring to you is a public notebook, without control, someone will type in the cadastre and there is still no possibility of taking part in this process further, he says – one error written in the cadastre remains permanent. It's just amazing. I know how to read and I know the catastra and I know the law much better than you. So, very bad bill proposals and this shouldn't be adopted, at least not this way. I don't know how much time I've spent since you've interrupted me, so I'd like to be told.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35658	Thank you. Keep going, you've got time. All right, I'll give you 30 seconds, that's no problem. How much time did I spend? You have 11 and a half minutes left. Would you like to continue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35659	When I press this button, I want to go on. So, what else is to be said here? It takes a lot, but it can't be everything. Mrs. Mihajlović, you were talking about increasing the speed on the highways, and that's kind of, I think, generally accepted and you were talking about better quality of the road. Where are your quality roads? We have a lot of photos with holes on the freeway, with cracks on the way to Preljina-Cacchak. It's just, I didn't mean to insult fellow MPs, like you did yesterday's associates to let them wave some pictures. So what you said isn't true either. I'd just like you to tell us if you have information that there's been another shooting at Corridor 10 and that there's been a breach there, as it's already been called, and it's already happened once. One more question, Mrs. Mihajlovic, for you. You said the other day when you came to a construction site that workers were throwing shovels and running away from you. That's what I believe. The children no longer speak. You will be carried away by Baba Rog, but you will take away your aunt Zoran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35660	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35661	Eh, what would you do without me, who would piss you off in the government if I wasn't around, right? How about you? It wouldn't be interesting enough. What was it, 2.4% in Belgrade, 19 times less than SNS? That's what the citizens of Belgrade think, let's start with that. Let's go back to a few important things, since you said these apartments had nothing to do with it, time would show. In August of the month, construction begins. You're wrong about one finding you've given, which is that the government will make 1,500 apartments in two years, and it takes us 20 years to move on because the locations will later open new ones and we'll end up 5,200 apartments in two, two and a half years, and that's only 80%, as you know and what it says, there must be domestic materials and domestic products. When you asked about credit participation, state subsidies, 5% of credit users' participation, so the state subsidy is also 5% and there's still credit capacity, or credit to the bank. The state is an investor. This law does not deal with these conditions which you have now talked about, but first we are taking the first step, which is that we are hopefully adopting a law on special conditions and criteria for building these apartments, and then making further decisions by the state as investors of the government's conclusion in that financial part, the declaration of general interest, etc. I wouldn't be talking about all these details right now. As for those roads you're talking about, yes, I'm not ashamed to repeat what it looks like this time, how we built this highway. Not only am I not ashamed, I'm proud of it. This is the Beška Bridge, this is the Dobanovci loop, this is the loop also of the Dobanovci. Why can't you see it? These are the results of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia since Vukic came to its head even today as Serbia's president. Yes, it was built and released close to 200 km of highways, so about 160 km only last year's rehabilitated railroad, this year 226 km of railways will be rehabilitated, high-speed railways are being built. Whatever this Zorana is, here she is, sitting in the government and I am so happy to be part of a government that has such results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35662	The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35663	It doesn't piss me off Zorana Mihajlović, nor any of the radicals, but I hear how annoying those in the vault were when they found out she spent 1.515,451 dinars from the state card, so they forced her to return, so she returned some of it, for the underwear she spent somewhere around 895,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35664	What is this now? What kind of debate is this? No personal insults, please. Your wife tried to answer all your questions. Do you think you're crazy? Yes, yes, I'm very normal. You have no right to speak like that in parliament, it really doesn't make sense. Let's have at least a minimum of dignity in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35665	This is just as amazing as you, Vice President, I got your attention up there yesterday, you're protecting Zorana Mihajlović, of course, it's generally known why you're doing it, you're the same lobby, we know that, but let us say it. So, as for what she was saying about the bill's proposals, Zorana Mihajlovic did not answer the question why the wall on Corridor 10 fell again and why a huge crack appeared on the supporting wall. She didn't answer a question about the gravel, about that illegal exploitation. For six years, Zorana Mihajlovic has been in power in the Brnabic regimes, Vukic, Dacic, before that she was in the Zivkovic regimes, Labus, since she was carrying the Labus bag here. Why is she talking about these problems now, like they're trying to solve them? Mrs. Mihajlovic, who will pay for all the lawsuits, and only the lawsuits followed by the citizens of Batocina, Katrava, Obrva, where about two billion euros in this exploitation destroyed the land of people in these catastrian municipalities? Who will pay, Mrs. Mihajlovic? If you'll excuse me, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, just to ask Zorana Mihajlovic does she know when she was last at the Aviatar cafe at the Kalenic market where construction permits are being held? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35666	Thank you. As for society, I am proud of you for putting me in the same company with Zorana Mihajlovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35667	To come from these personal insults to my account or to my findings, it doesn't matter. I don't even know the name of the bar, I don't even know where it is, I've never been there in my life. But I believe you are, because maybe you're cooking something, but I admit I don't cook anything like this or anything that might not be nice, but what do I do? I don't have time to cook, I do. I didn't answer another thing you said before, and it was a disaster. By 2014, the second degree was transferred to the Republic Geodetic Institute, before which the minister was Mr. Ilic, and after that, since it was the responsibility of the catastra, he was transferred to the Republic Geodetic Institute, he was under direct jurisdiction, among other things, the Prime Minister, and not the Ministry of Construction and then, with the help of the World Bank, went to a faster realization, i.e. resolving these issues, i.e. a large number, then there were 30,000 unsolved cases in the second degree. Furthermore, as far as gravel is concerned, let me tell you, these are things that existed 10, 20 years ago and over. I'd say that even those illegal stories about gravel, oil spills, oil derivatives and all that, for God's sakes, are being recorded from some time of yours. We haven't been able to solve it in the past six years. There was a lot of crime, there was a lot of blackmail. By working together with other ministries, we have only now managed to write them down. Some sources why some things have occurred have the least to do with both this and the previous few governments, rather than the gods with the period of some of your so-called. The government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35668	Thank you. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35669	You, Mr. Marinkovic, have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. I am reporting by article 107 and article 27 because you have tried in the most harsh way possible, as vice-president of the National Assembly and the People's MP, to influence the media. You know that's not allowed under the Constitution of our country and that you can't tell the media what they're going to do and what they're going to write about. All these people have a name and a last name in the daily newspaper "Alo" and in other daily magazines, under a full name and last name journalists wrote about what Vice President Radeta said, that Zorana Mihajlovic spent state money on underwear and perfumes, so that you were obliged to react at this time when they told you first of all the ruling coalition what you should do. I warned you that you should have your dignity, you must be an intellectual and representative of another political party, which is in the coalition with the SNS, and I guess you don't need anyone to subfling how you're going to run the sessions. On the other hand, you are obliged to warn Zorana Mihajlovic that she is a guest here, as a member of the government, vice-president of the government, I do not believe for long, because I hope that Aleksandar Vukic and Ana Brnabic will also listen to what we have been saying for months, that she is working primarily for the interest of the West and America and that she is being replaced from the post of minister. As far as the election results go, she should at least bid as much as she has. She has zero votes because no one can stand her at SNS. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35670	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, do you want the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35671	Of course I do. Mr. Marinkovic, you took 30 seconds from me. Just to tell you that no one here in the O.R. or from their co-workers, and I don't believe a member, said to the stronger sex, expects Zorana Mihajlovic to be able to make a Slavic cake or a lollipop.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35672	Okay, real highways, that's similar. Thank you, Ms. Radeta, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35673	Article 27. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35674	I'm sorry, Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35675	Mr. Marinkovic, a member of 27 has been injured. Most kindly, I ask you on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, we have come here to do a serious job and to discuss important bill proposals, not to listen to the persuasion of the yellow press as to what cooks, who was in which cafe, who buys underwear, etc. It's below every civilization level. Please stop this kind of debate and stop whenever it comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Zorana Mihajlović verbally and mentally speaking to Mrs Mihajlovic and all of us SRS MPs from one or two of the SRS MPs whose discussion is indeed at the level of, as I say, some suburban pubs where people sit in the valleys who don't know what they're going to do and then convince the charm stories and gossip they heard a day or two ago. So this is the National Assembly. What does this look like? Zorana Mihajlovic was in the cafe, Zorana Mihajlovic bought underwear, Zorana Mihajlovic this, Zorana Mihajlovic that. Zorana Mihajlovic makes highways, real bridges, rebuilds railway infrastructure, the woman deals with it. What is needed now means whenever Zorana Mihajlovic comes to the National Assembly that we all hide in mouse holes and watch as several domonian people who don't know what they're going to do better in life, chuckles in a way that is truly unworthy of the National Assembly. I've been silent so far, I thought you guys were gonna react, I kept quiet yesterday, I kept quiet today, but please don't let this happen anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35676	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the powers laid down in Article 27, we shall continue. Daniela Stojadinović, have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35677	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, your honors to the ministry, I'm going to talk to you today about the railways. These three draft laws have the importance and justification of adoption, given that railways are a vital part of the transport sector, Member States, should certainly improve to make them more efficient and more competitive than other types of traffic. I would like to remind that Serbia has an extremely important position when it comes to traffic, that it is a rail traffic hub, that it connects the east and west, and that this share should be used for the total length of Serbia's 3,808km rail network. Let's remind ourselves that in the meantime, the electrification was done at 1,166 kilometers by 2017. The way in which the future functioning of the railway sector in our country is envisioned will fit into the effective application of the EU rail package. The draft law on railways aims to comply with the proposal for a railway safety and interoperability law or to translate it into mutual action. The aim of this law is also to modernise and specify the part of the law that regulates access and use of railway infrastructure, then use and regulate the market, solve the problem of railway carriers. In carrying out the work of transporting passengers, goods and at all problems of the national railway infrastructure manager. This law protects the interests of all participants in rail traffic, infrastructure managers of railway undertakings, or network users from local via regional to bus. Therefore, harmonising Serbia's rail services with the European market, strengthening the role of directorship, integration into the transport services market and improving the efficiency of the railway system and its competitiveness to other types of traffic. The Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways is adopted by a newspaper relating to the precise definition of operations and responsibilities of the Railways Directorate, which would also lead to the development of strengthening the Railway Directorate as a national body for safety, including common security methods, defines the conditions for centres for professional training of railway workers. These three laws, the bill of law not only agree with each other and form an inseparable continent, which is why they are also considered together and will define, will regulate rail traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All together if you would define it with three words, I would say that if these three laws were to achieve, Madam Minister of Modernization, Efficiency and Competitiveness. When I say modernization, it's my first thought on Corridor 10. So I agree to Corridor 10, priority of all priorities, but I suggest that we work parallelly with Corridor 10 on the Railway Corridor and set high standards at the beginning. So fast tracks and speed 200 kilometers per hour. Yesterday you mentioned a four-billion-euro figure that will be invested in the railways, and I think this is the right opportunity to solve other problems in this way, i.e. connected railways. Madam Minister, for example, a bridge on the Great Morava that connects the Svilajnac municipality with the highway, is a form created after World War II, created by a donation from Germany. The last reconstruction of this bridge was in 1988, so for 40 years, exactly what you were talking about yesterday. I think it's the last bridge in Serbia that has a connected road network and rail traffic. So the tracks and the cars are on the same bridge. I know you've been in Svilinco, and you may have been lucky enough not to have the ramp down on the one side and on the other, but it's really making traffic difficult. The municipality of Svilajnac, meanwhile, managed to get out of the order of undeveloped municipalities after so many years. We have foreign investors, Panasonic is one of the largest foreign investors, and it brings subsidies to the entire Pomorava County, and it would be really good to resolve this issue, so before the Svilajnac municipality even did the planning and project documentation that stands. Of course, we expect it to help us here, this very opportunity where it is now being invested and where this problem could be solved. First of all, we all need people to stay in their places, to develop infrastructure, because it is the first and most responsible for any investor and to continue to create jobs. This is not only important for the municipality of Svilajnac but also for all other municipalities, the municipality of Despotovac, Petrovac on Mlava and the municipality of Žabara, which in the meantime also became tourist municipalities. I thank you for your attention, and I would like you to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35678	Thank you. The word is Natasa Vučković. She's not present. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35679	I thank the chairman. The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with his associates, is pleased today and yesterday to be in the Serbian Parliament, because it is proof that Serbia is changing, that in the past four or five years, much has been done to create conditions that we have laws that we want to modernise Serbia and that all those steps we have taken just now really need to give their full result. That's why we have laws from all areas today, but when we talk about traffic, it means all kinds of traffic, but also those related to construction and I today so I don't take up much of my colleagues' time, I'm going to talk about this Lex speciality law that applies to apartment building, because I want to remind you both of you and Serbian citizens of what it used to be like in 2010, because many political parties of the government promised to build cheap apartments. So in 2010, if you remember a minister who said that Serbia needed 50,000 apartments, but that it couldn't cost the apartment 500 euros per square, but now we see that it can. Then there was the construction of 5,000 apartments in the former barracks “4. July" where the price of the apartment was 1,290 euros per square, plus VAT. So there were 1550 euros, through credit banks like one Hipo Alpe Adria bank that went into bankruptcy, which, of course, is now bought by someone else. This is what it says about political inconsistencies, especially when you want to show that you are willing to do something, and for that you have no strength, no political power, because many challenges that show that the investment of the state in infrastructure, and especially for the members of the security institutions in our country could not be in a position at all to buy such apartments. Why is he talking and I want to compare to this law and proposal today? Because then the state invested out of the budget two billion dinars, and when it built 500 thousand squares, it earned 645m euros. So, in Serbia's budget, plus a tax of about 200m euros. So, the big question is -- what did the citizens of Serbia actually live on all that time? So, on the concept of certain failed projects that were exclusively for the petty own interests of the then government by 2012. The current law and financial aspect of this law, when it comes to building apartments, is taking place in several stages and that is what needs to be said. The first phase speaks of 1,578 apartments in six cities and says that only in this year is foreseen by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind our colleagues when we voted here in December, that one million and 95 000 euros were allocated for the production of technical documentation, i.e. an idea solution, and that it is very important that all other investments, in fact, will be paid in this year for the cost of parcel and participation of one million and 519m euros, and that in the following year, the largest part of these investments will be 49 million 745 thousand, in order to complete that external part, i.e. the infrastructure of the facilities that will amount to 11 million 995 thousand euros. In fact, the total investment is 64m euros. What exactly do those who will be able to raise credit on the basis of all these documents, conditions, regulations that they will meet? It will receive housing units worth 500 euros per square, without VAT. If this number of apartments were shared with this investment, they would be given an average price that each apartment would be worth 40,000 euros. But where today on the real estate market do you have a 500-euro square of finished living space? What will certainly be the users of this loan, or our members of the security service, will receive in fact capital that will certainly double in that financial sense because the very locations where these apartments will be built essentially cost a lot more, even three times as much as 500 euros per square. Thus, the essential state in some way owes these people who are doing the most responsible security jobs and who are really solving their life issue. I think this law actually shows how much the state really went into modernising Serbia, how many laws have become simply a daily part of each of us's lives, which show that they don't divide people into members of certain political parties, that simply the law applies to everything equally. These 30,000 people who have unresolved housing issues will surely support such a law because they simply created trust in both the Serbian government and the Ministry and this congregation majority, that we are essentially dealing with real state issues, but also issues of everyday life for people who are simply doing the most responsible jobs in the state of Serbia. Thank you for having the opportunity today to defend modern Serbia's policy, SNS, which has shown that those who do not have a plan and programme, who are dealing with certain completely inappropriate issues in parliament, Serbia will remain alone on the political scene, because their political concepts simply will have no one left to support at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35680	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35681	Thank you. At first, I would refer to today's statement by Minister Mihajlovic that she does not have time to cook because she works and I suppose she did not intend to send a special message in this way that those who cook are in the vast majority of women who do it for their children, do not work or do not work enough. Such a statement fits the matrix of the state's top officials saying they don't have time to sleep, or to eat because of the amount of work they have, but the results are much more important than the work itself, and these results are best spoken of, say, the speed of EU accession, and membership has been declared as the strategic priority of this government or the number of Serbian citizens leaving this country and precisely because of the improvement that this government has brought over the past six years. Now I'm going to look back on these laws. During yesterday's debate, the most controversy sparked the Law on building apartments for security forces. What is undeniable is that every serious state because of the nature of their work, takes particular care of the members of these structures, and gives them certain privileges. However, the main question raised is whether the proposed way to solve the housing problems of this part of the state structure members is appropriate? I would agree here with what most opposition MPs have so far pointed out, which is that there are no clearly defined criteria and procedures for the purchase of these apartments, as if a much better stimulant would be an increase in wages, with credit subsidisation, so that members of the security structures can decide for themselves where and what apartments they want to buy. Today, however, first of all, I would like to say more about the Road Bill. Generally speaking, this proposal is much better than the applicable laws. What's good is that the types of maintenance and road intervention have been defined, since so far there have been a lot of abuses in this particular area. It is also positive that the types of roads are defined, i.e. the categorisation of public roads is arranged, but the problem is that the correct criteria are determined by a sublegal act. Even today, it is not clear exactly how many national roads Serbia has in kilometers. The number varies from 14,400 to 19600, depending on whether Kosovo and some local roads count. What is necessary is that "Serbian Roads" must know which network is in their jurisdiction, and until kilometre is known, it is practically impossible. It is even more important and clear to legally determine who and what can be maintained and arranged, because on the basis of the current statutes "The Way of Serbia", they deal only with state roads. However, regardless of "Serbian Roads" recently held Belgrade elections in the capital, they made at least 150km of roads. In addition, the list of wishes and demands is growing because local self-governments do not have the capacity and therefore transfer responsibility to "Serbian Roads", which is practically illegal. We therefore believe that the regionalization of maintenance should be envisaged or the "Serbian Roads" should be expanded and the sector which would deal with it in a transparent manner should help local self-government maintain their network. What we also see as a lack of this legislative proposal is that very little mention is the resilience of travel infrastructure to climate change and response when disaster occurs. For example, when floods occurred four years ago, in approximately used cases, expropriations were to be carried out to clear the roads, or at least to enter someone's property temporarily. Under the applicable law, the process of expropriation can take months. Of course, during the flood a state of emergency was introduced, and these provisions of the law were suspended. However, if there are significant local disasters in the future, which would not require the introduction of a state of emergency, what was previously carried out during the flood will be difficult to repeat. In addition, the regular maintenance and rehabilitation plan should include skating recoverys, as well as other strengthenings of resilience, as instability is currently being observed and when it is estimated to be going down, reacts through special tasks. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the bill on roads is much better than the one in force, because, first of all, it limits "Serbia's Roads" to be able to mislead everything, i.e. what is not clearly seen in the books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35682	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35683	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with his associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the SNS list. I will today, as I have so far, bring out a set of things that are very important to me as a man who lives in Srlig. I'm the son of a police officer, a man who retired, a man who went to war for this country of Serbia and a man who had problems, but we'll talk about it tomorrow at a meeting. Otherwise, great support from me as a man for this law that we want to help our people who work in security forces, people who don't have their own apartment, get an apartment at a better price. In this way, it will be a great thanks to them, because they will get rid of their life existence, and it is an apartment. I think it's really an extremely good law, a good price, and I hope that there will be opportunities for all of our members of the security force to ensure that everyone who doesn't have a place to live, to provide them with an apartment, because this is really the best thing. Now I'm going to say more about the Law of Railway Traffic. Since I'm from Svrljig, which is where the railway line from Nis goes through Svrljig, via Književec, Zaječar, Negotina, Prahova, and the Law on Railway Traffic gives certain benefits for the work and construction of the highway track, but I'll look more at these members, Article 9, 10, 11, because that part of it is just touching where the great privilege is the freeway, where really big investments are, and I think it's really good, because we want to have good rail traffic, both freight and passenger, so that we can be competitive and at any moment to ensure better functioning for our country Serbia and all citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35684	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35685	I'm very interested here, since back a few, last year we had the opportunity and the railroad that goes from Nis to Prahov is not included in the investment. I'd like to know if that railroad is going to be built, if it's going to be working. It would not be good to put the railway out of force, because it is very important for the southeast of Serbia, for the east of Serbia, because an increase in freight traffic of 600,000 tonnes per million and 600,000 tonnes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35686	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35687	I call on you, and I would like to ensure that this railroad survives, lives, works, works, because it is a vessel of housewives for all who live in eastern Serbia. Once again, I'm going to vote for all the bill proposals, because I think they're good, by noting that we put this on so that it can work and not close that track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35688	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35689	Milia, thank you for supporting the bill. In particular, regarding this railway, I believe it will not close, but we will sit down and mediate together with the Serbian Railways and local self-governments, with everyone in the district, and exactly in accordance with the member you mentioned and then we will discuss and see how we will solve this problem. I totally understand, you're right, especially when we talk about that part of Serbia, we'll do our best to make it work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35690	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is not here. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35691	Thank you. Honored Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliaments, whenever they are before the People's MPs a bill that has been resolutely competent by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, I must point out the good co-operation of this ministry with local self-government. It is the city of Nis, which through this ministry received subsidies from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and thus a chance to complete some of the projects that it has started and that some of the programmes it has started to implement to the end. I'd like to remind and highlight the program of building so-called. Social housing. The city of Nis was part of this programme along with some other cities in our country, which are Panchevo, Kraljevo, Čačak, Stara Paz and Kikind. In line with the construction programme's provisions, the city of Nis has provided financial resources, infrastructure-equipped land, parthetic planning, professional supervision, project management and other accompanying costs, but on the other hand, without the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and without the help of this Ministry, the city of Nis could not even go into the realization of such a programme. The ministry invested 46 million dinars, and the city of Nis invested more than 145 million dinars. In the street of Majakovski, new housing units are thus built, i.e. two residential buildings covering 70 apartments that occupy more than 4,000 square meters. What is very important at this point is for which purposes built apartments are used – 18 apartments to provide housing support through a non-profit lease. The price of a non-profit lease is now 1.2 euros per metre square, which means that an apartment of about 46 square meters can be rented for only 55 euros. I have to say that 30% of these apartments are occupied by a single parent category. As one of the government's incentives to promote population policy, the government of the Republic of Serbia shows its willingness to help all citizens, especially citizens who represent the endangered category of our population. Fourteen apartments are provided for the care of families whose houses have been torn down by a slide on the Marble Hill. These apartments are financed by the city with about 60 million dinars without VAT. Finally, 38 apartments are intended for housing support from non-profit purchases, which is financed by the Niš city, the city's housing agency's financing of 165m dinars without VAT. The sale is now being made at a price of 634 euros per metre square, with no VAT in dinar equivalent. In the competition, interest was very high. These apartments received their new tenants and precisely Mrs. Mihajlovic and Mayor Nisa Darko Bulatovic handed the keys to the new tenants in December 2017. In that sense, I'd like to invite you to continue with these programs. These programmes are very necessary for the city of Nis, and just when the analysis of all the applicants reported for these apartments has been established and the need for the city of Nis for such programmes has been established. Here, it is now expected in Nis to build new apartments, and that is 188 apartments for members of the security forces at the "Stevan Sijedic" barracks. The location is located two to three kilometers from the city centre and will be built in apartments. Of course, by adopting this proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, we will make a lot of contribution to the construction of these apartments in Nis as soon as possible. All of this clearly shows the government's efforts in the previous period, but a new major step towards a permanent solution to housing problems and the housing needs of security forces is seen. In that sense, I, along with my colleagues from the SNS, will support this ministry's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35692	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35693	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has programmeically defined years ago as trying to develop domestic economy at all costs. What is a priority when it comes to the development of domestic economy, it is in any case raising the building operation. It just sounds funny when some here who are members of the government respect the SRS that she didn't do it at the time when it comes to solving the interior ministry's housing problems, the military and the BIA, that she didn't get enough votes because she wasn't popular enough among the citizens. The paradox of all this is that it's said by personalities who have not come out with their name and last name in any election. An even bigger paradox of all is that it has been said by personalities who have directly or indirectly influenced or participated in the destruction of the interior ministry, the Serbian Army and the BIA since 2000. We are witnesses that they are now advocating you to raise apartments and solve the housing problems of members of the military, the M.O.P. and the B.I.A. A simple man can't believe it. But given that everything is changing, and especially when it comes to man and his character, we understand it all. The bottom line is that, in any case, it is necessary to continue with residential construction, with the launch of a construction operation, and in doing so, gentlemen, that all investors must be equal or approximately equal. You here have an investor that appears in the form of a state, in the form of companies that are under the authority of a state or some other forms of institutions that are in any case state institutions. On the other hand, you have investors who are on the free market. The price of a square meter is very important when it comes to living space, very important because it has to be proportionate to the level of purchasing power of the population. And here you are showing this bill that you can achieve that price. But it can be achieved by giving local self-government wages, giving land, which will free future contractors from doing a lot of these separations and making benefits and affecting the price of a square meter. Now, whoever is following the construction operation knows that construction works are being carried out until the stage, which would be said to be the key in hand, not more than 400 to 450 euros, in the current conditions, when it comes to the free market. Everything else, the price upgrades make up the cost of land, infrastructure, municipal contributions still everything that is known. So this is one of the moves that should clearly indicate that the Serbian Radical Party is right when she said it in her program, and I will show it to you, gentlemen, he's printed in a large circulation, unlike those programs we haven't seen before today. Whether citizens voted for the SRS or not, it is quite clear, the results speak. But the citizens voted in these elections that you mentioned as a minister, voted for Alexander Vukic, neither did the parties show up, neither did you as individuals, because if you showed up, who knew in Serbia which more foreigners you were in? You sleep with one and you get up with another leader, it's perfectly normal for you, from Labus to here, so, look how the citizens can track your development path. You can't get caught. And you find the right to honor yourself as much as anyone has won the election. In addition, what is very important and significant is that the SRS programme has already advocated the rise of Serbia's railways. We felt, we were still convinced, that the loans obtained from European banks, from the World Bank, are not favourable, especially from those from the Russian Federation and, lately, we are witnesses, and from the Chinese state. And we thought that the package, the credit line we can secure in the Russian Federation, was tied to the South Stream. We were deeply convinced that these were two investments that should not be separated, not only because of investors, but because of the logic of things, which operationally carried out works was in any case qualified by the Russian Federation, and by means of a labour force that is from Serbia. And what are we witnessing? We're witnessing there's nothing from the South Stream. Not because it still does not need Serbia, but because it was then the resolute minister who was the person who insinuated the Russian investment in Serbia. She was recognizable by that. Now, under pressure from new ideas, which have been extorted because of the lack of entry into the EU, Russian investors are slowly entering the door and entering Chinese capital, and we are sitting here watching bill proposals which, in its arguments, implies due to EU entry and European standards. Ludi, have you separated from Alexander Vukic politically? You're not partying, because you could use what you've got in those functions, thanks to his popularity. He announced the other day that there is definitely nothing from Europe, because the last obstacle that needs to be removed is KIM. He is a soundly minded mindless man to hand over KIM, and you are pushing Serbia into Europe. Are you indirectly showing that you're for Europe, so it doesn't matter what the cost of giving up Kim is? Secondly, what is very interesting, which is that of the 40,000km of highways in Serbia, five thousand kilometers is in the so-called. First category. It's about 11,000 kilometers in the second category. The bill now provides for the second category to be taken into account in the territory of the AP Vojvodina government, i.e. the competent secretariat, i.e. Public enterprise for the maintenance of other category roads in Vojvodina. It's just that a man can't get the impression that when the person in question was given to the Ministry of Energy, then many of them said, you gave the wolf to guard the sheep, and now, in a portable sense, it gives the goat to guard the cabbage, you give the District Government to take care of the pathways of the second category. All Serbia already knows by heart, sparrows already know in Serbia how to steal and how much to steal, when it comes to pave the way. You're giving someone who's proven, a confirmed thief, a criminal to maintain roads, to steal on the thickness of the asphalt layer, and you're in that category yourself. Have you criticized Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic for not doing anything before? Have you been making accusations that literally he and Velja Ilic are people who have hitchhiked the development of highways? What have we experienced here? You, as minister, as a resolute ministry, promised to build 100km of rail, hundreds and hundreds of kilometers of highways. You haven't finished Corridor 10 yet. When are you going? You don't know when he'll be like Jackna. For God's sake, and with your work and procedures, you belong to this category that is very popular, humorous shows called Gekna – when, you don't know, will. If you were on TV, you'd be there. What we are discussing today, we are deeply convinced that there is an emergency debate. Before the very reconstruction of the Serbian government, we are discussing laws represented by Zorana Mihajlovic. Is it not a little like that for you? We shall call upon it, and it shall remain in the government out of spite.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35694	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35695	Thank you for your discussion. I don't want to compare anyone with animals out of respect for animals, but it turns out I'm so strong, I stopped the South Stream. Let's deal with some facts. When you talk about the railway first, you should know about the terms of the loan if you are already so well informed, then you should know that right now "the railways of Serbia", at the moment I became the minister of traffic, therefore in charge of the area of rail transport, then the Russian loan that was completely stopped and no one was effectively used, so 5% of that loan was used. Now this loan has been fully used, contracts have been fully set up with Russian railways, which is otherwise one of the world's really best companies in this area and we continue with them from the dispatch centre, which among other things does not belong to this so-called. Russian loan. It's this Zoran who usually works for those Americans terrible, but here's the thing that makes a little Russian loan happen. Secondly, the terms of the loan, among other things that were signed in time before Vucic entered the government in general, are somewhere around 3.5% of the interest on the case of the Russian loan. The interest rate in Chinese loans ranges from 2% to 2.5%. Belgrade-Budapest is 2% for the fast track. That's how we're in charge of 2%. The interest of the European Investment Bank, for example for Nis – Dimitrovgrad, this is a large project of 260m euros that we have concluded, of which is about 100m euros, 60m from the budget, and 70m is a grant, so the EU. The European Investment Bank's loan is 2%. So, the Russian Federation 3.5%, Chinese 2% to 2.5%, European Investment Bank 2%. Just for the record, that's the data this year. Not to mention some previous governments from a decade ago, who took loans that were even higher. What is the policy of the Serbian government is to try to get the best possible conditions for our infrastructure projects. We're also working with the Chinese Exe Bank. We are working now and negotiating with the Turkish Exi Bank, working with Russian companies, therefore, with the Russian state. We also work with international financial institutions. You're right here, from the World Bank to the IBRD. So these are the terms of the loans. Also, when you were talking about the law itself, I'm glad, regardless of all the surrounding forests and comments, but the essential objections to the proposal for a special law on criteria for building apartments for members of security forces are gone. I'm glad we agree on that. It's great that you have it in your program, only you didn't realize it, we did. We're not ours, and when I say we, SNS, so we didn't print our program, we didn't have the money for it, I'm glad you printed it in a huge number of copies, that's fantastic. But I don't know what the problem is that I said that you made 2.44% in the election when it's a fact. I didn't lie about anything here, I just said it the way it is, but I'm glad you support this law, because this is good. This is not a matter of political parties at all, this is important for all those who are employed in the institutions of our country's security forces. Will anyone recognize me, speaking of that personal, somewhere in Serbia, whether I'm a member of one party or another, as you say, is less important, but I'm in Serbia and Serbia every day. There's no town I haven't been to, it's much more important and there's no road I don't know about or railroads I don't work on. That's the most important thing, and what anyone will think of me and what you're going to say is really less important than what I'm going to deliver as a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35696	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35697	Well, when you're already discussing it, the benefits of individual loans, then you have to be honest to the end. The date and time when the Russian loan was taken is long before the credit was taken for the bypass, when it comes to Nis. At that time, 3% interest was far the most favourable interest when taking Russian credit. Now these interest rates are not thanks to your wise policy, but to the situation at all when it comes to interest, much more favourable and you can't compare it. Why didn't there be a realisation of the Russian loan or a realisation, at least you personally have the credit, because then the government in which you directly or indirectly participated, one part of that loan that was worth $800,000, used for the debt reprogramme after the Russian approval, and then the Russian Federation waited for the completion of the projects, on the basis of these projects, could have realised that investment. You and how you resented your colleague Milutin Mrkonjic, whom you claim to have said he did nothing or almost did nothing until you showed up, nothing was done. You know, I appreciate it when someone's modest, but when they're too modest like you, they should be worried. You cover a wide range of diapazones when it comes to the ministries. As far as the parties are concerned, all the parties are with you. When the party membership cards turn out, many in Serbia think they're the Olympic Games. All the membership cards that exist, when it comes to parties, you own, and when it comes to knowledge, only Joseph Broz covered more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35698	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35699	Just a few things for the truth. First, it's true, so-called. Russian credit is a credit for which neither Alexander Vucic nor the Government since 2012. It's simply a loan that was inherited, as well as many loans that the government inherited. Unfortunately, many who have been taken into a period before, ten years and from other international financial institutions that have not been realised. So, the Russian loan has been launched and implemented primarily thanks to the Government since 2013, 2014, modestly or not, but these are the results of the government of Aleksandr Vukic, and certainly part of the ministry that I run. When you talk about terms, you're right about loans from the European Investment Bank, the World Bank and some others, but you're not, for a Russian loan right, because we're still talking at the dispatch centre about the new loan and the conditions we're offered are the same conditions that were laid down years ago, when that Russian loan was taken, so on. Russian credit, and that was 3%. Just for the sake of truth, that's all. You also said that some here never went to the elections under the name, in 2014, I was the bearer of the SNS list for the city of Belgrade under the full name and last name. Therefore, my name was first in addition to the list of SNS and Alexander Vukic. You're also absolutely right, that here where I sit, I sit thanks to his popularity, and I have no problem saying it, on the contrary, I'm proud. All these governments and the results of the economics that we've achieved, that's something you can only be proud of and I don't have any problem with that, as many times as you want me to say it. Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35700	You have no right to the replica of my colleague Mircic. Milorad Mircic: Let me explain. It's not the right information. In the next address, you know that you have to have a basis. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35701	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, honourable MPs, I will talk about the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. For the first time, it is systematically approaching the resolution of the housing issue of members of the security system, with the largest number of those who have failed to resolve the housing issue permanently for decades. Given the importance and responsibility of the work carried out by security forces and their importance for the security of the entire state, one authority finally decided to address the issue of permanent resolution of the security forces through a harmonised programme of measures and activities. No previous government was interested, and I can say freely, it was neither able to deal with this problem systemically. The project of building apartments for security forces includes a harmonised programme of measures and activities aimed at systematic housing of members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the police, the BIA and the Administration of Criminal Sanctions, as well as persons, formerly members of the Security Forces, who have acquired the right to retire in one of these state bodies that I have listed. Realising this project, only in the first phase, would resolve the housing issue for 1,578 families, members of security forces, but would have a positive impact on GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth. So far, all the furniture of the Dossov authorities has been completely ignored from 5 October 2000 until the last day of their reign, which has been a means of stopping the projects of building apartments for members of the Serbian Army and buildings in the advanced phase of construction. Let us remember, for example, the beginning and never completed settlements on the military estate in the King. So it was necessary for the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, to come to power, and that she and her coalition partners finally, seriously and systematically approach this problem of great importance for the state in national security. Just as Alexander Vukici had the strength to face the problem of the backlog of military pensioners, who created a touchage power in 2008, and enabled military pensioners to come to their pensions, and now, again, Alexander Vukic and SNS with their coalition partners set out to solve this burning problem system and finally provide a roof over their heads for several tens of thousands of family members of the security system. This law will address the largest number of outstanding housing needs of security employees, but also retired members of those services who have failed to resolve their housing issue for decades. The solution to this problem is the public interest of the Republic of Serbia. Since the possibility of housing security for members of the military and the Ministry of Defence on one hand has been regulated in a different way, compared to other members of the security forces and pensioners of those state authorities. The adoption of this law and the implementation of the project will unify the conditions and procedures for all of them. The purchase of an apartment under the conditions prescribed by this law will see a permanent resolution of the housing needs of security forces, and banning alienation of a purchased apartment and the obligation to remain in a working relationship over the next 10 years will prevent abuse. The bill regulates who has the right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions, but who has no right, i.e. who fulfils and does not meet the conditions. Following the determination of compliance with this law, it shall be determined whether the potential buyer of the apartment has the means to purchase the apartment, or its creditworthiness. There is now a need to adopt sublegal acts so that members of the security force can truly, under equal conditions, permanently resolve their own housing needs. I believe, Madam Prime Minister, that there is a serious need to consider the possibility and modality of housing among other specific groups of security forces, and I mean, above all, those members who had purchased apartments in the former republics or had apartments with acquired housing rights, but the orders of their superiors in 1991 and 1992 due to the war have been pre-located from the former SFRJ republics to the SRJ, now already in the Republic of Serbia. So because of the war, they left their dwellings and their dwellings, they came to these premises, and here they have lived for 26, 27 years as so-called. Military homeless in military barracks, other military facilities, military hotels, joint rooms, etc., and unfortunately some of them will not be able to apply for the purchase of an apartment under this law due to non-compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 5(1) and (2). difficult proof that they meet the conditions. I will discuss them in more detail when I explain my amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35702	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35703	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Mihajlovic, respected members of the cabinet of the Minister of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since I have a few minutes at my disposal and that my colleagues have already issued the position of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group on most of the laws we are discussing here today. I will refer to the proposal for a traffic safety law. The main preconditions to improve traffic safety and to reduce the numbers of black statistics on our roads are certainly good laws and their consistent application, but also good roads. We recently passed a set of traffic safety laws and in a very short time they give the first positive effects. Only since the introduction of a mid-speed measurement on the highway has the number of traffic accidents in Serbia decreased by 25%. Since the entry into force of the new law, the death toll has been reduced by 48%. These are official and encouraging data, but of course we cannot be satisfied as long as we have one dead on Serbian roads. The second factor that affects security, as I have already said, is the quality of the roads. By building Corridors 10 and Corridor 11, whose numerous shares have already been released into traffic, Serbia ranks in the order of countries with the most modern road infrastructure. In this way, conditions are created to pass a law that prescribes an increase in maximum speed on the highway from 120 to 130 kilometers per hour. I guess, you'll agree, and the goal of building a new infrastructure is to drive faster and safer. If we take into account the facts that I have already cited, but also that in most countries in the environment, as well as in most EU countries, the maximum speed of 130km per hour is fully justified for Serbia to pass such a law. This, of course, did not happen overnight and only because they are EU rules. In fact, ten years ago, there were no objective conditions. We didn't have roads like this at the time, and in the meantime, we're witnessing a much better car ride in Serbia, and those in transit are not even mentioned. This is a strategic measure, because by increasing speed the flow of tourists in transit is increasing which reduces the possibility of asphyxiation on our roads, especially during the holidays and during vacations. I would like to point out that on Corridor 10, the number of cars increased by 17 million from two years ago. At an increase of 10km per hour, the time from Horgos to Presevo is reduced by 22 minutes. But, however, when all circumstances are considered, safety must be first. It is therefore foreseen to remain restricted where the speed is 100 kilometers per hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35704	You're bringing an end to your colleague. Your group's time has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35705	Can I just have one more sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35706	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35707	Let me also refer to the traffic safety proposal, which prescribes much stricter penalties for violent driving. I support this measure, and I don't think there's enough severe punishment if it comes to human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35708	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35709	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another day we have an important set of laws on the agenda. I would say that they are probably looking at this transmission with special attention and interest, of course, all citizens of our country, but especially members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, because today, in the debate and voting day, we are making a decision on whether, as SNS, and certainly its MPs, we will support all the legal proposals that you have made for us here today. I especially want to address the problem of the housing issue of security forces in Serbia. I've heard from one opposition member, who's not here today, and I don't see many of them, they seem to be, and they're not interested in solving housing problems that concern our members of the security service. They showed that they were actually interested in solving their housing issues. So here we have seen the headlines of some daily newspapers talking about where one of the former advisers of the late prime minister villa of 5m euros came from. So today they do not solve their housing problems by members of the current government. Members of the current government and SNS are solving the housing problems that our members of the security services have, and we are solving it by keeping the promises made both to them and to the citizens of Serbia that at the subsidized prices we will build these apartments and that they will have the chance to solve what they have failed to solve for decades back and in which the state did not have the will to help them. This government, of course, is honored that it has kept its promise and that our members of the Security Service will have the opportunity to solve a major problem, perhaps that crucial life problem. It is also a shame that no one before us, no one before SNS, Alexander Vukic and you as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done such an important thing, has dared to see what cities, under what conditions, how many of those who have not solved their housing problem. They only solved the housing problems of their party members, their officials, their tycoons, and that's not working, there's that difference between us. Today, SNS MPs sit here not only to defend Zorana Mihajlovic, as the minister everyone here is attacking, but to defend those laws, those proposals that will improve the living conditions of citizens in Serbia, members of our security services. This is the key to our policy. The interest in us, the main interest, is how our citizens live, how the members of the security services live and their satisfaction. We are here to solve the problems of citizens and states, not our personal problems, and therefore, in previous elections and several previous election cycles, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have really assessed both the SNS and the presidential elections of President Aleksandar Vukic. That's why some get 1%, 2%, so they race who's stronger around 1% and 2%. Some have found that they are not worth participating in the political life of Serbia, so they have limited themselves to the political life of their political parties, so they show that they are not even interested in what is being said in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, where they earn salaries, where they receive salaries, pardons, do not earn, because they would be sitting here working for Serbian citizens today, they are dealing with their ultra-party elections today, and I believe they are also in big trouble. We have shown that Serbia is above all else above each individual and you have shown it as a minister. You've delivered concrete results, hundreds of kilometers of renewed railways, the fast rails we're working on. You've also shown what I particularly liked, you've made a nice partnership where you've said the interest rates of credit at which we, they say, are in debt, 2%, 1%, 3%, and you remember what interest rates the members of the Democratic Party, the former failed and decomposed regime, were at, by interest of 8%, 9% and 10%, where Serbian citizens came to bankruptcy and that we had to approach in an extremely difficult way to solve these major problems that they left us with. Of course, no one said that from the SNS, and certainly neither does Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, that Serbia does not want to be part of the EU. Several times, SNS President and Serbian President said Serbia wants to be an EU member, that it is the strategic goal and interest of Serbia, the interest of its citizens, to live by the standards that apply and which, I say, are widely accepted in Europe, in a civilized and normal world. There are, of course, those limits that Serbia will not go across to be somewhere. But if someone thinks we shouldn't be part of the EU, then they need to know what the price is. We need to be aware that 70% of our trade exchange is with EU countries, that jobs are mainly, in 80% of cases, those opening up companies from the EU, Germany, Austria, that the investments we have mainly from Germany and Austria are that more than 48,000 of our workers work in factories that are open from Germany. That's the reality in Serbia today, we have to accept that reality, see what the price is for it, if we say we don't want to be part of the EU, see if we can live that way. I think Serbia has its strategic orientation, that it has its own policy, which may be the most important point today, Serbia has its own policy, has an independent president of the Republic of Serbia, an independent one, I say, because no one can pressure it, can blackmail it, can't threaten it. The Serbian Progressive Party and this government and the president of Serbia, be quite sure, Serbian citizens, will never succumb to any blackmail or pressure, wherever they come from. Whatever the world's pressures come from, these pressures will be rejected by the state, but taking into account strategic interests and the future of Serbian citizens. We have no right to turn off light in Serbia today. We're here to build roads, to turn on the light in the ground, to speed up the tracks. Remember the railroad. They'll talk about the railways. Well, the railroad was, the trains were moving, here, I was going, I'm going to give an example, about eight years ago to Novi Sad by train, I traveled six hours to Novi Sad. Let's be serious. You're sitting on the train today to see what trains look like today, and what they used to look like, what tracks look like today, and what they used to look like. Is it perfect? Far from being perfect. Are our railroads as modern as Western Europe? Far from being like in Western Europe, but not in the 18th century anymore, as the former regime's members have left us. Today we are not afraid of change in Serbia, as they were afraid. They were afraid of change only because these changes put them in a position to never be in power in the Republic of Serbia again. It's a fear in them. I also want to point out, as an SNS MP, that I am proud of everything you do as a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of all the criticisms that are coming. You know what? In Serbia, they always criticize a man who works. If you weren't doing anything, you probably wouldn't be criticized. Since you're working, they're criticizing you. Now, those who criticise you should say what they did for Serbia, did they do one meter in Serbia, not a mile, one meter. Did they open one of the factories? They closed hundreds of factories and hundreds of thousands of jobs in Serbia. They wanted to close the future of children in Serbia. As SNS, led by Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we provide a future for the citizens of Serbia, and in that sense we are all, as SNS MPs, firm with President Aleksandar Vukic's policies, do not worry about that. In this respect, of course, we absolutely support everything you do as Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35710	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35711	The Honored Chairman, a respected minister, respected members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, I will use this opportunity to briefly and in principle refer to the bill that regulates special conditions for building apartments for members of the security forces. As a man who has spent my life in construction, I must welcome this government's initiative to deal permanently with the housing issue for security workers in Serbia, because we must not as a government and as a state to allow people who have put their lives in the position of protecting the security of the state and citizens to be tenants, to be social cases or as homeless people to wait for retirement. However, as an MP and as a socialist, by conviction and political definition, I must say this opportunity that I feel guilty that this Lex specialis did not include health workers, education, as well as employees of local self-government, I am particularly stressing this – local self-government and public administration, because you know, respected minister, that there are the least salaries in Serbia, because that category of citizens also works 40 years, but during that time it cannot reach squares over the head. It seems to me that we are also making some form of discrimination between the professions of civil servants who face the same problem. One will be able to buy a square for 500 euros, and the other will not, and they are all our neighbours and citizens. Also, as the legislator predicted, a decision on the choice of location is made by the government, on a proposal from the commission, and probably with agreements with local self-government. However, I have the impression that if the location is chosen in this way, as a settlement or as an individual object, the ghetto is formed and I think it is much more acceptable to have others in selected locations and buildings, such as doctors, professors, engineers, farmers, workers, as well as workers of private enterprises. That's why I believe and suggest, Madam Minister, that you share my opinion, that you will surely come up with a proposal for these citizens to solve the housing issue in the same way as the members of the security force. As a construction engineer, I can say that this is a complex project at the same time, but simply depending on how it is viewed and how serious it is to be realized. In any case, part of the job will be done by the Republic and part of the work of local self-government, which means that local budgets will also have certain expenditures or reduced revenues on this basis. That's why you should come out with a precise calculation, and I believe that's the kind of calculation you have. Unlike that Dulic law, which was also a lex specialis, there should be no mistakes and failures here, there should be no delays and deadlines in performing the work, which is the most important must be serious surveillance. I would not like to remind this occasion that in Dulic's project surveillance failed, so we later received an affair in construction material and an affair known as stinky buildings. Here in Article 14(2). The bill provides for a decision on the selection of construction materials to be taken by the commission on the proposal of the building minister. I think it should have been the other way around, that the decision was made by the minister, and on a proposal from the expert commission, because this is how it turns out that a minister who is an economist suggests the type and quality of building materials, equipment and installations that are being built into a residential building, and that is why I believe that the government as an investor will make an effort to provide supervision and a commission that will take this task seriously. As for the selection of locations, you predicted that the election was made by the government commission, so in this case I ask that you do not forget small municipalities and that a certain number of housing units be built for security, police and the military and small municipalities. To happen to us, as I see here, that one of the first housing units will be built in Vranje, that members of the unit from Bosilegrad, Vladic's Han, Presevo, Shops, have to compete for housing units in Vranja or Crno Trava, Vlasotinac, Leskovac and not count further. So we have to predict that these housing units are also working in small municipalities. When it comes to the price of 500 euros per square, there will be a lot of objections from the construction sector, as it will certainly impact negatively on housing in construction. However, this should be a one-time state intervention and all of us coming from the construction sector must accept it as part of the Serbian government's social policy. That's why I think it's important for the government to come out as soon as possible with a precise list of locations and the area of housing units to be built so that the construction industry can review its plans in time for the next period, because the builders can't, on market conditions, create a 500-euro square and we now have to think about tens of thousands of families living from their work. This is why my role is difficult, because I speak as a socialist who supports this political idea, but as a representative of the construction profession, so at the same time I have to balance the social needs of society and preserve the competition in the construction industry. For example, if you free me from paying contributions to building land, building infrastructure, building sidewalks, if someone else pays for building joint rooms, basements, garages, attics, elevators and other common systems in the building, I will personally build an apartment in the middle of Vracar for 500 euros square. As for the other allegations in the bill relating to the structure, quality of dwellings, I think it is unnecessary because we have clear existing laws, regulations and normative, and I believe that apartments planned for members of security forces should not be lower than existing standards, but not higher because all citizens subsidise their construction. I repeat, I support the initiative but I'm against the Lex specialist because I believe that under the existing housing building, a modus to the apartment could be found, only an apartment costs 500 euros and everything else will be compensated. I would also like to take the opportunity to suggest that the conditions of the building tender are realistic and acceptable for domestic firms in terms of reference, that it does not happen to us as we build highways and that there are companies from Greece, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, and no of our companies could participate in the reconstruction of these roads. Here, I participated in a tender for the Nis Clinical Center, at the time neither the Energy Project as our largest company could meet the conditions for KC Nis, however, if we want to preserve our construction industry we must prepare criteria for tenders to meet our construction industry. I also want to remind you to pay particular attention to international tenders. It often happens to us that someone who gives money asks the company to do business, because they care about foreign banks that our companies go bankrupt. This mass housing project should be a function of raising all the capacities of our builders, so that we do not find that the best masters do not go after bread to Russia, Germany, France, but that they work proudly for their country and earn their wages. If we limit the price of squares to 500 euros, we limit the wages of the builders. I'll give you a few examples. For example, from experience, we don't need these building standards, for one square of plaster, we need an hour of masonry. For an ordinary building cube, to understand people who do construction, we need a building daily. If we now account for 500 euros per square cent of the calculation of 3 euros per hour and so are, three to four euros from the building captain in Serbia, and if that same good builder goes abroad and works for 20 to 30 euros, we will be out of labour in construction. Also, I can tell you that we have information that last year in Belgrade, only one builder is enrolled in schools. In black grass, ten, and Black grass was a famous place where all the best builders were not in Serbia but in Europe. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to the training of personnel in construction, because we will be left without plumbers, builders, moguls, people for this kind of money certainly won't work with us, and if we limit the price of the apartment, we certainly can't as construction firms increase the price of satin. But anyway, this is a great opportunity to raise a complete construction operation on its feet, but the condition is that a country that is an investor is never late to pay for a day without contractors and subcontractors having to borrow from business banks to pay their salaries and contributions. At the end of the criteria by which future customers can become owners of these apartments, I think it is important that such criteria are established as soon as possible and that the rules are the same and fair for all so that people already know whether and under what conditions they can solve the housing issue and that they can plan their family. It is certain that the needs are greater than current offers and real opportunities of the state, and therefore the Government and the Ministry must have a ready answer for this problem as well. I wish the government and the Department of Construction a lot of success in this great venture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35712	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35713	Dear Messenger, thank you for your comments, thank you for your good wishes. At the end of a few answers. First, nothing can be done without a tender, without a public call, so everyone is welcome to make a public call, or a tender for the construction of these housing facilities. They are typical according to all European standards, there is no lower quality, it refers to energy efficiency and beyond for all other conditions. I don't know where that idea came from, because one minute you mentioned the word lower standard and there are no lower standards, these aren't buildings or apartments that will be of a lower quality, they'll be European quality, like all the other apartments that work. The building time is about 12 months. So we were real. The manager of this project is Serbia's Construction Directorate. Far from being the one to choose material, it's what professional people do, but I'm officially the one to sign it. A list of materials and equipment has already been proposed, it is material and equipment of domestic production, and I think it's important. One moment at the beginning of your discussion, you mentioned the question, or you realized it could be discrimination. It's not discrimination, because first of all, the Constitution allows us, under the same conditions, to provide that one category of opportunity to solve one of their own issues. This time it's a residential matter. So if we're going to do it further and wider for other categories, that's something we're going to see when this project starts to happen. I think the first step may be to realize this project just by adopting, or adopting this bill by the MPs, because it is the highest House, and after things go further as I said yesterday, we are not closing the door very much, we are going to apply this model to other categories. You also mentioned members, say, security forces thinking they're only at the state level, the police are at the local level. What will be an advantage to the municipalities and units of local self-government, besides the fact that it will certainly employ one of its own, therefore, local operation and all those companies that will be able to work at local level, local self-government units, so the municipalities will have a safe opportunity to achieve tax revenues. So, of those apartments to be made. So this is not just a project to solve housing problems, so this is a project that allows for what you said and expressed concern at the very beginning, which is the growth of construction and development of construction operations. You also mentioned one more thing that our companies can't work on corridors. I have to tell you, no tenders are being made, because let's say Corridor 10 of all the companies chosen were chosen on the basis of a public call, or a tender. They don't make tenders for companies, they make tenders so we have quality roads according to the highest standards. You know perfectly well, I don't need to tell you about it, but it's a fact, I'll tell you one thing, all of these paths, of course, as subcontractors, are mostly made by our companies, but when our companies reported for one share, and that was specifically the Serbian House – Levosoje. So, we're from the budget, we've previously broken a contract with a foreign company that hasn't executed its contract within the time limit. We've defined money from the budget and made a public call, a tender and invited domestic companies to join together, because when you're united, then you can almost certainly get a job in the tenders. One consortium got the job, starting with the price being really too low, and then it turned out to be a general problem in general in the Public Procurement Act, because the price was specific. On the other hand, the consortium's company could not do so within the time limit that was planned, which they themselves suggested in the dynamics to finish their work. So we ourselves still have a lot of problems in our construction companies and we have to find a way to solve it together. Not by giving them jobs, because we do them no good, but by strengthening them to be financial, and financially they will be stronger when they have good equipment, quality workers, and here we come up with this biggest problem in our country that is not just about construction, which is people who are going to do this job. We are today, unfortunately, importing maltenes, so to speak, armymen or workers on Corridor 10, because we don't have the labour force to pull these jobs out. It's our systemic, strategic problem, and we'll see how we'll solve it in the next period. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35714	You have no right to a replica, Comrade Tonchev. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic, two minutes left from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35715	Thank you. I will speak briefly of the proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of the security forces. The implementation of this project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia and will be realised in phases. Security forces, as well as pensioners formerly belonging to them, will exercise the right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions, with the conditions laid down by this law and by the acts adopted by the minister. Given the importance and responsibility of the security forces' work, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, and also that the largest number among the same decades failed to resolve the housing issue permanently, the problem was decided to be resolved systematically. In fact, the necessity to pass a special law is seen as starting simultaneously with the implementation of the project in several different locations, in several cities requiring systematic resolution of all issues and overcoming the problems that can arise in the realisation itself. I will point out that the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces is great, and therefore this law aims to achieve the project itself effectively and efficiently. It is also significant that, from the aspect of the constitutionality of the adoption of this law, which according to its legal nature, Lex specialis did not deviate from the basic constitutional principle of protection, which is prescribed in Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to note that realisation of the project will affect GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and the growth of the number of employees. A key item in the law is the mandatory participation of domestic operators, VAT growth, property tax, denial, reduction of administrative procedures. And to conclude, all members of the security force will have the opportunity to resolve their housing issue on equal and favourable terms with the conditions laid down by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35716	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Kostic, has the word. He's not here. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35717	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to thank you first for bringing in so many associates. It just means you respect this tall home and us MPs. Thanks for that. Of course you'll always, at least from us on this side, get basic working conditions, which is water. Thank you. We have a set of laws today. I'm only going to talk about one thing, and that's the bill, I think it's very important, about the special conditions for the realisation of the housing project for the security forces. Why? Because we have 30,000 people in security services without apartments. This is a decade-long problem and here it is, finally, for the first time since the SNS came to power, it has built a project and is finally building apartments for security services. I would disagree with the exposure of one of the colleagues who said we should level this category of security, people who work in security services, people who work in local self-government. In my opinion, that's inadmissible. I've worked in local self-government, and here I am at the ministry, not in the BIA, the police and everything, but it's important to understand that these are the people who keep our dream. We're building these apartments because people need to have basic living conditions. We don't give it to them, we give it to them at decent prices, because the investor is the Republic of Serbia, finally, and that's the way it is. One is the municipality, the other are security services. Of course, by that I mean the Ministry of Defence, the Army of the Republic of Serbia, then the BIA. It also includes military pensioners, all these structures, as well as the Ministry of Justice and that part for criminal sanctions. It's very important that we make these apartments for them. I look forward to the construction going on in early September, because these people deserve it. What should be said is that the project is done in phases, that the first phase starts in September, perhaps even earlier, that the project completes, documentation, is done by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that some urban procedures are done by local self-government. So, people need to know they're going to be exempt from all taxes and taxes, so the price is without documentation made by the Republic and without the urban plans of local self-government. The price per square will be 500 euros with VAT and it is one very decent price, very different, to the soul, from Gilas' apartments that were very favourable, of 1,200 euros and plus VAT, which would be around 1,350 euros. So half, someone who now works in security can buy two apartments for that one of his. Let's get back to the apartment categorization. The categorization is next, it's from 32 square-square-square-square-square-squares to 92 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. Why is this law good? First of all, because we're solving the decade-long problem of not having apartments, that means one. Under two, the VAT is growing. The GDP is growing, we are reducing the speed of these administrative procedures and we are ultimately filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. How? By buying these apartments and paying taxes. So it's just better than the law. Is that right, buddy? That's right. What else is there to point out? That the first phase is already being built in Belgrade and Novi Sad, by 400 apartments, also being built in Kragujevac and Kraljen by 200 apartments, Nis 188 and Vranj 198 apartments, a total of 1578 apartments worth around 65m euros. Bravo. That's how the government is responsible. I'm sure all my colleagues will support the bill and I'd say that what's very important is that we hire the construction industry, the mass of people will work, and not only that, but everything about the building will be employed, the economy will work completely, and what's most important, we raise that social moment. We are a socially responsible government, first of all, thinking about you, and we MPs are very looking forward to this law. Someone was talking about malfeasance. There's no malfeasance, because control is about to be supervised by the Department of Construction. Thank you for your attention. There's a lot of speakers behind me. I will be very happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35718	Thank you. People's MP Miroslav Aleksic is not here. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go, colleague Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35719	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this, here we are, roughly, having a situation to attend in the last two days and to see what it looks like when you're trying to criticize something, and you have absolutely no arguments about it. First you heard them tell you why you didn't do something, then they criticize you why you haven't done it before, then when you do something, they say to you, "Well, why are you in a hurry?" This is, in fact, telling you that it is not a constructive debate, which should be appropriated in this respected home, but a purely evil intention and insults that follow from it. Now, these insults at the expense of the president of the state and his family, you as members of the government, have somehow become their daily life, and have begun to insult the people of Serbia. We heard yesterday that we'd share them with the pâtés of that money on the stands and God knows what else. But let's get back to some serious stuff. The citizens have already had the opportunity to grade in the elections and watch every day. They'll get a chance to say what they think again. Something concrete. As far as this proposal for a law relating to the construction of apartments for security guards is concerned, I would somewhere set out some three positive effects, and when it comes to the positive effects of social protection, i.e. the overall social situation, solve the housing issue of every man as one of the basic issues of life, let alone when it comes to twenty thousand people, is a really big thing from the point of view of social protection. Another important effect is a positive impact on the state's general security situation, because it only takes care of and secures from the point of view of the basic needs of the security forces, which automatically affects our country's overall security. The third part is the launch of the construction industry. The construction industry is also dragging many other industries and all that will result positively from this, in terms of increasing the number of sites, increasing the number of employees, etc. The fourth is moral, which concerns, first of all, all of us sitting here. In fact, on the day of the government's election, we either made promises to you on the basis of an exposé or, in a folks' way, we trusted you to lead this country operationally and we didn't cheat. You promised this thing, and as our president of the state, the current prime minister and the current prime minister and you as ministers, and here we have witnessed that this is not just an empty promise, that these are facts and that we are moving this thing actively. Another law I would refer to, it's this law on enrollment proceedings. I personally thought, it was little, there wasn't much, to say, debate about it, but I think this law even affects the largest and widest layers of the population. How has that been solved so far? The difference is very large. Namely, when you buy some real estate, you don't acquire property with a contract at the notary. The right of property is obtained by enrolling in a catastrophe of immovableity. Well, that's where they started and there's a lot of problems. Citizens, whether due to ignorance, whether because of the poor health condition, because it requires going to certain counters, whether because of the mere impunity, often this contract that they verify when buying property has not been carried out in the cataster. Problems come up later. After a few years, when you want to sell that property, when you want to get a license to adapt that property, when you want to participate with that real estate in some contest, when you want to take credit, anything, you find that you're not really the owner, that is. You don't have the right to property, because you've never put it in the catastrophe. Well, that's when the problems started. Let me just say one worse example. I witnessed this when it came to refugees and competition for the adaptation of their facilities, many people didn't put it in the cadastre, and then they had problems, they couldn't participate in the competitions. But worse than all that, there was a situation that the previous owner of the apartment was in debt in the meantime. He remains as the holder of property rights in the catastra and then after a few years a court enforcer appears who takes the apartment from the buyer. The buyer, of course, becomes neither guilty nor obliged, the victim of the whole situation. These are the things I've talked about with both citizens and notaries and lawyers in Subotica, where I come from, and I think they're the fastest ones, now the notaries will be obliged to report it and thus we'll protect every man's property rights on a much bigger scale. Not to say, and when it comes to these apartments that are under construction, they will no longer be able to be sold twice, because there will be a premise, or what you called it, and the purchases and will be protected both by both the buyer and the citizens of Serbia from all of it. That's where we get to the key point. Dear Minister, distinguished members of the government, as long as you bring them before us and as you propose such legal norms that will protect the citizens of Serbia and in any way facilitate their daily life, so far you will have the support of us SNS MPs, and yet, together with our president, we support the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35720	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35721	Thank you. There's been a lot of noise here yesterday and today and of course when we have such a bunch of laws, I've missed it now to bring this material, it's once again solid thousands and change pages, it's not easy to pass and of course there are very solid solutions in that forest, professional solutions like the state, it has to work somehow. There are services that are tasked with ensuring that the functioning of the state and far from thinking that everything that comes from the government is automatically bad and everything that is proposed on this side is automatically good. We can say that sometimes in the heat of combat, political, pragmatic. We know it's not like that, even the citizens know it, no matter what sometimes they like when someone on one side or the other says you don't know anything, you have no idea and nothing's wrong. So far away from having no good solutions, a catastre, but mentioned and various other things. However, two, as I would say, the most intriguing law is this first and conditionally said last, which we are yet to discuss, this first one concerning the construction of apartments for security forces and this last one on this commission to determine the consequences of the bombing of the poor uranium. It's also the media, of course, the most attractive thing. It is no accident that this was put at the beginning and finally, because in some way, both the law and the other initiative give the opportunity for the government to then present itself in the best light, and that's fine. What was wrong with me and what bothered me in the earlier practice of these sessions, that actually the most important things and the most important things are put in between, dragging somewhere between, so we can't talk about it, especially given this already known practice of amendments that are applied to the first members of the first law, whatever the first law, or the first point, is. And when I think that's not good, I don't think the government is responsible. It's about our relationship, how we regulate our relationships, and I don't think that's good, and that sooner or later it's gonna have to change. My question and my dilemmas, there's no illusion that in these five or six minutes I can touch it all seriously, it concerns the most important things. They've already asked you, Madam Minister, but I have to repeat that question without these political innuendo whether there's some dark background or not. I really don't see, that's the meaning of my amendment, which either won't come to order, so, in this way, there's discrimination, that in some ways being doubled, it may not be discrimination, but duplication of members of security forces and all other civil servants, not to say all the other in charge, those who work and earn in so-called. to the state sector. Of course, we're all watching that cute series of my new countrymen, those archivals, etc., and it's become a synonym little for that state business, that there's nothing going on there, but you, me and God and those people who work there know how hard, bloody work, after all, the job that allows this country to work so well, and that there are bad ones, that there are in every crop of dolls, of course there is, and it's not disputed. I mean, medical workers are already mentioned, scientific workers, young people leaving, I don't see why, not slowing down the need to improve the position of people working in the security sector, this way, they would single them out. I don't think there's enough reason for that, and I don't think there's any need. No matter what 1,500 of them may be satisfied, I am happy, especially if the criteria are real and if indeed the best and those who need it the most come to those apartments. So it's simply a dilemma that, regardless of the rhetorical attractiveness of the answer, remains and is the most controversial part of this proposal and the fundamental regret. These others are less essential, but I'd take the opportunity to ask you. You mentioned the answer yesterday to one of your colleagues, the famous illegal construction on Pancic's top, and you said, "It's slow in progress, we can't break the law." I would remind you that even when there was an example from the Savamal case, which I didn't talk about much, and there was a dispute in progress and there was a judicial dispute in progress and there were some actions that prejudged the outcome of the trial. I just ate a donkey wolf, and those barracks were knocked down, right, and they were never there. So, I am not now entering the justification of the project "Belgrade on Water" and the objections justified or not, simply that act is an example to me of how, when a state or when someone in power is interested, something can be destroyed overnight, and when it comes to Pancic's summit, then it cannot and should not be. It seems to me that both of you and I will pass the mandate, as will most of us sitting here on the one hand and on the other, and that object will not be destroyed. He's, of course, symbolic. Serbia will not now fall or survive on that one illegal facility, but when at the top of Serbia, in the most attractive place in Serbia, symbolically and in some way touristically attractive, you obviously stick your finger in the eyes of such construction, it is simply a bad message, especially since throughout Serbia we have and is very energetically intervened in situations that are much more important, where someone, I won't say, is poor, but some ordinary citizen, modest, builds something, builds, expands. Moreover, I didn't want him to take part in the campaign before these previous Belgrade elections, and when it came to the fact that he was the first on the SNS list, so somewhere on Zlatibor, he had some kind of illegal construction, so it turns out to be a family house, a family estate. It didn't matter to me that he's up to something there now, so, well, everybody does it in a way, and he doesn't ask for an automatic permit. This thing with Pancic's top, this one with the roof of Serbia, this one with 1,000 square meters of solid construction, and you get a permit for a cabin or a wooden assembly facility, is an example of haughtiness that certainly couldn't have been some waitress or, I don't know how, an unemployed face from Smederev or Smederevska Palanka to get permission or to realize. I'd like you to answer that. I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35722	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35723	Thank you for your comments, but I don't understand anything right now. So, first you rebelled for those so-called so-called. Barracks here in Belgrade, and now you're telling me that on Pancic's top it should be torn down. This ministry and all the other ministries, this ministry that is responsible, when we talk about building permits issued by our ministry, is doing everything in accordance with the law. A criminal report has also been filed, a real administrative dispute is being conducted, and when it's over, then we'll see what it looks like next. I'm about the institutions doing their job, respecting every decision of our institutions, because we are, and that's what you once said, yet one serious state. When you talk about this law on special conditions and lex specialization, I understand the dilemma and I understand the thinking, but you should know that we have not made any discrimination that is against constitutional, because we have one category of employees, or one category of population for which we have made the same conditions within that category, and that is something that is in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. As I told your colleague, we have a special refugee law where we take care of refugees through that law or some other law, so for certain categories of Serbian citizens, which doesn't mean I repeat once again, that we will not expand this project and this model further. I think today's topic, first of all, is this law, to see if anything here should be better within this law, and then when we see how it's done, because yet every law is a living law and every project is a project that we've planned. Let's see what it looks like on the ground, and then we'll see that we continue to expand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35724	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35725	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is my pleasure to talk about proposals that are on the agenda today, and as far as they are concerned, from a certain angle, basic elements for the development of a country, which should take the first step in taking place in certain processes. First of all, it is very important that the Law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and water cadasar be applied first because of efficiency, because of the electronic business system and because of, above all, important laws in the area of construction. In particular, legal frameworks relating to the issue of building permits, and the area has defined the Republic of Serbia as the tenth place on world-renowned lists. When it comes to a set of traffic laws, it can in principle be said that such proposals are on the agenda today as a result of the detailed, systematic, dedicated work of responsible persons engaged in certain places and who, as a backbone, have a SNS programme. It is a work based on measuring the results, on the assessment of the report, on transparency, on comprehensive consideration of all circumstances, and above all taking into account the creation of the best conditions for the life of Serbian citizens. By coming to the SNS authorities, investment in traffic infrastructure, in all modes of traffic, co-ordination of traffic visions and the use of the well-being that traffic carries with it is recognised as a priority. Major efforts have been made, and the results talk about this in air, rail, road traffic, taking care of safety and finding solutions to modernising them. Responsible leadership long-term plans solutions in the interests of Serbian citizens, respects the profession of these laws, which are on the agenda today, it is evident that the creation of these laws and how relevant institutions are involved. The very important issues dealt with by the Law on Roads, which relate to the conditions and manner of governance and to protection and maintenance, in the way of financing and conditions of construction and reconstruction, are defined by such a proposal. I would especially point out that one of the main objectives is to improve traffic safety on public roads. The improvement of traffic security is seen as containing all the necessary provisions to define the requirement to meet the public road. That Serbia is a developing country with a space for solutions that are applicable and in more developed countries tells the bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act on the roads through the proposed solution on the change of provisions relating to maximum speed on the highway. As the primary task of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic is Serbia's progress with a fundamental goal of improving living standards for all citizens in relation to traffic, I would like to point out that it is evident that much is being taken care of and that Serbia is now in a position to think about using its position precisely because of large investment in traffic infrastructure, improving, adapting legal solutions to emerging situations, maximum use of all modes of traffic, and in return for Serbia giving new foreign investments, new factories, new jobs. Foreign investment is obviously due to good infrastructure, as public debt cuts, quality traffic connections and investment in the industrial zone. When we mention investment in the industrial zone, I will stress that the municipality from which I come, Ub municipality, recognises the benefits of building the E763 Belgrade highway – the southern Adriatic and that it is already largely in the construction of the first factory in the industrial zone. Also, from the point of view of the obligations of local self-government, a very important proposal is also the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Passengers and the transport of freight in road transport. The municipality of Ub in the last six years has seen an increasing number of rehabilitated kilometers of municipal and untegorized roads, road construction, the integration of parts of municipalities. We have a situation that the once untegrated roads now, in their capacity and in the intensity of the traffic that is taking place on them, need to get the status of the municipal road. The responsible management of the Ub municipality puts the construction of roads as a priority and because of such action we have the satisfaction of our citizens, we need to introduce new bus lines through populated areas, as well as what I have mentioned, new investments, because simply, the municipality provides basic elements for development. Until a few years ago, it was obvious that there was a serious struggle with the recovery, not to mention the patching of impact holes. In the end, I am sure that the laws we are discussing today, after adoption, will contribute to the development of our country and will certainly have the support of Serbian Progressive Party MPs in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35726	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35727	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister with Associates, at first I would like to commend you for coming with so many associates, because it really shows in my perception that you have seriously accessed this set of laws. When we look at this set of laws, of course they can be in one united debate. There are indeed some laws and protocols and agreements that anyone who is well-intentioned and who thinks well of this country should commend. Protocols and air traffic agreements between Serbia and Morocco, on air traffic between Serbia and Tunisia, the Law on the Cataster is really things we should praise and I have no problem with that. But I'm going to talk about the first law, and then a little bit later, through the discussion, I'm going to change the Traffic Safety Act, because I have some misunderstandings. The first law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, yesterday when representatives of the Serbian Dvora Movement spoke, said that this is what we have been up for years and something that is in principle good. It's also good that the price is going to be 500 euros per square, and I don't want to be part of a group of those villains who are going to say that there used to be a 380, now it's 500, but again, that's a fair price. These 1,578 apartments will be built in six locations and what interests me most is that of those 1,578 apartments 200 will be in the Kingdom. Now, as I'm interested in having your flats in the King, I have certain concerns, so I'd like you to give me the answers to the questions I'm going to ask you later. First of all, I don't understand why it is necessary to pass a special law to build apartments for a kind of official? In principle, legal experts say any law governing a different legal regime in one case is not a good thing, because it violates the unity of the legal system. But yesterday, I heard in your discussion that you said that such laws might be for some of the other types of Serbian officials, and we are left to wait. The city needs to secure the location, the incoming infrastructure to the building it's going to build, and that's fine. Now we come to my first problem which is little and personal, but it represents the way and mechanism of the functioning of the government and the SNS. Tell me, Madam Minister, since you mentioned yesterday that you have a specific location in the King, is it logical that I, as a National MP from the Kings, do not know where that location is? Believe it or not, I don't know. This shows the Serbian Progressive Party's practice of having desirable and undesirable MPs. I belong to a group of others because I am the MP of the opposition. It's the same practice that happens when Mrs. Prime Minister comes to the King, so all the MPs call except me, and that's the same practice, and you've come many times to the King, but you haven't had a chance to attend these meetings of yours myself. I believe that my questions are always well-intentioned and that they can bring first the benefits of the citizens of the city, the second opposition and the third, if we will, the authorities. Madam Minister, there was an earthquake in the King on 3 November 2010. From then to this day we are engaged in urban regeneration of the city of Kings, and 10. 11. In 2016, the House passed a Law confirming an 8m-euro loan agreement. Then I was the only one of the entire opposition of this parliament to return to parliament and vote in favour of the law. And yesterday I had calls from the citizens of the city of Kings to be covered by this urban regeneration, as well as from those citizens who should be users of apartments that are to be built and told to me – responsible for implementing this loan is the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, whose head you are on, nothing is done, nothing has been done, the shovel is being stabbed, the law is to be fulfilled, that loan by the end of next year, and they tell me – Vesović, we are afraid that this will be carried out too? Please answer me first and second questions later. Another major problem that we will face in the King is the problem that the King absolutely does not have any construction operations. It is a good thing and the Serbian Dvori Movement supports it, that 80% will be domestic, both producers and performers, but unfortunately, profits in the city of Kralje will remain only from those taxes. I want my city to live better. And why don't we have an operation? Well, we don't have it because after that earthquake, we've arrested people in a row because they've had, you say, abuses in it, and to this day, nothing's decided, nobody's guilty, so we're going to get into a situation and pay for it. And that's when the SNS was in power, the city's government was in bad shape again. It is particularly controversial in the law of Article 22 where the decision of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the housing complex can be provided for the possibility of providing parking space in public garages, i.e. on public areas near a residential building. For your information, we don't have a public garage in the city of Kralje, for your information, 8,000 vehicles of people exiled from Kosovo came to the Kingdom and we have a huge parking problem. At one of the last sessions of your colleague, Minister Stefanovic, I drew attention to the minister in charge that nowhere but in the city of Kralje we do not have a situation for the police to pass and a picture of the vehicle passing through the vehicle, which is parked, charges fines, and this law provides for us to provide more, that is, not to provide parking, but to send those vehicles to the street. And while I'm at Minister Stefanovic's, a little digression on the Security Act, you said yesterday, when we said we proposed an amendment that was rejected, that you proposed the amendment a year ago, I believe you, but what did you say to us, not the Minister? You know, newspapers say you have a problem with the prime minister, I just thought maybe you're not in communication with Minister Stefanovic, either. Tell him that what we were bringing back then, we could adopt, not repeat anything today. This is how I stayed convinced that this change came not because we have better roads, because we have to agree that they were the same 15 days ago, as they are today, but that someone from the EU ordered us not to pay their passersby through Serbia, if they drive 120 an hour for God's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35728	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35729	I have to admit, you've made me laugh now. All the conspiracy theories with you. The topic was not my relationship with Minister Stefanovic, and by the way, I respect him and we have excellent co-operation, but the subject was cheating. You signed off on the proposal we made, just for the sake of the truth. That's what I told your president. Now let's get some facts. First, you said the price of apartments would be 500 euros per square. So I'm still hoping that you're reading all the words within some argument, and the word that was in front of 500 is - the maximum price is 500. That means it can be lower, it doesn't have to be 500, and in the interior of Serbia it will certainly be a lower price per square. That's one thing. Another thing, you say - the city will give away parcels. How do you not know what plot it is in the King? First of all, I'm really surprised that you don't know, because you have a lot of right, you're doing a plan of general regulation, the Ribnica is about, so it's still in progress, you have a lot of right to see that plan and see where it's going to be built, and it applies to all the locations. So, I'd say you don't have a problem with the Ministry and the Government here, and this is with the government that she proposed and supported the SNS, but with how interested you are to really see whether that plan is working or simply saying something to me today. Second, you're asking for the King's building. You said well at the beginning of 2010, then there were some other governments who went into urban regeneration and didn't do anything. In 2014, we confirmed the loan and it wasn't that simple, because when you don't do something in time, and not us, but some before us, then you need some extra conversations and everything, so we can even get that credit approved. For your information, if I were to inform you again, because if you hadn't come here on Friday or next week, you'd say you weren't informed. The first building works are on the move, as far as I'm aware, for the next seven days. So I believe you will have the opportunity to see with your eyes in the King. Then, give us a flat-rate assessment of what our construction operation is, I wouldn't look back at it at all, I'm absolutely sure our construction operation can and will manage to implement this important project, because I think it's important for, first of all, not just members like I said to the security service, but first of all for our country. Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35730	You have no right to the replica of colleague Vesic. (Dragan Vesovic: Is it possible that I alone have no right to reply from all MPs? I don't understand why you're looking for a replica. (Dragan Vesovic: To explain. You have to explain your questions. (Dragan Vesovic: The minister did not understand me well. The minister didn't understand you very well. Later on. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35731	Thank you, Your Honor. By chance, I'll answer a few questions. Once upon a time I was an MP who started, and Mr. Ivan of the Kings, we raised the issue of urban regeneration after many years, after three years, and this assembly majority, where the SNS and the SPS were and we made a decision and we are still in charge of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The minister replied, the papers will begin in the next seven to ten days. It is my pleasure that in the King, and Mr. Vesovic is a councilman in the City Assembly and he has had the honor and pleasure, I am not a councilman, he can look at the detailed plan of regulation of the city of Kralje and I know that it is Voćar's meadows. So, all of us in the King know where Vocarer's meadows, dear Vesovic, could've met you, too. Do you have other assignments and duties these days? All the laws on the agenda are laws of development, I will say developmental, so just as my colleague Vesovic mentioned urban regeneration. It will be my pleasure, and he, too, I'm sure, that in August, we'll have work at one end of town, so somewhere in Dosite Street, where the first building of urban regeneration will be built and on the second part of the city in Ribnica, where these 190 apartments will begin to be built for security services. That we don't have operatives? Well, we have, we have an operation. Nikolic has done a phenomenal project and a good project, which is the "Glavcic Bridge". It was our royal company that worked. Do our businessmen need to join in and make some kind of consortium? Probably, but it's not our MP's job to talk about it again. So that's what the businessmen should do, so we'll go back to something, here's Mr. Tonchev. Mr. Tonchev was doing a big project on Goc and ended it successfully. What else I would look at and focus on, which is a question of rail interoperability. You know that I worked with you and with my colleague, and I was a member of the railway assembly, and my theme was mostly the King's, that railroad knot in the King's day. I think there's one drawback and that such a railway knot that was in that old Yugoslavia in 1800 and some years should remain not only because of the Kings but because of the project that is being done towards Lesk. So we know that this is the node of Kraljevo, Lešak, Kosovo Polje, etc., and we have the part that I would ask for, and I hope that you are following it, since you know that there is a large trafo station next to the Kings, which has been done and large funds have been invested there, to ratify that part from Kraljevec to Kragujevac, i.e. I would say already that it is right on the corner and towards Kruševec. I think that with all these top projects that we're working on and on Corridor 10 and all, we should finish the part of connecting Corridor 10, or Thessalonica with the port of Bar, because from the Kings to Požega everything is done. It's just a small piece of about 40 kilometers away, from Stalac to the King is really in pretty bad shape, and that's where the two day trains go. For a wonderful miracle, the train leaving for Jagodina, believe it's full every day. It's that wonderful train from that Russian composition, or not, that's the Schedler composition, as well as the composition that goes towards Kragujevac, unfortunately there's a lot less passengers because of the problems we have in that location, somewhere around Georgia where we have big problems with the underpass or, as they say, with that infrastructure. I don't want to brag about anything anymore. I think I've said a lot. Just keep doing this and doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35732	Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. What replica? (Dragan Vesovic: I was mentioned six times. Not once. When you say it, then I know I'm right. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35733	Very short. Thank you, you're absolutely right about the King, about the railroad. Next year it'll be done. You're right, it's a small part, 40 kilometers compared to everything we do. We're doing a project this year, next year we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35734	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35735	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, I will pay my attention to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. To the public, this law regulates the conditions, criteria, way and procedure for the construction of apartments for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the MUP, the BIA and the Ministry of Justice, specifically the Administration for the implementation of criminal sanctions, as well as for persons formerly members of the Security Forces who have obtained the right to retire in one of these state bodies, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of that project. We of the DJB Group have three fundamental objections to this law. First, these are insufficiently clearly defined criteria, then insufficiently clear procedures and unnecessary bypassing of existing laws and unnecessary urgency. The amendments we have submitted are aimed at correcting it, if we are to come up to discuss them at all, because again we have a situation where a huge number of amendments have been submitted that essentially change nothing in this law, but serve solely to spend valuable time in debate. By preparing for this session, I have consulted with members of the Republic of Serbia's Army and would like to present their views and arguments regarding this bill. As far as the military and security sectors are concerned, and what is not good in this bill is the general intention, that is, the general objective, because if the desire to resolve the residential issue of members of the military and security forces is permanent, then this is not the way they claim. First, about 20,000 people work indefinitely in the military, in the MUP for about 42,000, in the BIA about three thousand, there are also retired workers of the MUP and the Serbian Army, still aged from the JNA, and it is clear that it is a huge number of people. In addition, every year 300 new people enter Serbia's Army, and those who retire have the right to apply for the apartment. The same goes for the M.O.P. This means that the right to a cheap apartment at one point has about 65,000 people, perhaps even counting slightly less depending on whether in the MUP of those 42,000 everyone works indefinitely. This proposal plans to build 1,700 apartments at stages, and at this rate it will take over 20 years to solve all this. Also, what we see here as a danger is that social settlements are made, namely, collective housing for people of a profession, and it's not good because of the socialization of children, the lives of people with the same habits. These people will live surrounded by each other, all the same under one mold, the same social map. What exists, which is a danger here, is that they are created so-called. Gota. The location where it will be built is out of town, out of civilization, out of urban parts. Army members are justifiably afraid that this way they will make second-class citizens, people who are not worthy of living with people, other people outside the profession. For example, this is New Belgrade, where all structures lived, including military faces. The military has a understandable fear that they will live in the edges of the city, which will further isolate them. What does not exist in the law is that veterans are not involved in the sense of those who fought as reservers, but only persons who were engaged as professional persons in the war. We see here that only wartime military people who were wounded as active are involved, and what this law should have provided is special programmes for veterans, or that they too are on lists to be formed, so why not, that they have an advantage. They deserve all benefits and benefits from active, as well as children of dead members. What's not good is that the sublegal act will regulate the ranking list. It will be very difficult to define who has the advantage over who, whether active members or pensioners, because only in Belgrade works about 7,000 members of the Army and at least 5,000 from the interior ministry. It is a huge number of apartments and a huge number of demands, so members of the Serbian Army and the interior ministry rightly fear there will be a large number of malfeasances. Also, members of the military believe the obligation to be in a working relationship 10 years from the date of signing the contract is not good. It's forcing the rest of the system and members believe it's an optimal five-year term. The military members I've been talking to think they've been in the system for 10 years, if they've been educated for four years and worked more than five, it's been about 10 years in the system and they believe it's enough to pay back their debt to the state. The law has also not defined whether the minister will also have the right to buy an apartment, as a person currently performing the post. He is also, to remind, a civil servant and is not a member of the defence system, nor his secretaries, nor his assistants. Today, for example, in this ministry, he can be at another firm tomorrow. How long does he have to work after that in the system? 10 years too, or is it another deadline? I'd like to finish my presentation by the words of the military that I've been saying to me that they're not second-class citizens who need to live in isolation, who should dress up through an administrative ban across certain shops. They stress that all they need are the wages of a decent man, to buy their own apartments and dress wherever they want, not to be social cases. Most members of the military have high schools and colleges, and work and rarely support their entire families with less than 500 euros per month. They also don't want their children to know only children whose parents are also in the system. Such children will again become role models of people and systems and then choose to be in the system when the time comes. The state then receives young people who follow their parents and role models from the environment, and the environment is uniform. This is much more dangerous than the unresolved housing issue, as the members of the Republika Srpska Army told me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35736	The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35737	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have 14 members of the Army today without a settled housing issue, 20,000 members of the police have no settled housing issue in our country and about 1,500 members of the Security and Information Agency. That's the result that we had and that left us with the previous regime, those are really numbers that we have to ask ourselves about. Only President Aleksandar Vucic initiated a good project to build apartments for members of security forces, unfortunately, we couldn't have done it before as a state, for the legacy of the previous regime left us with debts, a large amount of public debt, unregulated public finances, we had to deal with fiscal consolidation measures, and only now, when the state was healed, when the state was healthy, only now created conditions for entering a large and ambitious project of state housing, in order to resolve the housing issue of members of the interior ministry, members of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, the Security-Informative Agency, but also the Ministry of Justice, that is, the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions. The material that we received from the Deputy Prime Minister is indeed an ambitious project, it will build apartments at six locations, select these locations, in the first phase a total of 1.578 apartments will be built, the investor is well-known, the investor is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With this law, this lex specialise we're discussing today, it will indeed be precise to the precise rights and obligations of investors for each of the individual locations. As I said before, six locations have been secured so far. First of all, locations have been prepared in Vranja and Kraljev, as well as Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. The construction of 400 apartments is planned in Belgrade. My previous colleague said we wanted to put troops in some ghetto. I want to say, as a Belgrade girl, that this is the township of Palilu, so it's not about any ghetto in Belgrade, it's about the town municipality of Palilu, the Ovca Bani, it's about to be built 400 apartments. After the establishment of the city assembly, the missing planning documents will be adopted. This project will improve the development of our entire work, our entire capital. I remind you that after World War II, the city of Belgrade started a residential building in locations that were swamps for building apartments for our police officers and soldiers, and now they are the most exclusive parts of Belgrade, such as New Belgrade, Stari Kosutnjak and other locations for the apartments of our soldiers and police officers. Our idea, or the idea of the SNS, that we really care about improving the material position of all our citizens, and above all I mean improving the material position of security forces, our soldiers, our officers, our prison guards. It's all those people, I'll remind you, they're really doing one of the hardest jobs, taking care of our security, our safety and the safety of our children, the safety of our property. They really do have low incomes and their incomes are really followed by the growth and development of our country. These are real receipts that we can afford as a state. They have an unresolved housing issue, and some of them are indeed members of a young generation who want to expand their family, who want to build their family. It is indeed a great deal for them to resolve the issue of living. The state wants to stimulate the construction of cheap apartments at a favourable price that will not exceed 500 euros per metre square, plus value added tax costs and the bill is simple. The bill says this, that for an apartment of 60m square meters, the average cost of 500 euros per square cent with a 30-year loan, the monthly war would be about 126 euros. You have really taken good care of every detail of this truly capital project, the significant project is also a project of housing for security services, i.e. a model apartment. Yesterday you had the opportunity to hang all the MPs, and I am asking you to really hang the media and all the interested citizens so that everyone can see what these new apartments will look like for security forces. These apartments will be according to the highest energy efficiency standards, these apartments will be built from domestic material, our domestic building infrastructure will be employed. It's really a benefit from the adoption of this law, a lex specialist, and it's multiple. We can say that the benefits of adopting this law, its implementation in practice, will benefit the units of local self-government and the state of Serbia, we will collect property tax. I come from Rakovica and I can say that we have a need for both members of the Army and members of our police to apply for this contest and that they will want to come to a roof solution on favourable terms. The government commission chaired by the prime minister, made by Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and many other ministers, has indeed done a great job. It's a recipe for success. A recipe for success so that we can realise great and significant projects. At the very end I want to say this, I come from the township of Rakovica and the township of Rakovica was known for its wild construction during the previous period. What it's like to be built without a building permit, without the planning documents, what it's like to be built on every corner. The government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed simplified procedures, and they are finally clear and transparent procedures for obtaining electronic building permits. I had the opportunity to, together with your State Secretary, Ms. Aleksandra Damjanovic, attend the opening of the Kapitol Park in the town of Rakovica Municipality, Poseidon Group has invested in my municipality, in the town municipality of Rakovica 30m euros, more than 450 jobs have been opened in the town municipality of Rakovica, which is a really great result. It's also an example of how you don't blackmail investors who come into our country. We are the country that is now the first in terms of Southeast Europe, the first in direct foreign investment. It wouldn't be if we didn't invest in our roads, in our tracks, but not to make it impossible for us to get construction permits and investment in our economy. In voting day, at the very end, I call on all my fellow MPs, and I am sure that will do so by my colleagues from the SNS to support these good legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35738	Thank you. We'd be done with this morning's work. Now I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 3:00 and 5 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I understand the project of building apartments for members of security forces as the highest act of the state's concern for people, and that of people whose task is to protect the safety of all of us, but with the protection of security, they protect our pride and dignity. Pride and dignity is the place where I would like to continue all that my fellow MPs from this parliamentary group have said so far about this bill. Those who spend their whole lives committed to the protection of the people and the state, in addition to the courage and patriotism, must also have conditions, decent conditions, social and material security, and that is as important to them personally, as much for the whole country. Instigated by this question, one of his friends who spent his entire working life in security structures, I asked the question – what is the priority, what is the most important thing, what is the basic task of the security service? Is it the protection of the state and the people or the protection of the president of state and government, counting on the constitutional authority of the president of the state to represent the state and state policy? I got a very short, but very reasonable answer, depending on who's head of the security service. If he's head of the security department of Carla Del Ponte or Madlen Albright, then he'll certainly be protected by the president who conducts such a policy, who represents such a state. Of course, I immediately remembered and thought about whether all the presidents of the state are aware of what they do for the state and the people? I also remembered the famous sentences of former Serbian President Boris Tadic, who says -- I am ready to take on myself more responsibility than the Constitution allows. Imagine that kind of sacrifice, Mr. Tadic, and the victim of a Atlas that holds the sky so as not to fall on Serbia. The results of this policy and this kind of thinking were very quickly learned and it did not last a month, when the UN mission was removed and before the Russian veto the Eulex mission was brought in. He should not have been a member of any security structure, as EULEX clearly said before and before that signature that the main intentions were to establish a Kosovo state. All this was done without the Assembly, without a referendum, without constitutional authority. An act of treason of the country has been opened. At the time, we didn't have any security structures to prevent anything like this. We didn't have or had security structures that protected political cartoons, worthy of the greatest contempt. They were despised by even those who gave them orders and who literally had political command over them, because no one respects colporteurs' orders that you can of course order whatever you want. Today we listen to various discussions, listen to pointless agenda proposals, parliamentary issues that always talk about how the SNS came to power, talk about how long it will be in power and how soon it will go into political history. The results are mentioned, conditions of choice, predominance in the media, etc. That's what we're in the general discussion of witnessing almost daily. I can't believe the representatives of the opposition, especially the former regime, are so blind in their eyes. In 2012, the SNS won the election because it offered something or because it promised something. It doesn't win today because it has strong political propaganda and because it convinces the people. The feeling of humiliation has won in the people. He who has little cheeks, when he feels this amount of humiliation that we were exposed to, feeling and shame, the moment the people began to be ashamed of the authority he had, then he sought other political solutions. This is why today those who restore the dignity of the people regain the sense of pride. The president standing upright in Brussels, Washington, Paris, London, especially in Berlin, Tokyo and Moscow, which hurts a lot, a government that brings heavy measures, but measures of hope and the future, a policy that thinks about people like these today, can only be replaced by someone who comes better, smarter, more educated, more prepared, and these are not those who represent Serbia's opposition today. If they had a little courage, they'd at least one old man do what the opposition does all over the world, in all the world's parliaments, ask for extraordinary elections. This is the only opposition that runs away from the election. It's just amazing, so much for courage. And if they had few feelings of shame, they wouldn't sit in this room for one second, from 0.5 to 2%, it would be enough to tell themselves that they don't belong here. How are they going to change Serbia? What better way to get Serbia? How will Serbia get better those who are not voted by the wider family, left and right neighbours? How much has been accumulated in 12 years and there would have been 4% of you at least to vote. Of course, that's gone too. A feeling of shame and a sense of cheek, when it comes back to political actors who think they're worth something, maybe they'll do something. They're talking about the media space, which, of course, according to them, the SNS brings great election results, and of course they don't have that much space and they can't present their policy. That's exactly the problem. The problem is that those who vote very well know these others and for nothing are the attempts of the old DS, the new DS, some Social Democratic parties. The new ones are all old, and with the old ones no one new. It's fate, the bitter fate of their political collapse. That's why, it's an honor to have you care about people. It's SNS policy, it's this government's policy, it's this president's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35741	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. He's not here. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35742	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, the ideas and initiatives of President Aleksandr Vukic on resolving housing problems for members of the security forces today have all the elements for its implementation. The first and most important situation in the budget. In the first quarter of this year, we have the highest recorded quarterly GDP growth in the last ten years, at 4.5%. That gave us the foundation to get into a project like this. We have six cities already in the process thanks to more effective government and your ministry measures and are realistically urban and location plans in Nis, Vranja, Kragujevac, Kralje, Belgrade, Novi Sad. Reality is also a bill that defines all of this. In a way, the state acts in this law and acts in a market way. Why? There are members of the Army who, in that part of the dedicated industry, are significantly raising our economy, our growth. The military when it protects the country and security is very important for investment in that country, but the dedicated industry is recording exceptional growth and we people who are being educated and the great value of investing in the education of these people are in some way obliged to stay there, work and contribute to the new growth of our country and our future. The reality is also completed, for example, the finished share of LJig – Preljina, 40.4 kilometers, the reality is 66 bridges and four large tunnels on that section. Reality is a signed commercial contract for Preljina – Požega. And it's a very interesting way for someone to deprive all these big projects. Well, let's say where I come from, the Goldibor County, the relation. the share and the announcement of the construction of Preljin – Požega is thought out by it – and where it will go further. Fortunately, there are those, many more, those who even say, let them reach Požega, he must not go any further. And there's so much more to it, fortunately, than those who want to dissipate that stock. We have the beginning of reconstruction of the railway Belgrade – Bar and us in Priboj in Prijepolje, the Raskopolim area we look forward to it, and the reality is completed the reconstructed share of 77.6 kilometers of Resnik – Valjevo, 287 kilometers of the Belgrade railway – Bar, those without the territory of Montenegro. And yet, the way someone wants to make it all up, somewhere reminds even of those arguments that were made in 1881 when the first railways were built, so they say -- it's no good, it's a black snake sent by someone from Europe to steal Serbia. And there were more disastrous arguments. From today's perspective you can see how that sounds, but it is sad that some of the counterarguments of the reconstruction of the Belgrade railway – Bar, the first after 40 years, have not strayed from such criticism. When the arguments run out, then they go directly to the family of Alexander Wolfich, then they go personally. When the arguments disappear, they go personally and insult you. When arguments disappear about how bad it is in Belgrade, and all economic indicators show how much better it is, then some of them only make up a funny joke at the expense of Sinisha Mali's last name. So that's all they have left and that's all they do. Yesterday, one of the MPs said we were buying pâtés with pâtés. It's her opinion of our people. Yesterday, one MP, more specifically, Boris Tadic, defamed himself quite so in the assembly, just forgot to state his president's position. Boris Tadic said at one point – what do we need an army for? I expected him to say - take away the military faces from this proposal, and that would probably cost them cheaper. Oh, one of them was an analysis of the quality of the roads, so I guess he was walking the highway. So he plays the role of controlling everything the state has built. And I'm really scared when these apartments are built that they're going to break into people's apartments to find out if there's been any leaks, so it's going to be brought out here in the Assembly. So we have a policy of progress on the one hand, a policy of devising everything that's right on the other hand, but we have a people who think about it in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35743	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Vice-President of the Government with my associates, I will refer to the proposal for a law on the registration procedure of the Immobility Catastra, that is, the reform of the Katras. This catastra reform refers to the entry of property rights. He said yesterday, an opposition colleague that we don't know what citizens' problems are, and that's actually a colleague who doesn't even see what time is out of his car with darkened glass. We from the SNS are constantly in contact with citizens, through delegated representatives in all institutions, which directly. Communication between us and citizens is the basis for a large number of problems that have been addressed and will be dealt with in the future. Hence, the Ministry's initiative to refer to the procedure a bill that saves citizens both time and money. Right now, anyone who buys real estate has to verify a contract with a public notebook, it makes up a public record. In order to do so, the customer must first obtain a copy of the catastra and take it to the public notebook. After having been certified by the public register, the buyer carries the contract to the RGZ for registration, and afterwards in the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia to determine the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, and then registers the property tax to the local tax administration. So he has to go to minimum five counters -- the RGZ, the public notary, again the RGZ, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia, the local tax administration. The reform achieves that a public register, instead of a real estate buyer, makes an insight into the immovableity cadastar, then confirms the purchase contract, and then digitises the contract, authenticates it by electronic signature, and sends the cataster by electronic means by official duty. That's how the enrollment is performed. Then, when he received a contract from a public register, he passed it on to the official duty of the tax administration and the local tax administration. So, from the five walks around the counters, we bring walking to the citizens a single counter of a public notebook. It is also proposed that when sending the contract, the public notary also send a united tax application to the cataster on the basis of which the cadastre can make a mass assessment of the value of the immovable property. This would simplify one job of the tax administration and automise it through the cadastre. As for railway stations, the Ministry of Infrastructure will reconstruct the Bora railway station facility this year. The railway station facility will be decorated and modernised according to European standards, and it is very looking forward to the citizens of Bora. In addition, next year, the ministry will reconstruct the railway. When we talk about citizens in Bor, it is certainly my duty to point out that they are very important to pave the way for a section of the Village-Bore road, about 14 kilometers. I know it's planned, and we're hoping it will work with the realization of that asphalting this year. I thank you for your attention, and I want the best in my work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35745	National MP Branka Stamenkovic is not here. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35746	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister with Associates, is before us today, among other things, and the laws governing four types of traffic – road, rail, water and air traffic. The importance of these laws that we need to adopt, I hope, next week is, above all, seen as one of the three priorities of the government set up in this year's economic development, and that there is no economic development unless there is a well-developed transport infrastructure that will connect Serbia and its neighbours, which will also connect different parts of Serbia, north with the south, east with the West and the like. Much has been done since 2012 on the construction of roads in Serbia, not to mention, since my previous colleagues have been doing this on several occasions, but I am looking forward to revitalising the railway lines in Serbia, especially the construction of a fast track in Belgrade-Budapest, which will bring us closer to developed countries, and it is known that in developed countries railway transport is both faster and cheaper, but also safer than driving by car by road. As for Kickinda, from which I come, the first railway was released in traffic back in 1857 and the 13th track was built in Europe. It was part of the Vienna-Budapest-Bazyash railway line, and Kikinda had a direct railway connection to Paris, London and Brussels. Back then, major trains, such as Ostende, Orient Express and others, were passing through Kikind. Today, as the 1990s devastated large factories that existed in Kikinda and then with bad privatisations, the same procedure failed and the railways in Kikinda, so today, unfortunately, we only have three lines that are more symbolic, which are: according to Subotica, according to Panchev and Temisvar. I am very pleased that the Minister mentioned yesterday's presentation that there is a project to revitalise the Kikinda-Subotica-Kikinda railway, which I hope will mean a lot to us at the most recent time, not only because we have passengers to go on the route, as well as which will connect Banat and Bačka, but also because a lot of our major businessmen are using this railway transport right now. If we take just an example of “Zopas, ” which is an Italian company that has moved its plant to Kikind, they have about 500 cars crossing the track on an annual basis. This reconstruction of the railroad will also help us because “Metanol ” uses the railway line. Due to the poor condition, the wagons are going to Subotica with 60% fill-up, and behind "Metanola" was the entire government and then Prime Minister, present-day President Aleksandar Vukic. Minister Mihajlovic and the ministry she stands on have helped Kikinda solve the decades-long problem of reconstruction of the Kikinda-Basaid road, which has been abandoned for decades, and in the period from 2015 to 2017 it was completely completed. It was completed phasely, and as far as I have the information, and precisely by the personal pawning of Minister Mihajlovic this share is completed as planned and planned. That's why I'm talking to her as a friend of Kickinda, who's helped us a few times, and I'm talking to her about the next problems. In 2014, the Nakovo-Lung border crossing opened, which greatly justified its existence because of the number of crossings, so because of the faster connection between the Serbs from Romania with the Queen and the surrounding queen, and because of the increased number of Romanians coming to Kikinda, it also increased traffic in shops in Kikinda that are closer to the border. However, the crossing today, regardless of its opening in 2014, works from 7-19 hours and is intended only for vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes. Aleksandar Vukic agreed with his Romanian counterpart during his stay in Temisvar in November 2016 that the crossing works 24 hours. However, because of the change in government in Romania, the implementation of the agreement has not occurred today. The city of Kikinda with major businessmen, primarily with "Metanol" and "Zopas", has submitted a request to all relevant authorities in Serbia, but also to Romania to request that the border crossing work be extended to 24 hours and that it be retegorised for both freight and bus traffic. What do we get by that? Exporters from kickinda would have faster and cheaper transport of goods to the EU market. To Temisovar, the road would be 20 kilometers shorter, to Arada 65 kilometers, to Omakova 40 kilometers, and only in one direction. If we take the example of “Zopas” where about 530 trucks cross the border with Montenegro, which is a little further from Nakov-Lung, savings per one truck would be 40 kilometers only in time, which means that it is 20,000 kilometers a year. When it turns into money, it's not a meaningless amount. Also, expanding working time and retegorising this time would lead to a much better working force flow, which also corresponds to Serbian and Romanian employers, as Western Romania is well known for lack of labour. Also, this would allow other investors from western Romania to come to Kikinud and thus solve the permanent problem of unemployment both in Kikinda and in the North-Branat County. What is further is necessary for all of us at the local, republican and regional level to do is to provide money, meaning, about half a million euros, to carry out works at the border crossing, to train the crossing for the transport of freight vehicles, but also to talk again to the authorities in Romania to allow the crossing to work 24 hours, i.e. only to respect what has been agreed so far. Once again, I appeal to help the city of Kikindi, as reducing the transport costs of large businesses will contribute to the increase of external trade in goods, and this will certainly benefit the economic development of both the city and the northern district and Serbia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35747	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. He's not here. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35748	Thank you. The esteemed representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, are presently sitting in front of us with a package of 13 draft laws and seven confirmations of international agreements, mainly from the domain of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. The bill which has specifically raised public attention, which I will draw your attention to in these few minutes is the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. Therefore, this law also confirms and implements the programme objectives outlined by the SNS led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. The programme objectives of overall progress and the development of the Republic of Serbia and the better life of each citizen. With this bill in special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, we allow members of our security forces to solve one of the basic problems of life under favourable conditions, which is the issue of resolving the housing issue. In the past, the results of the work of the security forces are quite evident and the state of Serbia is obliged to allow our officers, soldiers, to live decent lives. And resolving the housing issue is certainly crucial in this story for them. As noted in the first phase of this major national project, a national investment of about 64m euros is planned to be made in cheap housing for 1578 apartments, 400 in Belgrade, 400 in Novi Sad, 188 in Nis, 190 in Vranje, 200 in Kragujevac and 200 in Kragujevac. This is only the first phase, and I know from the experience that we will not stop at this and that we will restore the residential fund of the Republic of Serbia, and that we will enable the members of our security forces to live decently. This is by far the most serious state project of housing. He before us, or those before us, remained remembered by promises, but also by affairs, by satellites, pastures, vineyards, etc. They used us to melt tanks in Smederev, and today we create conditions to build apartments for security forces. Of course, we will continue to move forward, continue to build the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vucic know what they want and will achieve it, which is better and more advanced Serbia. That is why in the day of voting for this bill, I will make it possible for members of the security forces to live better, and thus also citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35749	The word is made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35750	Thank you, Your Honor. I think you have violated Article 107, which is the dignity of the National Assembly and anyone who understands and in the Army knows that tanks are made of alloy steel, and that in Sartide carbon steel is melted, so it is simply impossible to melt tanks in the Sartide, as the previous speaker said. You've been obliged, for the sake of the citizens, for deception, to warn the previous pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35751	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure, because it is evident that while the minister was Mr. Sutanovac that 500 tanks were missing from the Army of Serbia. Where they're soaked, it doesn't matter at all. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Bogdanovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35752	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, today we have a new, modern system law governing the railway area – the Law on Railways, the Law on Safety in Railway Traffic and the Law on Interoperability of the Railway System in line with EU regulations, but also adapted to our terms. For every commendation, the promoter did not strictly copy European provisions, but it can be seen through each member that it is also calculated how to improve rail traffic, then make it more efficient, safer and achieve a competitive market for transport services in the Republic of Serbia. For each commendation are the activities carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry in the previous period as part of a comprehensive railway reform. Things in this portfolio are set exactly as necessary for the ultimate goal to be achieved and this is efficient and safer rail traffic. The funds were provided and the reconstruction and construction of over 200km of railway network completed. During this year, the work is under way, which prepares the start-up activities for about 230 kilometers of railways and the funds invested and which are being invested are being measured by billions. That's why I want to say that it's not post-poo, without order for political points and what the opposition represents to us, it's kept in mind, but it's made up a clear plan that the ministry is implementing and that follows and goes forward. The results of this are visible and no one can disprove official data showing that goods and passengers on our rail tracks are growing more and more and that our railways are taking an increasingly strong position on European rail corridors. It is little known in the general public that the Republic of Serbia as the only non-EU member, has become an equal part of the newly formed Alpine-Western Balkan corridor. For this, very strict rules and conditions that the network must meet in order to become an equal part of the new European corridors and the Republic of Serbia is the only one who is not an EU member. The draft law on railways has also implemented further harmonisation with the EU and with the regulations relevant to this area, and to achieve the key objective of opening and harmonising the rail market. What I would also point out and point out is, in particular, a criminal offence against infrastructure is prescribed in order to combat part of the damage, destruction, removal and confiscation of parts of the railway infrastructure regardless of the quantity and value. What would this specifically mean? This means that in practice we have had very often a situation treated as petty theft, for example. The theft of one kilo of copper wire, road crossings, the contact network, which remain out of operation, and the perpetrator, after a minimum sentence, repeats the same act. It's not petty theft. It's an act that can cause enormous consequences for the safety of passengers and goods. When we talk about the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, the main objective of adopting this law is to improve the level of safety of rail traffic in the Republic of Serbia. In the area of security, it was particularly necessary to introduce new provisions in line with European legislation. The papers are in particular parts relating to the responsibility of the employer, the establishment of a system of supervision of machinery engineers, the procedures for monitoring certification of motorists operating vehicles under the railway system, the conditions of work of mobile workers in cross-border traffic, and the part of a clear definition of the conditions which can carry out the training of engineers and criteria for the recognition of training centres involved in the training of engineers and criteria for the organisation of exams, etc. In addition to this law, additional powers have been given to the Railway Directorate as a national body for the adoption of regulations of importance for railway safety as well as the issue and supervision of appropriate certificates. So all the newspapers were introduced with one clear goal, improving safety in rail traffic and referring to all the participants in it. Interoperability which receives a special location, primarily the ability of the railway system to enable safe and smooth movement of trains that create performance requirements, i.e. enable trains to move uninterrupted across Europe, without being kept at borders due to replacement of locomotives and train staff. We could do a lot more about this, but because of the weather, I would say only in the end, the promoter has made three brand new laws that will systematically contribute to safer and more effective developments and the development of rail traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35753	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35754	I thank the chairman. In today's presentation, I will talk about the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the Security Service and the proposal for a law on registration in the Immobility and Waters Catalogue. I'll try not to repeat everything my colleagues have already said. We have good and quality legal solutions ahead of us, and in the day of voting I will support them, and I call on all MPs to do so. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces is a law that should have been passed long ago. The law creates opportunities for these apartments to be built under more favourable conditions, and this is a good example where co-operation between the ministry and local self-government is achieved. As I understand the opposition, they only have one grudge, which is that they don't match their locations. Unfortunately, locations in the city centre have long been occupied, representing them as pastures. When we talk about the Law on the registration procedure of the Immobility and Waters Department, all I have to say is commendation. We're tired of walking from the counter to the counter, where we're wasting valuable time. This law creates basic preconditions for the introduction of electronic administrations into the immovableity cadasar. A simplified procedure for enrolment procedure in the immovableity cadasar has been simplified. By going to the public register and signing the contract, the party ended up making a tour of the counter. It is the public register's duty to register real estate in the immovableity catalogue and to notify the Tax Administration which will further resolve the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, as well as the local tax administration, which will determine the corresponding taxes. Because of the rational use of time, I will not talk about the other laws that are on the agenda today, but I must note that these are good laws and amendments and additions to the law that harmonizes our legislation with European legislation. That the Department of Construction is doing well, like the whole government, we don't have to talk here in the Assembly, it's enough to go from one end to the other end of our beautiful country and we'll see that there are construction sites everywhere. I'm proud to see Corridor 10. I had a chance with the Space Planning Committee to tour the entire construction site last year. What I saw there was a magnificent building where the works slowly end. Only evil languages can speak negatively of what has been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35755	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35756	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, we have a proposal on the agenda for a set of laws and agreements on which we are having a conversation, and I will talk about the draft law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and water catalogue. We are free to say that the reform of the catastra is a continuation of the reform of the decade, in addition to the introduction of e-government and e-government, all in order to enable citizens, businesses, domestic and foreign investors to enter their rights quickly. It is security for domestic and foreign investors to invest in production capacities to create new jobs and hire young, educated workers. This is also the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Alexander Vukic and SNS, which has shown citizens in several other cities in Belgrade in recent local elections, giving great support to both SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic. The adoption of this law will allow for increasing the efficiency and up-to-date of the immovableity cadasar. By introducing new information technologies, prescribing obligations for courts, public notaries, public enforcement bodies, bodies of public administrations and other bodies and organisations which, under their law established in jurisdiction, make decisions, or establish or confirm documents representing the legal basis for enrolment in the cadastre and that the same delivery of the immovable cadastre services is to be carried out in order to make changes to the cataster. Simplify and speed up the registration procedure in the immovableity catalogue, prescribe shorter deadlines for the application of the registration procedure, prescribe rules that the service does not verify the legality of a public-book document on the basis of which the enrolment is made. In this way, the registration procedure will be accelerated, or the time required for enrolment will be shortened. The update of the immovableity cadasar is increasing, which will have a positive effect on improving the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's balance sheet on business conditions. The bill stipulates that citizens and businesses will not have to tour several counters. There was a lot of going around institutions to get citizens and businesses into real estate in the real estate catastrophe. In the future, it will all be done in one place, at the notary. By drawing up and confirming, by certifying public-booking documents, the notary will, on behalf of the citizens, file the necessary documentation for enrolment within 24 hours, and within five days, the service will bring a solution to the entry into the immobility cadastre. The paper in this law – the premise of the building and the specific parts of the buildings in the building, which are not included in the list of immovableities, but in the special list – is a premise of the building, i.e. the specific parts of the building in the building. Also, the proposal for this law stipulates that public notebooks, entrepreneurs and legal entities entered in the register of geodetic organisations may issue a list of immovableities, credits, a list of the object’s premises, i.e. specific parts of the building, which have the same importance as those issued by the Republic of Geodetic Institute. The Republic Geodetic Institute as a state body is working on the performance of professional, geodetic, cadastrian affairs, on geodetic measurement, data collection and entry into the Immobility and Water Catastre, which are of general interest to the Republic of Serbia, as well as a series of established new competences, which have been entrusted to it since 2002 until today. All entrusted tasks of the Republic Geodetic Institute, together with its internal organisational units, immovableity cadastre services, have been successfully carried out, which will also be done in the coming period, much faster and more effectively. There is a competition on the reception of 567 geodetic and legal experts who will staff up the services, in order to successfully carry out all the tasks of the Republic Geodetic Institute and all in the interests of citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35757	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35758	The Deputy Prime Minister, with co-workers from the Ministry, we are today discussing 20 very important laws, which for me, and I believe the citizens of Serbia also see that the Ministry of Transport you run with your team has shown great work on the ground, and that your associates and institutions that have been under the direction of the Ministry of Transport have seen the need for amendments and additions to traffic laws, that these laws on the agenda of our session are because there is a need for alignment with the European Union, with the UN Convention, and I would particularly highlight the importance of laws that will affect the reduction of the grey economy. Because returning 100m euros to legal flows, by passing one law, is certainly something very important for our further business activity and the increase of gross social product. Of course, amongst this set of laws, the most important law for building apartments for members of security and it is incorrect and malicious, even I would say politically incorrect, noting that the housing law did not define criteria for these apartments to be built and based on which soldiers and members of the security service would report for their purchase. Absolutely, whoever reads the law can see that all criteria are very clearly defined. But that's when you have nothing else to say and you don't have any clear and accurate remarks, then you allow yourself to make false statements. I'd like to say a few main items for each of these laws. The draft law on special conditions for the realisation of the housing project for security forces determines all conditions for future purchasers of apartments and for members of the security service with a price of 500 euros per square metre and with the fact that 64,355m euros have been allocated to the construction of the first 1,578 apartments in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kralje, Vranja and Kragujevac. The draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is significant from a point of view which increases speed from 120 to 130 km per hour, which is practice throughout Europe and in the region and introduces new and stricter penalties for offenders of this law, such as the obligation of fines for violent driving. The draft law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and water catalogue is important because it is a newspaper that citizens and businesses will not have to go around several counters and institutions to enroll property in a cadastre, but all of this will be done in one place, with notaries. Notari will have statements from the real estate cadasar, they will conclude contracts, instead of citizens will forward cadastra assets to enrolment, as well as the municipal administration and the tax administration. The Road Law – property is arranged over public roads and their records in public books, which is important for the smooth implementation of maintenance and rehabilitation works. It will also be specified who exactly is in charge of maintaining which roads in Serbia, Vojvodina and, of course, untegorised roads. It will also contribute to greater traffic security, including a special procedure for tunnels for more than 500 metres. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on transporting freight in road transport is important because of compliance with the Law on inspection supervision, which will contribute to a more efficient fight against the gray economy and protect carriers that are legally operating, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim of this law is to return half of the revenues that are now in the gray zone, estimated at 100m euros, to legal flows and thus increase budget revenues. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on transporting passengers in road transport regulates the issue of certificates of professional training, as well as the conditions for changing driving schedules, higher penalties for offenders and clear powers of inspection for the control of foreign carriers. It's a draft law on railways. The important news of this law is that future damage and theft of railway infrastructure that poses a risk to traffic safety will be sanctioned as a criminal offence, and of course it is important that this law is further aligned with European legislation, in particular with respect to the functioning of the rail market. The proposal for a safety law in rail transport aims to further increase the safety of rail traffic, reduce the number of accidents and increase competitiveness. A regular check of the professional training of railway workers will be carried out for two years instead of four, as it has been so far, and it is more precisely arranged to train railway workers. The proposal for a law on interoperability of the railway system is important because of the introduction of interoperability, which allows trains from Serbia and through Serbia to move uninterrupted across Europe without being kept at borders due to replacement of locomotives and train staff. It is also important to reduce vehicle retention at border crossings and to increase the competitiveness of rail traffic, especially in the part of freight transport. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters provides for a six-year period for all illegal gravel, which has 150, to be moved to official port areas on the Sava, Danube and Tisi. The expected effects of this law are that revenues based on port taxis and port fees for the load of gravel and sand are about 2.2m euros annually. The costs of shipping companies are also reduced and are aligned with European Union directives. The proposal for a law on the central record of real owners is important because it introduces the central records of real owners of legal persons in Serbia, as the real owner, all natural persons who in any way have 25% or more ownership in a company and who truly have a prevailing influence on business management or who provide money for the company's business. The draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Intermediation and Immobilisation Act is important because its amendments imposes an obligation on the founders of the owners and those who run the rental and real estate operations not to be convicted, including for bribery, fraud, acts of terrorism and organised crime, as well as money laundering and financing of terrorist acts. The draft law supplementing the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism imposes sanctions on the spread of weapons of mass destruction, and sanctions under this law do not apply only to individuals, but also to members of families of persons involved in the financing of terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction. I believe that all of this has been said more or less in the debate by you as ministers, but also by colleagues who see the need to support the proposals of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35759	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35760	I will speak for a few minutes about the proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. At the very beginning, I must stress the fact that we all know, in the previous period, we faced an extremely difficult situation in many segments of society that we came to thanks to the then government, which was mirrored through unregulated public finances and high public debt, and this required urgent fiscal consolidation measures. That is why the project to build apartments for security forces could not have been realised earlier, because significant state participation is therefore needed. However, conditions have now been created for entering a major state-owned housing project. During the previous government, members of the security forces, and most of all the Army of Serbia was destroyed and totally demoralized, professional soldiers with money they earned could not feed on their own and create families and the purchase of the apartment and the resolution of the housing issue was a mental noun. Without any exaggeration, I can freely say that thanks above all to the President of the State, Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who are aware of the importance of security forces and at all institutions such as the Serbian Army, have placed everything in place and raised them to their feet, but of course it does not match those who were previously in power. I will give myself the right to, as an MP who has a lot of life experience and someone who has been going through and over many difficult situations, move a little from professional terminology and rigidly keeping members and points of the law and say observation and seeing certain things. There is a mental set or profile of people that all someone tries to do in the best interests of individuals or citizens of their city, county or state already in the beginning condemns and finds a thousand objections, of course, without adequate arguments. It is only important to raise media dust, to comment on why this or that law is passed and that something that is positive throughout the world and compliance with world and European standards is only bad for us. To allow other colleagues to speak, I'll be brief. By passing this law, we create a basis to improve the standard of living for the citizens of Serbia, primarily soldiers, police officers, members of the BIA, people who do hard work for our country, a job that makes us all feel safe, and who have modest incomes, which are difficult to afford, especially if they are young and if they are building their families, solving the housing problem in the long term. As I said before, their salaries were not large enough to solve housing issues on their own, but they will increase and there is no doubt about this project and we want to give them a better and different life, a safer tomorrow and an opportunity to plan their families and count on a better future. The Serbian Progressive Party believes it is necessary to adopt the bill because it provides legal assumptions for its timely application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35761	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. He's not here. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35762	Dear Chairman, Minister Mihajlovic and his associates, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, today we are particularly pleased to discuss, among other things, the proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. Why is that a special pleasure? Because it's about citizens who do very difficult work, responsible and demanding, for which we believe we are all very grateful and who deserve to have special conditions when it comes to resolving their housing issue. The issue of security is a basic prerequisite and a necessary condition for every economic, political and social progress of our society. Since a large number of families of security forces have not solved the housing issue, this problem is one of the basic issues that we as a responsible society must address. I welcome the government's efforts to address this issue in a systematic and permanent manner. There's not a lot of options. People do not have a roof over their heads and it is necessary to give them an opportunity to solve it in an accessible way. The adoption of a special law in the best and most effective way would have led to this problem. Over 20,000 security forces, active or retired, have shown interest in buying an apartment within the project. By building cheap apartments in different cities of the Republic of Serbia for security forces, we will allow a decent and decent life for those who often put their lives at stake because of the state and all its citizens. Thanks to local self-government and government efforts, we will be able to provide a large number of housing units to the most vulnerable members of security forces. They will all be able to compete, get an apartment, according to their needs. In this way, a positive effect will be achieved by domestic construction, as well as local self-government, which will in future collect taxes from newly built housing facilities. With a price of up to 500 euros per square metre, I think the effect that the legislator wanted is achieved, which is indeed an affordable and realistic possible purchase by interested security forces. The former regime was not sacred nor the existence of security forces, not even apartments for them and their family members. The state of Serbia once again shows by this law that it is committed to the well-being of its citizens and is ready to correct decades of injustice and social anomalies. That is why I hope all MPs of the Serbian Parliament will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35763	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. He's not here. The word has been given by MP Firenjan Pantovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35764	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the adoption of the Law on Roads in the original framework of 2005 and the changes that followed there have been significant changes in the infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. Since there has been a lot of work in the last four years and work to build infrastructure today, it is necessary to pass a new law that will suit the new situation. And what has been done in recent years? The shares of LJig-Preljina and Lajkovac-Ub in Corridor 11, are currently working on shares of Surcin-Obrenovac, Obrenovac-Ub, Lajkovac-LJig on the eastern arms of Corridor 10 south towards Presevo, bypasses around Belgrade, as well as many road rehabilitation projects. Here, on the LJig-Preljena section, you see exactly what is one of the main objectives of this law, which is to improve traffic safety. The release into operation of this section reduced traffic intensity at the part of the Ibar highway which, unfortunately, was known for numerous traffic accidents. With this proposal, the section relating to traffic safety is transferred to this law, given the elements of the road that affect traffic safety. This law lays down provisions on auditors to carry out audits and road safety checks. Also, this legislative proposal will allow the problem of property to be resolved. Unsettled property and public road records in public books is one of the basic problems we have encountered so far. There are currently almost every road section on the plots that are in the possession of natural or legal persons or users in the immobilities lists are listed as legal persons who are not entrusted with road management. Also, there are reverse cases where on public surfaces there are planted plantations, built economic facilities, etc. Due to this situation, the controllers were prevented from taking action on the roads on which the law required and were exposed to the risk of the property owner’s claim. By adopting this law, all public roads built until the day of entry into force of this law will be entered into as the right of property of the Republic of Serbia, the province or local self-government. What is very important is the introduction of a road manager's obligation to draw up annual and five-year travel network reports that manages and this will ensure proper planning and allocation of travel network maintenance budgets and, in this way, act in a timely manner to improve traffic safety. All in all, we are getting a quality law that will lead to the improvement of the state of roads in Serbia and the security of traffic, and I call on all MPs to support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35765	Since there are no more statements on the lists of registered parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a joint, principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35766	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, I'm fascinated by this drop-off from across the street from the SNS, whenever someone from the DS picks up, we have a show on the other side. It must be nice for them, while their pockets are full, while driving expensive cars while sitting in leather chairs, Serbian citizens are starving...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35767	Let's talk about the law, fellow Milojits.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35768	... and the citizens of Serbia are becoming more difficult and more difficult, and so are the members of the security sector who have no settled housing issues, and Mr. Chairman would ask you to tell me how much time I have left, if you see.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35769	In total with these 40 seconds, three minutes and nine seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35770	Thank you. It is a devastating fact that in Serbia today, 30,000 security officers, regardless of whether they work in the BIA, the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Defence, have not resolved the housing issue. It is a good attempt for this government to provide a roof over its head for 18,900 members of the Security Sector as long as it has reported its wish to participate in this programme. Just like I did a few days ago, i.e. yesterday, I will also ask where I will get 500 euros per square metre from a member of the MUP or the Ministry of Defence. If he wants an 80-square apartment, which is an average for a four-member family, that's 40,000 euros. With reduced salaries that you have reduced the members of the MUP and the Ministry of Defence with reduced diaries, with reduced pensions since there are also military pensioners and people who have been doing security work, but are now retired. The D.S. government you've been talking about all day today, so I see you have some sort of complex, or whatever it is, whatever speaker came forward from the S.N.S. He was talking about the D.S. government. The DS government built 5,000 apartments, and you promised 2014 to build a 380-euro square. What's up with that? That's not gonna happen. As there is no such thing as Mrs Mihajlovic, the minister here, promised to reach Novi Sad in 30 minutes by train. And there's nothing of it. I wouldn't want this project to be anything. We want the members of the Security Sector to find a roof over their heads, but with the salaries of 22,000 dinars, 75% of the civilians working in the Security Sector have an average salary of 22,500 thousand dinars. Seventy-two per cent of Serbian Army members earn lower earnings than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. How will those with that money set aside 500 euros per square, if what you say is true, and you will allow us, not us, not to deny you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35771	You're spending the rest of your life with your colleague Milojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35772	... but you are not trusted by the members of the Security Sector, and only to invite Vulin's aunts from Canada to provide everyone with an apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35773	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35774	I thank the chairman. Says the previous speaker that we are dealing with the Democratic Party. We're not dealing with the Democratic Party, we don't need to deal with the Democratic Party. No one deals with the Democratic Party anymore. No one in Serbia is interested in the Democratic Party anymore. You got two percent in the election, four parties in the coalition, and two percent together you won. Nobody's interested in that anymore, so you're dealing with yourself. Look, please, today's debate between them, so you remember Mr. Chairman, surely Mr. Pike, I know that many have forgotten him, he is remembered by the people of Vojvodina. Well, Bojan Pajtic accused the previous speaker of abuses over the election process within the Democratic Party's exactly. Well, he says, in Smederevska Palanca there are examples of, uh, 1800 paid membership fees, it's just impossible to have so many members. Directly accused him of manipulating the election process within the Democratic Party. If that's true, and I believe it's true, because I know who it's about, when it comes to the previous speaker. Then you can imagine when he flies and lies and sets up an election process in his party, what he would only do tomorrow, if God didn't give it to a state function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35775	Easy, Mr. Milojicic, first fellow Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35776	I thank the chairman. Here's who knows what time we're asking the question that all state authorities have given clear answers, from the Anti-Corruption Agency, through the competent prosecutors, but I also hope that these competent prosecutors will give answers to the question, what happened and how it is possible that before Mr. Scrabbler from Jarram Market became an investor of building a facility on Vračar's pastures and a holder of the permit, the original investor was withdrawn from the job, he owned the firm Tresna d.o.o. I mean, they had cherries that year very well, but it looks like the bad guys with Jarram's market just gave birth. There's no answer to the question of what it's like to be a cherry d.o.o. from the Ministry of Defence in the restrictive public procurement procedure, they got a job to carry out the work towards the ministry worth 19.8 million dinars. There is no answer yet, even from the authorities to the question, in which way the shopkeeper with Djeram market paid his share of 273,000 euros to practically another million and a half euros in how much the investment costs, as assessed by the occasive method. And to all this he says that one year after he bought it, he didn't give it to anyone, so we're asking ourselves extra questions, and who paid that investment for him. Is it Mr. Milojic who may have done it from that difference in the purchase of home and reselling of the JNA House in Smederjevska Palanca or has gone for something we expect information for, which is one joint investment, on the Miljakovec of a special facility, but not military but private.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35777	Thank you. Right on line, MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35778	Thank you and I am glad that the previous speaker mentioned the government of Vojvodina and the prime minister of the Democratic Party, because what he is, and all the presidents of the Democratic Party, what they have done in their portfolios, whether it is Gilas, Pajtic, Sutanovac, Boris Tadic or Zoran Djindjic, you cannot even paint. Now we can talk about Vojvodina, for example. Construction of the Vojvodina Emergency Clinical Centre in the total area of 9000 square meters, 16 sports halls total area of 49,000 squares, 34 sports facilities, 39 gyms, 48 cultural homes, six cultural and educational centres of 3,000 squares, eight theatres, one cinema, two studios, two galleries, three libraries, two house monuments, five cultural and historical monuments, five firehouses, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, was built by the Democratic Party in Vojvodina. Seventy-five religious sites, ten chapels, two museums, eight pools were built by the Democratic Party in the AP Vojvodina. Six nursing homes, twelve buildings of a total area of 4.590 square meters, one asylum for abandoned animals, six markets, three parks, thirty-two preschool institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only part of what the Democratic Party has built in the AP Vojvodina. Nine special hospitals, two mental illness homes, three total area hospitals. I'm sorry I can't read all this, but I hope you'll build something next to Zabel, too, because you'll probably all end up there.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35779	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35780	I thank the chairman. He said everything, but he didn't say anything about "Hetherland" in Vojvodina, about the "Hetherland" affair in New Vienna, about how they got sick of children with developmental disorders by stealing money and not building a home for children with developmental disorders, or for sick children. The previous speaker, Mr. Chairman, said our pockets are full. Please, one newspaper contributed to Kena walking shoes of 1,450 euros. I am now asking a question, because of the citizens of Serbia, whose pockets are full? Are our pockets full or someone who can afford 1,450-euro shoes today? What kind of salary does a man need to have that he can afford 1,450-euro shoes? Average shoes, average shoe price, I don't know, say 50 euros. 1,450 euros for shoes. I ask the question where did the money come from? Where do they get the money for expensive spending on who he's famous for? At these expensive parties, he likes to take a picture with some controversial personalities, so here we have a picture with a controversial man, otherwise it's about the driver of that Bentley who ran into the President of the Republic on time, probably in accordance with his needs to drink 343 beers, as he drank in Smederjevska Palanca at the time. So these are the questions to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35781	Right on line, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35782	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of citizens of course whenever I go to a town and someone wants us to take a picture, or anywhere, I do it without looking at the ID card, but no one in the Democratic Party was a committeeman, like Maradona in Pancheva, a SNS councilman. So you are forever bound to hang out and support people like Maradona, such as Zelja, like Zvonko Veselinovic, who beat up honest citizens of Serbia for you. I really don't know that there are shoes of that value anywhere in the world, I don't know. They might exist. But as I asked the previous speaker yesterday to bet and that he would no longer be an MP if I had an hour of that value he said, and if I did, I would no longer be an MP. Here, I invite him right now with the cameras to go home to a beautiful village in the heart of the forest, to Glibovac, and to see if he can find shoes, not costing 1,400 euros, but costing 150 euros. So, dear gentlemen of the SNS, you've made this country sick for six years of your blasphemy, corrupt government, you've ruined everything you've touched. Six years from now, you've charged this country with 10 billion euros. You can only lie, make up and tell lies, and how much support there is, you saw it while you were in a radical uniform, when you were 40 you burned for 2, it's a variable category in politics, but in politics it's important to have a face, to be honest and to do your job honestly, which you certainly don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35783	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35784	I would like, Mr. Chairman, to measure the value of my assets with the value of the assets of the previous speaker. I've never had any executive function, never any executive authority. I wasn't the president of a community like he was, and I certainly wasn't involved in any affair. For the previous speaker, I think all we can do is have an affair after an affair all day long. It's just, whatever we get ourselves out of his career, we'll see it's an affair. So he's talking about someone getting sick. For only one term, the president of the municipality, he ate Smederjevska Palanka for four annual budgets of the municipality. Four annual budgets. A little while ago, we're getting some kicks, and so on. The only players in politics, in the political struggle I know of were the beatings of Kenna right now in the Smederjev Palace. The papers wrote about it on several occasions. He called them, in fact, the citizens of the Smederjev Palanka called them "Kenina Tigers", so they called them, "Kenini Tigers". They are only known for attacking and beating up in the middle of Smederjevska Palanka, a man who was 63 at that time. I think that Dragan Petrovic's name is, don't catch me right now, I'm not sure, I think it's Dragan Petrovic. At that point, he was 63 years old. He disagreed with the way Kena runs the Smederevska Palanka municipality and got beat up about it. In his statement, he said that Kenna hit him with his fists and feet on his chest. He and his “tigers. ” A 63-year-old man. A hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35785	Since I see where this is going, I'm setting a three-minute break in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure (Alexander Martinovic: Go on the highway. [[Radoslav Milojic: Why don't you give me a line, then set a break?]] Radoslav Milojic: You work there. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35786	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, since there are no more members of the Parliament's groups registered for the word before a joint principled search is concluded, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35787	Thank you. At the end of this debate that was united and what was almost so rare in the National Assembly, this united debate and it makes sense. So they're pretty much related to the laws that are being discussed. But it seems to me that somehow the debate has come down, that is to say, into some three continents. One is the debate that started on building apartments that will be prepared for security forces under special conditions. Then, the debate also ran towards traffic security and traffic in general. I would briefly refer to this law which is in fact the support of a project to build apartments for members of security forces, which we have also called a kind of Lex specialist. The minister gave a reply to my colleague Đurić when he participated in the debate and said that somewhere between 18,000 people who are employed in this area are expecting apartments and noted that perhaps that number could be higher and that 30,000 people who are waiting for these apartments might be expected. It is indeed an affirmative measure, and in this sense we cannot give criticism. What worries me is that we have some different areas, or people employed in different areas who have not received a solution similar to what people who are employed in police, military or BIA have got. For example, I'm interested in how many people are employed in the education sector who are equally waiting for some apartments under more favourable conditions? How many employees do we have in the health sector, which are also waiting for some apartments under more favourable conditions than other citizens in Serbia? In this regard, it may be more important that the government of the Republic of Serbia thought about a general economic empowerment of Serbian citizens before focusing on only one group of people. So it is affirmative and in this sense we can praise the government's measure, that is, the measure of the ministry, proposed by this law, but we are really concerned about what is going on with other groups of people, in particular what seems to me, there are also those who do not live in economic well-being, as well, and in that sense are as endangered as representatives of military-security structures. The second option that has been imposed in this debate, i.e. the other area that has been imposed, is the area of traffic security. Here we can praise some of the measures that have been set, such as increasing maximum speed on highways of 130 km per hour. What am I worried about, though? We have recently had a large number of roads and highways that are open, in which unfortunately we do not have the opportunity to achieve maximum speeds. One of those is, for example. A path that connects Zemun and Panceva. You have a Pupin bridge, I think it's a famous new path where maximum speed is allowed 50 kilometers per hour, even though you have three lanes in each direction. It's a little unusual that one new road has such a kind of restriction, considering that it's probably not just tractors and connected vehicles, but more serious vehicles. In this sense, we remained unclear, for example, about what exists. The restriction on such a one-way trip? Somewhere in public there's been information that it's because the tapes are narrowed, and I still can't talk about it, since I'm not an expert in the area. Even if that were true, three single-way strips really do allow a speed greater than 50 km per hour. The other thing is that by allowing this speed of driving on our roadways, we are really going in step with time, because cars are simply and bazaaring right now at some higher speeds and where there are conditions, we may strive to do so and there are no limits along with, let me say, like some parts of the highway in Germany. What I'm worried about is, for example, the quality of those roads on which our vehicles are moving. One situation, perhaps everyone knows, is not part of the highway or the road when you cross the border from any country in the environment and enter Serbia without being aware that you have entered Serbia. I came from Croatia the other day, there's no way you can't understand that you went to Serbia just for the simple reason that even when you're dying, you know exactly that you've crossed the border. The third debate that was launched in the Assembly today is rail laws. A colleague Đuric also spoke about it. He got answers from the minister. In this regard, I thank her for offering our MPs answers. What we didn't get the answer to is the accessibility of the railway stations themselves for people with disabilities. I believe you may not have your answers at all times, but you may have been informed in the meantime. We are interested in how this issue will be resolved, given that there is a rule that is already in force, which is just talking about how to regulate accessibility not only of railway stations, but of objects not only of persons with disabilities, but of children and older people? I would like, in that sense, that the Minister today gives us an answer at the end of the debate and on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35788	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35789	Thank you. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, first of all, I would like to draw on once again some of the most important points at the end of this truly exhaustive debate in which, I will repeat once again, we have not heard, and we have listened very carefully, not one single real complaint, a fundamental regret about all the drafts of the law, except for the urgency of the procedure. Although repeatedly said, Serbia's citizens need to repeat it once more, and when it comes to the bill that has undoubtedly caused the biggest media attention, therefore, the Lex specialise we have discussed on the construction of cheap apartments for members of security forces, that this is actually the beginning of a major problem that hasn't been solved for decades. For decades, various governments have gone over this problem or have declared themselves advocating to solve such a problem, but in practice they have done nothing. It is only since the arrival of the SNS authorities that prepares for solving, permanently solving such a major problem. And, today, we are in a position to carry this bill that will enable this project to be realised and, as we have heard, but once again, it is necessary to enable construction in the first phase of 1,578 apartments in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kralje, Nis and Vranja. That would be phase one. In total, it is foreseen in these six cities to build 5,203 apartments. The estimated funding amounts to almost 65m euros, 64,335,000. It should be noted that it is a favourable price, a maximum favourable price, as far as possible at this time. It is an amount that cannot be higher than 500 euros without VAT. In this way, we will enable a large number of security forces to resolve their housing issue under favourable conditions. Priority is given to those who do not have a settled housing issue in relation to those who have an inadequately resolved housing issue. It is simply that although we have pointed out these moments several times in the principle debate, all the time some MPs have asked the same questions about all these conditions that people who apply for the purchase of the apartment will have to meet. In a very fair, very fair, very correct way, this law envisioned a fair match in which all participants will have equal treatment, or on equal terms they will be able to achieve the rights that this law allows them. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, I would point out by the very end of the largest benefit this will produce, which is that total revenues, generated revenues from future taxis and all kinds of fees will be increased by over two million euros, which we have also heard several times in the debate and heard. Some have challenged it, some have pointed out it as benefit, but it's certainly true that at this point we have had a serious problem with a large number of illegal gravel and dumps, in fact a deposit of gravel and sand on the banks of our rivers. There were over 150 of them, and we just had to sort of start solving this problem, which will undoubtedly take some time. This law also provides for a gradual solution to this problem and a gradual introduction into legal flows, but in accordance with the law. So we will allow the people who carry out this activity to continue to perform their work, but in accordance with the provisions of this law. For those temporary deposits of gravel and sand not covered by the decisions of the units of local self-government, the possibility of moving to port areas which have already been established or will be established in accordance with spatial plans is foreseen. So whoever wants to deal with it will have every opportunity to do it, I repeat, according to this law, and the benefits for the state are immeasurable. When it comes to the draft law on railways and here we heard some attempts at criticism, but no one could argue that the results we have achieved over the past few years. By separating three companies, so Serbia's railway infrastructure, then Serbia's train, Serbia's Kargo, we have achieved really visible results in the very functioning of Serbia's railway system. Not to mention that we have achieved separation of funding methods and models, that we have achieved a field of definition and responsibility of these companies, that we have raised the quality of rail transport services of goods and passengers to a truly better level. As we said in the principle debate, that's not the end of it. It's a new law, a law that is, among other things, a subject today... (President: Time.) Finish your sentence. ) For all these reasons, I would like to call on us to support all of these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35790	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35791	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Madam Minister and Vice President of the Government, dear colleagues, I will make sure I don't take too much time. This set of laws, as I have already noted, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants, the United Peasants' Party will support it in the voting day. I would like to add something else that seems to me that we missed in this debate today and to say to those who are skeptical of what was mostly a subject, it is this Law on building apartments for security forces, which is that we are just right to expect, looking at the overall policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2012, to continue in the coming period with the same small but stable steps to raise the economy and economy of the Republic of Serbia and to lead to the growth of the real profits being made in order to increase salaries and members of security structures, at least so sure that they will be increased, although we expect this construction to start in August and September. We know that the ministry and the ministries that will follow this do it very effectively, but regardless of the time when the first anunities start to arrive for the loans, which are here we hear possible on very favourable terms due to the low interest, due to the subsidies that the state will provide, that at least these credit wars will be part of the increase, the safe increase that follows for the profits of members of these forces and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not much, and we expect it for a reason and rightly so that it should certainly not worry, especially those who have ruined the economy of the Republic of Serbia by 2012, from which and how security forces will be able to pay off these apartments in the future. We rightly expect that these spendings, which are on average today in Serbia, will be at least 100, 150 euros in the next year, a year and a half when these loans are in order and for this reason we provide strong support for all this, which will also contribute as one serious momentum to the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35792	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35793	I thank you, Chairman. This time that remains certainly will not be used as a whole because it is not necessary to present something that would be excessive when it comes to the quality of the proposal contained in this body of laws that we are discussing today, or we are discussing, but today has somehow failed to look back on one of the proposed laws which, by our deep conviction in the SPS parliamentary group, in any case merits attention, and especially because of citizens. It is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Intermediation Act and leased immovableity, given its legal reflection on the fight against terrorism. In fact, I think that this law contributes to the fact that, when it comes to the market of immovableity and when it comes to those who have full capacity, the legal capacity to intervene in the traffic of immovableity, finally systematically being resolved their status in terms of having the necessary expertise, the relevant licences, and now what is particularly significant in these changes and complements, one of the reasons why they can even appear with the legitimacy of intermediaries, is to prove that they have not been prosecuted, or convicted of corrupt crimes, such as crimes related to crimes against corruption, bribery, bribery and the most important and criminal acts of the group of organised crime. Why is this system solution an extremely large qualitative shift so far? In order not to blame all those honest and honest meddlers in immovable activity, it was precisely in the traffic of immovableities that were simply not or could not be in the focus of various investigations, various criminal and legal checks, especially in the operational procedures of the pre-criminal procedure, then they could not be adequately observed because they had always acted in the gray zone and achieved a large anti-lawful property benefit. That is why, with this system solution, I hope that it will certainly be adopted as proposed, it contributes to further regulating the situation in that area as well. Finally, given that we have successfully clarified the relationship between public notebooks and the immovableity cadasar when it comes to the obligation to supply data, please, dear minister, just so you have one more important detail in mind, of course, this is not the opening of a front towards public notebooks, we have to cooperate, but one very important detail is the criminal provisions which bind to all those who, as bonds of data supply to the Immobility Catastrophe Office, have to comply with the law of the prescribed deadlines. In public records, the organisational structure is specific and they only have their own Public Note Chamber, as well as the disciplinary bodies of the Public Note Chamber. As entrepreneurs, they are fully independent in the exercise of their powers and if public powers are conferred on them. The question arises as to how sanctions will be applied, or penalties, in the event of breach of a certain obligation imposed on them in respect of the application of the provisions of this law. Of course, the extreme well-meaning and in some future changes and additions to this law, I'm sure you'll have that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35794	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35795	Dear MPs and MPs, first of all, let me thank you for the debate we've had these two days. Given the large number of draft laws, thank you to all who have made their constructive proposals, I will address this opportunity to you, but of course to the citizens of Serbia, to know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is regulating the system and resolving the issue in a systematic manner. The twenty laws we have discussed together these two days give us several important opportunities after Parliament, hopefully, adopts them, and that is the first thing to solve a question that is really very important, a strategic issue, which is the issue of resolving the housing problems of members of the security forces. It means all those who are employed, whether in the police, the military or the BIA. What I want to repeat to the citizens, given that there have been different comments, above all by the opposition, which I have to admit, was hardly even present, by debates, but only from time to time, to attack the government, I guess they think it's their job, and thus they showed, of course, how much they really care about both the military and the police, and to the power of security at all. So, because of the citizens of Serbia to repeat that this is one model that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it has a stable budget, because it has stable finances, because we are a country that records high rates of economic growth, 4.5% in the first quarter of this year, gives us the possibility that we can launch such large projects, which will thus affect not only citizens in terms of making apartments, but will affect our entire economy. The maximum price of these apartments can therefore be 500 euros per square metre without VAT, which means that in the interior of Serbia, the price will certainly be lower. Everything the state does will primarily be an investor, but the state has also provided money. The first phase of the 5203 apartment, which will be built over the next few years, will be worth over 150m euros, and 1500 apartments starting practically in the next three, six, or nine months have the value of a 64m-euro investment. Serbia's government stands for these investments with its budget above all. What I would particularly point out here is that this model is not being closed, so there's a possibility when we see what this project will look like, that we also sit down and talk about whether we can apply this kind of model to some other population categories, because really as a country in this financial, economic sense, I would say we have less and less problems. Actually, I'd say we're on one good trip. In addition to this law that's important to citizens, and these other laws that we've discussed, perhaps a little bit less, are equally important to citizens. It's not just a technical question if we're going to increase the maximum speed on the highways from 120 to 130 km per hour. It is a technical question of amending the law, but it is equally important that we now change the part that is related to the violent driving and that we take care of the safety of all those driving on our roads, which is that in the violent driving, we now assume, in addition to the prison sentence and that penalty called the fine. In front of Serbian citizens who will benefit and practically be the ones who will feel the effects of these laws, there is also the Law on the transport of passengers and freight in road traffic. It is important because of the speed, efficiency, it is important for all our transport companies, it is important for public transport, it is important for all users of such modes of transport, because it will enable efficiency, speed and orderly system. It has often occurred to us that some parts of our road traffic have not been fully arranged. As a ministry, in the past few years we have arranged a system of licensing, we have also arranged a system of licensing, we are now adding these systems so that there are no abuses, so that citizens and businessmen on the other hand are satisfied. In addition, a very important set of laws in the railway area, we can be so far, for this time, as we have done over the past few years, worked, invested, raised both roads and railways, we can all be proud. It's not just us from the government or just the SNS, it's really for the pride of all Serbian citizens. Everything that was done from 2012 to today, we can also find out through the number of kilometers of roads, highways, through rehabilitated railways, through new trains, through new locomotives, through the fact that we are the tenth in the world to issue construction permits, through the fact that we are a respectable and respectable country compared to how we were treated before 2012. Therefore, we will continue to work, as we will continue, I believe and hope, to adopt a law on enrollment of immovableity in the cadastre. Finally, citizens who have waited for years, once had serious problems, in administrative procedures etc., can now expect us to have enrolment in Katastar in five days, which is important if we want to round up a story in the area of construction. Of course, in the end, since there's been a lot of talk about it, and these are illegal gravel and I call them sandpapers, but they're not sandpapers, it's important because it means an additional inflow into our budget. From that inflow into our budget tomorrow we will also invest in infrastructure, so, as we solve illegal views, the budget will certainly be higher, and we will invest in infrastructure or in other forms. So, once again, I thank you for your constructive discussion. To those who are not here today, and who have seen around to say that this government has done nothing, the message is to at least sit here and hear what we've done, because that's good for the MPs of the opposition. Therefore, I also think that when we speak, in the last talks, just one of the opposition representatives talked about the fact that the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia did nothing, the reminders for the citizens of Serbia, in 2012, Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy, we had negative rates of social gross product minus 3.2%, today Serbia recorded 4.5% of the growth of the social gross product, and this is indeed an example of how economic policy is being conducted. Thank you, and I'll see you on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-16-0.u35796	Thank you Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic for his co-operation and enormous energy. Thank you to all the MPs for their participation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I would like to conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 20 and a proposal for a decision referred to in point 22. The agenda. Thank you.
