ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49805	Thank you. We are forced to repeat the parliamentary question we asked a while ago by the Director of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, because the answer we received was absolutely incomplete and in fact not answered at all. We were very precise at asking our question. We have explicitly requested a table review per month for all months of the validity of the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way we pay our pensions, in which we have asked for all monthly pensions to be delivered to us according to the solutions and all monthly pensions are paid and the monthly differences of these amounts tabled for each month during which this provisional Law applied. We wanted to make every month's difference in legally tight interest and determine its current value, i.e. more accurate on December 31st 2018. Instead of a table review, we received a shorter letter stating that the pension that was 30 thousand at the time of the provisional law, at the end of the provisional law, would amount to 32 thousand, a pension of 50,000, that it would amount to 53, etc. It's not the table view we've been looking for and it's not really the data, it's not really the answer to our parliamentary question. The table review of the monthly pensions according to the monthly pensions and the monthly differences of these two groups of amounts, we need them for the simple reason we want to see how much money that is not paid to pensioners during the period of validity of the provisional law, shall be when it comes to the date of 31 December 2018. Then we want to account for that amount in advance of the legal tightened interest until some final payment day, to see how much the Serbian state's obligation would be, how much the state of Serbia would decide on what we think is right, which is that the money to the pensioners in some period of time, in the near future, would be returned, because it should essentially be a loan that pensioners, by force of the letter of the provisional law, were obliged to accept and to in some way, during the four years of validity of that provisional law, credit the state. We think it's time for the state to go out with some plan in front of the pensioners and get that money back. So that's why we need this table information, to see if it's possible to get that money back at some point and see how it fits into the budget, which is normally at the current session and we're discussing it. The next question we want to address concerns the implementation of the current budget for the current year. Given that the practice in this Parliament is that budget implementation is not discussed, budget implementation is not obtained and that actually MPs do not have an accurate insight into what money is spent on which one year earlier they are asked to use their vote committees to spend. We asked the Minister without portfolios, in charge of regional development and public enterprises. When the 2018 budget was adopted, 823 million were then approved for the key project of this ministry, which is called "supporting the implementation of measures of a balanced regional development of the Republic of Serbia". At that time, only one description of the project was provided to MPs on the basis of which MPs were to approve the spending of these 823 million and it was stated that the money was sought by directing and coordinating the work of the ministry and special organisations in the area of regional development and in the areas of public enterprises and companies of the defence industry. It has been stated that the aim of this project is to improve regional development parameters and that is more or less all the information that MPs receive when they need to say whether they approve of spending eight hundred and a few million dinars of taxpayers' money or not. We are interested in which exactly the parameters of regional development are improved, what measures of regional development have been implemented? The percentage of these measures were realised and, of course, how much all of Serbia's citizens cost, i.e. how much the implementation of the 823 million taxpayers' budgets, let's see exactly what that money was spent on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49806	Thank you. (Miladin Ševarlic: Rules of Procedure. I can let you ask a question, but I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you want a question, a notice, an explanation, I'll give you the word right now. Do you want to? (Miladin Chevarlic: No. Don't you want to ask a question? Okay. Think about it, you're the only one in the parliamentary group, but the Rules of Procedure can't, we haven't even started working. The word is Slavisa Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49807	Thank you. Madam Chairman, I would like to ask you the first question as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is - When will you, in accordance with your constitutional powers and obligations, call local elections in northern Kosovo and Metohija, so in the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic, Zvekani, Zubin Potok? This issue, of course, will remind me very briefly that in 2013, the government, past all constitutional and legal solutions, disbanded local self-governments in these municipalities, which functioned according to the system of the Republic of Serbia, which emerged after the elections that were conducted under our laws for one reason only, in order to force Serbs to go to the separatist elections that fall 2013. Here, now is the opportunity for you to call the elections, given the circumstances that the mayors of these municipalities, who were in the Pristina system, have resigned, which I welcome and I welcome, I must say, the vast majority of Serbs in the Kosovo and Metohija area, but unfortunately we doubt this honesty. Here's why. Because it was expected that resignations would be submitted to the so-called MPs. Kosovo's "community" and ministers in so-called "Government of Kosovo" that judges also withdraw, that members of civil protection return to their seats. That, unfortunately, was not there. Of course, the biggest suspicion is the behavior of the representatives of our authorities. Yesterday we had a chance to listen to Mark Djuric, where he somehow denied that they resigned. People say -- we resigned; and Marko Djuric says at a press conference that they suspended their participation in Kosovo institutions until Pristina withdraws its measures. That's a big difference. Otherwise, I absolutely agree that the only way, unfortunately, is for us Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, as I see it now, calls for the power of Gandhi's struggle, a long-term gang battle, which happened until this government came in, or the power of the SNS. I have to point out one positive example among these mayors. Zubi Potok Mayor Stevan Vulovic said in a statement to RTS, I will have to quote; "After five years, I am extremely happy because I was carrying a burden of bruce called the mayor of Kosovo institutions. I'm so happy about that. For five years, we have suffered tortures of various species from all sides. Everything has its end. Here, I am so happy that this is the end." He also called on you to call the elections, not only in Zubin Potok, but in all municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, and he only submitted written resignations to Pristina institutions, which the other three mayors did not do. That's why I doubt it, though, I say, I absolutely welcome that act. I urge you once again to call the final elections, in accordance with your constitutional obligations. The second question is to Alexander Vukic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, and it says: what trouble makes Alexander Vukic defraud the public over the past months and avoids the truth when he says that the borders on Jarinj and Brnjak have been set by the previous authorities, and he even once mentioned my name, since I was then in office of the president of the municipality, when the facts say something completely different? So, so-called. The integrated transition management didn't start in 2011, according to Aleksandar Vucic, in 2012, on December 10th in Jarinj, on December 31st, 2012 in Brnjak. That is the conclusion of the government, and that is the conclusion of the government, in which the SNS, when Ivica Dacic was the prime minister and the first vice president, Aleksandar Vukic. In that conclusion, I will read the two most important positions, saying: "The government accepts information about the talks of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic with EU High Representative Catherine Ashton and the representative of the interim Kosovo institutions, Hashim Thaci", it remains that the government will implement an agreement in such a way as to open the administrative crossing of Jarinja and Merdare on December 10th, and the administrative crossing of Brnjak and Končulj on December 31st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49808	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49809	Thank you, President. I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, and I ask, for the third time, that the Members of this Parliament and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been provided with information on how much public enterprises have spent on advertising in the media from 2012 to 2018 and how the project financing of the media in the Republic of Serbia is realised, if we are witnessing that 90 million tabloids have been given to the Belgrade City of Belgrade in competition this year in order to implement the propaganda of the ruling regime, lying, criticising, targeting, attacking anyone who thinks differently, representatives of the opposition, Serbian citizens, spreading the atmosphere of the lynch, hatred and aggression – how much and in what way does it finance? It is particularly worrying that in the new draft Law on Free Access to Public Meaning Information, you have gone one step further, so you have put as one provision that capital companies such as, say, corridor, EPS or railways will no longer have to act and provide information that is of public importance. I ask the question of the Minister of Culture and Information – what will they do about the brutal violation of the code of journalism, the violation of the Law on Public Information and the media, the public media services that happen every day in the Republic of Serbia? So, will they take measures to finally comply with the laws in this state of Serbia? Or will the answer be to retake money from Serbian citizens to finance public media services RTS and RTS? I'll remind you what Alexander Vukic said about the fees for RTS in 2013. I quote Alexander Vukic's statement: “TV subscription, as I promised the citizens of Serbia, will be abolished because I do not belong to that type of people who have cheated on Serbian citizens for 12 years and have only dealt with marketing tricks. This is our obligation we will not give up on," 23 May 2013, Aleksandar Vukic. A year later, when he became prime minister after the victory, he said the subscription would be lifted, but added that it would be done at a certain time. What have we got, since it's a big lie, only one in a series of lies that citizens of Serbia live in today? They got citizens a fee of 150 dinars, so you have now predicted that from 2019 to 40%, to 220 dinars, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia continue to sponsor your power. So, all you're saying is that you're going to give through salary increases and pensions, again you're going to take citizens through various taxes, through various excises, through various increases. It will also collect electricity, collect taxes for RTS, collect other commitments, so that the citizens of Serbia should only know that what you gave them will be taken from them in the following year, because you have foreseen this budget. I ask the Minister of Information and Culture, I ask RTS Director Dragan Bujosevic, when will he start acting professionally on RTS and allow all those representatives of political opposition parties in Serbia to respond to the same public service financed by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to those vomit, lies and convictions that the President of the Republic is every day about them? And it appeared this year in 3,520 contributions, 10,893 minutes, 181 hours or seven and a half days uninterrupted is Aleksandar Vukic on RTS. During that time, speaking of the opposition, he used terms – scum, lowlifes, tycoons, criminals, robbers, and even accused individuals of killings. So, when and will RTS allow these called people to respond in accordance with the Media and Public Information Act to President Aleksandr Vukic, who, apart from lies, hate and aggression, is neither good nor good or did he do it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49810	Thank you. The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49811	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Sandzak, in the previous days, have received more messages primarily from our diaspora people, who have been funding the Islamic community in Serbia and the Muamer Zukorlic Foundation for years, in which they ask me to ask a question about the news that has very upset them and which has been very concerned them. Namely, information has come to those people that Muamer Zukorlic paid Vojislav Seselj 50,000 euros out of the money they donated to him to deal with his political opponents. In this regard, I ask the Agency and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to provide me with information, to examine these claims, and also to request an annual financial report from the Agency for Economic Registers... (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. I can't go on. They're very nervous colleagues. So, I ask the Business Registers Agency to submit an annual financial report to me by the Mufti Foundation of the Islamic Community in Serbia and the SRS. It is very indicative that Vojislav Seselj, SRS, as well as other parties to the Vucic regime, focused their entire political action solely on the placement of false news, lies and false claims at the expense of Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, the Bosniak National Council and other political and public figures. This is precisely the attempt to install their candidate, candidate Muammer Zukorlic, into the Bosniak National Council. What is particularly concerned is the fact that these attacks are led by Vojislav Seselj, a man who is a convicted war criminal, which brings me to the next question I ask you, President, why don't you respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia? Vojislav Seselj under the law cannot be a MP and cannot sit in these benches because he is a convicted war criminal. The Hague tribunal also confirmed the verdict yesterday and we ask you to schedule a session as soon as possible and withdraw the mandate of Vojislav Seselj. If it does not bear fruit, we will press charges before the relevant courts, and if that does not result in justice we will seek before international courts. We have seen here over the past few weeks that the statements of Sulejman Ugljanin have been interpreted in various ways, spinning as they please, spinning. They also saw that those lies were broken into on the fake news site, where they were used by non-existent statements, and they attacked a man, and they threatened the Bosniaks with lies and tried, as I said, to install your candidate. So, SDA Sandzak is in Sandzak in a coalition with the Sandzak Democratic Couple and we have signed our coalition agreement with Nihad Hasanovic, with a party that has a Sandzak sign, a Sandzak identity and which has not given up that identity and we are trying to build a positive political, economic climate in Sandzak. But what is done here is the attempt of this progressive-radical coalition to kill, with one bullet, and Sulejman Ugljanin and SDA Sandzak and the Bosniak national council, but also Rasim Ljajic and other political and public figures and NGOs and in Sandzak installs his candidate, his pet, Muamer Zukorlic. I have no desire, no intention of defending Rasim Ljajic, but I see that he, along with Ugljanin, is as Bosniak, as the minister of this government, is on target, a constant target of radical attacks, which is in favor of that fact that radicals and how well they are paid. So, I'm asking you in the interest of the citizens to provide me with this information so that their concerns and their doubts... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49812	Thank you. I'm just asking you to read the good Rules of Procedure. Dear Lieutenant Imamovic, please just a good Rules of Procedure to study. Enis Imamovic throws. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Just get a good look at who they are and what they're like. Do we have a deal? Thank you very much, and you will be given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Answer and in accordance with my powers and powers. I'm just asking you to think it through. Enis Imamovic throws. I can't give them a word on this basis. You know that well. You know that very well. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49813	I thank you, dear President of the Assembly. My fellow Members, as I have so far asked certain questions concerning the particular problems of our citizens, our agricultural producers and people living in the country, from the village and in southeastern Serbia. My question is directed towards the Ministry of Transport, "The Ways of Serbia", and the city of Nis. By the way, my question concerns a concrete reconstruction of the construction of a section of the road, which goes from the end of Književacka Street. Those who live in that area know the street of Bookie and know that part. It is the city municipality of Pantelej, and that part of the road was in the jurisdiction of "The Way of Serbia". Otherwise, it was a state road, and at that time a government that led both the state and the city of Nis led that journey to the authority of the city of Nis, to work and reconstruct and maintain that part of the road, which was another one of the mistakes of the government at the time. This part of the road that I mentioned earlier, it's the end of the Book's Street towards the Machuvanska loop, it's about six kilometers away from that part of the road and it's a very common road. Back in 20 years, that part of the road was poorly maintained, nothing was done, and it was in catastrophic condition. The impact holes, big ones, and I think it's important for all of us living in southeastern Serbia, for all of those living in the territory of the town of Nis, who live in Svrlig, Književec, and coming to Nis, it's important that this part of the road be reconstructed as soon as possible, done, and I think it would be best for all of us who live there to take over this part of the road again, because it is the easiest and the best way to keep it. Otherwise, the length, I said, is about six kilometers. The value of these works would be about 170 million dinars and construction, the reconstruction of that part of the road would be for all people living there, there are people living in the village of Malce, the village of Matejevac, Donja Vrežina, Pasjac and those living in Svrlig, because a large number of my Svrljjans live and work in Nis, but they come to Svrljag, they visit our villages, that is true for the people of Knjižec, who live in Nis, they have their families, that part of the time we end. Otherwise, something that is very important, and we all need to know, there's also a payment ramp in the part of the Malcanic loop, and when that payment ramp is over, then there's going to be a obligation for anyone who wants to go on the highway to pay that toll, which is normal. On the other hand, a large number of our people who are now traveling from Svrlig, Književci, are heading towards Nis, are going that part of the highway because this time is in very bad shape. In this part of the road there are a large number of businesses, which are very active, which are doing great, and I would once again ask and call on the authorities in "The Ways of Serbia", I would ask the competent Ministry of Transport, as well as the city of Nis to get into the process as soon as possible and to provide funds for reconstruction, a complete reconstruction of this part of the road, because it is really important for all the people who live there, who work there, for those agricultural producers who go to their villages, who go to Nis, to produce certain agricultural products, and in Nis at the market. With the construction of this part of the road there will be a really great relaxation for all those who live there, and also, once again, I note, that in 2019, a payment ramp will be built in the part of the Malcana loop and that charge, normally, requires greater funds for all those who would go across the highway, as they are now doing. I am sure that the competent ministry and the Serbian Roads will find an opportunity, as I see that in the 2019 budget there are large investments in infrastructure, in construction, which is good for all of us, to finish that part of the road. It's good for those people who live in Nis, it's good for those people who live in Srlig, and they work in Nis, for those from Književec, it's simple for every local in the town of Nis that road is very important and the construction of that part of the road is necessary for all of us. Once again, I am sure and have great confidence in our prime minister, in the president of Serbia, and I expect this to end. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49814	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49815	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in the past few days, we have had an unprecedented aggression against the Serb people who live on KIM. So Albanian separatists from KIM blocked the entire economy, it can be said, in northern Kosovo when they introduced customs on goods from Serbia, and this has put the Serbian people in danger, the Serb people remain in northern Kosovo and on their KIM without drugs, food and supplies for basic needs of life. What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do about this? Is it possible that Ana Brnabic, as prime minister of the government, declares that she will address someone there who is responsible for respecting the CEFTA agreement and that this will last 90 days, etc.? Isn't it urgent to help our countrymen on KIM? Does he have any more important questions at the moment? Indeed, in the past 20 years we have been safe, and perhaps more, faced with Albanian separatism and terrorism at KIM. So the government should react urgently, provide any kind of help to our countrymen at KIM. This should show us the consequences of the Brussels dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, i.e. between Serbia and self-called Kosovo. We had the opportunity to see Albanian special forces in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, although the foreign minister, and then the Prime Minister, assured us that he had reached an oral agreement with Kosovo Albanians, that Albanian forces and Albanian police could not go to northern Kosovo, and said that the oral agreement had the same importance as the written agreement, and even such importance has an agreement on the napkin. Where then was the foreign minister with his napkin when Albanian special forces raided Serbian apartments and harassed citizens of Serb nationalities living in northern Kosovo's Mitrovica. This should be a lesson for the government of the Republic of Serbia and should urgently consider continuing its policy towards KIM and continuing its foreign policy. Certainly Serbia's biggest national problem today is Kosovo and perhaps it can be seen in history why all this is so, perhaps some government in Serbia or the SRJ could have done otherwise, there would have been no separatism, but I must say that today we have signs of separatism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You know, the new president of the Bosniak National Council, the Bosniak National Minority Council, published on social networks a map of the former Yugoslavia's state on which he separated Kosovo and Vojvodina and Sandzak from Serbia. I would just like to warn Mrs Nela Kuburovic – does she know what a crime is – an attack on the constitutional order, i.e. High treason? Is it possible in the official institutions that a man named Esad Juja can publish this in public? Worst of all, the official government in Serbia is in coalition with this man. She chose her votes through her coalition partners and some of the man's satellite parties to be president of the Bosniak National Council. I can only interpret that the government in Serbia agrees with this. You know, whoever supports this man, whoever supports this man's policies is the worst scum and scum, and so are Sulejman Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49816	The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49817	Respected citizens of Serbia, God helps everyone. It is my duty today to ask questions primarily from the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, as well as from the Minister of the Interior, and above all concerning information relating to the Municipality of Luciani. The first question is – how many people have moved from Dragacev, i.e. from the Municipality of Luciani for the previous four years of the SNS government and is it accurate that the municipality has fallen to below 20,000 inhabitants and that at least 2,000 people have left this municipality in the previous four years? The second question, and I have already filed such a request for public information, i.e. information of public importance to the Lucani police station, how many people have suddenly moved to the Municipality of Luciana in the past few months, and that SNS activists who have checked out their residences from other municipalities have applied to Luciani, as they have done for the city elections in Belgrade, in order to appear on 16 December in elections and vote as new residents of the Luciani municipality? I still don't have that information about the Lucian police station. This is the key information to see if from fighting in the Municipality of Luciani are at all regular, because imagine in one such small municipality that has under 20,000 inhabitants, and probably barely 16,000 voters, that you bring 500 or 1,000 people from the side who have clearly said that they live in Luciani, although there is not one of those promised 1,000 new jobs, and there is no return of the court to Guch, there is no end to the reconstruction of the pool in Luciani, there is no end to the sports hall. They were all fake SNS promises from four years ago, but it's nothing new. The new one, however, is something else that is very important and that I am also looking for as an answer, which is – what is the fate of the trumpet parliament in Guca? How did Slobodan Jolovic, the current head of the Moravik district, chosen by the Serbian government for the second term in office, manage to ruin one of the largest cultural and entertainment events in Serbia, such as the trumpet parliament in Guca? As long as the Government of the Republic of Serbia will allow Slobodan Jolovic, the fake magistrate, the man who took the property of the citizens of the Municipality of Luciani in his time, who ruined this municipality and quote, not to mention that this is just my words, the current president of the municipality of Luciani Vesna Stambolic of SNS, who says next in his time on TV "Telemark" in Cačka that it is about the man who credited the municipality, that interest is still being paid to 65 million dinars, that he has ruined the sports hall in Lucani in which 110 million dinars have yet to be invested, and that it has not yet been completed, that he has ruined the House of trumpeters in Guci built past the project for which has been granted a permit with numerous shortages, which has not yet added a valid permit, etc. Vesna Stambolic, current president of the Municipality of Luciani, speaks all the worst about his colleague, SNS Commissioner for the Municipality of Luciani, Slobodan Jolovic, the current head of the Moravian district and the president of the Assembly of the trumpets in Guca, who was robbed, destroyed and destroyed as one of the oldest and most traditional manifestations in Serbia, and you have succeeded as SNS for these four years. Finally, another question – who are these cute boys and girls who have been staying at the Park Hotel in Ivanjica for a month, more than 100 of them, and then possess all the households in Dragacev by visiting them and explaining that they should and must be voted for by SNS, offering coffee, sugar, flour, free medical examinations of some fake medical students and other things? Are they employees of Vrsac, Panchevo, Sombor, Novi Sad, where they come from, and do they spend their working hours as employees of SNS in these municipalities by campaigning for SNS in the Municipality of Luciani? In the end, a very important question that has not yet been answered, and I urge the MUP to reveal the identity of three beatings and thugs who tried to kill Borko Stefanovic in Krusevec. Who are M.J. 1988, D.G. 1987 and M.S. 1980s? They're not minors. They're people from 30 to 40 years old. Who are they? Who are their employers, and in this sense to take the opportunity to invite all citizens of Serbia, and in particular Kruševac – Friday 19.00 hours, Bela Hall in Krusevec, protesting tribune in Kruševec against this brutal physical beating of Borko Stefanovic, to show that Kruševac is not a forbidden city and that Kruševac is free for a different opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49818	The word is Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49819	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking a few questions for several ministers and state officials. I'm asking Minister Voulina the first question. I have said several times so far that the situation in the military is extremely bad, that members of the Ministry of Defence are extremely difficult to live, that 72% of those who left the military did so on a personal request, that 80% of the members of the Serbian Army, whom the SNS bought first with a reduction in wages, and then a reduction of the daily to 150 dinars, live extremely hard. Now I ask Minister Voulina why is the Serbian Army in what way, non-transparently, with which agreements and to whom did it sell 76 tanks? Thirty tanks were sold in July this year, 46 more tanks from Prokuplje were sold in November. Is it some kind of brother-party family interest of the SNS or is it the Ministry of Defense's interest that I'm sure it's not. I ask the second question to Prime Minister and Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar. Since I see in the budget that the government is in debt in 2019 250m euros from the European Investment Bank to build a national stadium. In addition to the Zvezda stadium, next to the Partizana stadium, beside many empty stadiums, the government has the priority of borrowing 250m euros to build a national stadium. When will at least one single euro be invested in the Infectious Clinic, which is only a few hundred metres away and is located in Belgrade? When the prime minister fulfills her promise in March, look by chance at the elections in Smederjevska Palanca, visiting the Stefan High General Hospital in Smederjevska Palanca that hospital, gymnasium, roads, will be completely reconstructed as soon as SNS wins, that thousands of jobs will be opened and to inform Serbian citizens that 200 people have been expelled from work in Smederjevska Palanca. Since March, since you won to this day. This is what it looks like, unfortunately, yesterday and yesterday, the hospital in Smederjevska Palanca. The buckets, the rags, the leaks. It's the lies and lies of Alexander Vukic and the SNS in general. These pictures are proof of your blatant corrupt rule. You only care about citizens until the elections are held, and then you don't worry about them. The last question I ask the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office - is there a single citizen in Serbia, regardless of religious, political and nationality, who does not think well of the rule of Alexander Vukic, without being a thief and a criminal? Please also submit to the prosecution, I ask the prosecutor's office a question - are there proceedings against me and my fellow Democratic Party counterparts from opposition parties before which courts? Since we don't have any notice, we don't call for courts, and every address between the president and you from the SNS we hear that we are criminals, that we are the greatest villains in history, that we are traitors, etc., etc. Well, I ask the D.A. to answer - is there any single man in Serbia who thinks your rule is bad and is not a criminal without being a bandit? That dictionary of yours and your manners will be pounded on your head. Serbia is unfortunately a country in which, since 2012 since you came to power, 91 mafia murders have been committed to date, you have only lit up six. Why? Well, because you just came to power and let all the mobsters out of prison because your friends and your associates... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49820	Ambassador... (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you shut me out? Because there are some red lines in this House. How can you say that mobsters are released here? Radoslav Milojic: Not here. Can you? You said it. So, what country are you talking about, Tungusia or Serbia? Well, released from prison. How can you say that? (Radoslav Milojic): I did not say here, but released from prison. You don't remember 2012. That's what happened. Well, I'll let you say what you've got, but don't say it again when another MP returns to you to be a problem and you complain and you yell. (Radoslav Milojic: May I continue? Well, it's no problem, I'll give you back time and all, but I can see that in parliament instead of notifying and explaining we've had a boxing match all morning. Come on, I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49821	See if you don't remember, in 2012, whether when the SNS came to power, it was up to over 1,000 convicts. I'm not telling the truth, these are the exact data and I'm asking Minister Stefanovic why only six mob murders from the 91 mafia murders that took place from 2012 until 2018, how many SNS are in power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49822	Thank you. Boban Birmancevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49823	I would like to refer my first question to the justice ministry and Minister Nelli Kuburovic. The issue is about the trial of the mayor of the town of Sapca Nebojsa Zelenovic. What is interested in Sabac, the public of Serbia, is precisely the trial that is in place, given that fivem euros from the 2015 budget were not spent in accordance with the law. I will remind the citizens and the public that the obligations are greater than the approved adroprations of 297 million dinars. Obligations without valid credible documentation 89 million dinars, obligations without any contract or other written act 31 million dinars, obligations without public procurement and without compliance with legal procedures in public procurement procedures of 42 million dinars, etc. Just fivem euros along with its associates abused the mayor. His two associates have two strong convictions. The basic court in Sapac has released Nebojsa Zelenovic, and the General Public Prosecutor's Office has filed a complaint to the Supreme Court in Sapac, which is Appellate and we expect that according to the law within the legal time limit, they will decide whether the mayor is guilty of the abuse of five million euros? The state audit institution believes it is, the court expert confirmed the finding, the main public prosecutor also believes it is. What the SNS expects is that the case doesn't go out of date. Whether he is guilty or not, Mayor Zelenovic will say the Supreme Court in Sapac. The second question is, I'm asking the Minister of the Interior and the D.A., and I'm getting attached right now to a colleague who spoke before me. I ask the question – why was the chairman of the DS Executive Board returned from Belgrade airport on Monday, on Monday, trying to fly to Brussels because of an APB? I ask the question - who has and why has called an arrest warrant for the chairman of the DS Executive Board? At the same time, he is also in the position of deputy mayor of the town of Šapca. Given that it is the chairman of the DS Executive Board, it is clear whether it is a criminal court or any other court, clearly what kind of people it is and what kind of people the DS are running. I also ask the next question to the MUP, and it is related to the attack on the woman in Šapac, outside the Sabbath theater at the time of the attempt or the failure of the Alliance's assembly of new deceptions, lies and frauds. He is just an activist who belongs to that alliance, and I think basically the activist Dveri, their co-ordinator of that alliance, Bosko Obradovic, declares that he is not their member, and then Gilas, who probably runs that entire association or as they may already be considered, is called an alliance, but I don't know what kind of alliance it is when they don't trust each other, then goes out to the next rally and commends that activist from Dveri for whom President Dveri says he is not an activist Dveri. Let's talk about who's an activist and who trusts and who's in charge of whom, but what's important is that we find out what it is and what stage of the investigation is against the activist who attacked the woman outside the Sabbath theater on the day of the rally? The next question I ask the Ministry of Finance is about an application for inspection supervision in Šapec, for employment in the town of Sapac, in public enterprises. Of course, we're talking about a large number of people, 66 people just lost their jobs when they heard there was a budget inspection, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that abuses were involved. What I'm looking for and what are the citizens of Serbia asking for is information on how many people are employed without the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What we know for sure is an extremely large number of people. The last question – 72 apartments that DRI found in 2015 are located in the city administration in Šapco, when will anyone and how will use these apartments be found out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49824	Thank you. Is anyone else answering to ask a question? Moamer Bacevac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49825	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, MPs, the esteemed chairman, respected viewers, since the current problem of national councils and many times, is often mentioned here by the Bosniak National Council, I want, here is the minister who is responsible for both the elections and its functioning, to ask him a question, and above all I want to inform all Serbian citizens that, in accordance with the laws of this country, these tips are also being established and that the absolute right of national minorities, in which absolutely no one should interfere, is the choice of these national councils. They have their own domains of political action, i.e. they have no domains of political action, but they are engaged in culture, tradition, education in native language, etc. That is why I would like to ask the Minister of Local Self-Government, Mr Branko Ruzic, who seems to me to have been very correct, did the elections go well, in law, have the councils, or other national councils, established according to the laws of this country? Because unfortunately, we saw in the campaign that some political options from here, above all, from Belgrade, even from Serbia, even nationalist parties, tried to get involved and to support certain candidates, namely certain lists, which is very untasteful and not a good sign and is not good for this country that pursues European standards. It seems to me that the government has established this larger in a good way. It was mentioned earlier that the "Vakat" list is a list of SDPs, which is absolutely not true. It's a list of intellectuals, people I mostly know, first of all, their carrier, Mr. Professor Sait Kachrapor. They're responsible people. We supported them because we think they'll do what they normally do, that they won't allow the politicization of these councils. That's why they got the support of Rasim Ljajic and our options. But they're certainly not our official list, because if they were our list, then I'd be on that list, too, and it seems to me that we might win then, most likely. So I want to direct, above all, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to know that there is absolutely no place for what we have heard these days, and often charges against Rasim Ljajic. I will remind you that today, Rasim LJajic, yesterday and yesterday, was on the biggest council of the Islamic organisation, that Serbia is officially called as a member to try to strengthen the economy and trade of this country, to strengthen bilateral relations with the Republic of Serbia and with which we will all benefit, and that in every way we are fighting for all citizens of this country, while, above all, we hear certain tones that are very unarguably and in a very bad manner of handling charges that are absurd and that are child-level and which, above all, harm the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49826	Thank you. I would like to inform you that today he was prevented from attending the session of National MP Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We are continuing a joint principled, unique search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 62 of the agenda. (Miladin Ševarlic: Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize, please, the word is Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49827	Thank you, President. There was a big Christmas post yesterday. Ends in November. Article 107. - Respect for the Assembly. At the end of November, and the National Assembly, except for one photo exhibition in the hall, 30 photographs, marked nothing with jubilee 100 years after World War I ended. So I ask you, will a special thematic session be held? If not, can we at least at the time of Christmas fasting pay our respects to 1,250,000 dead soldiers and civilians of the Kingdom of Serbia, if this country is a legal follower of the Kingdom of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49828	I thank you for your question. You have reported to the Rules of Procedure that a certain member has been broken, and I cannot find such a member to whom you have made your comment. Thank you very much. Is anyone answering for a follow-up? Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49829	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman, respected ministers, co-workers, in this session of parliament, we have something that has been established practice and I think it is bad that we are already getting used to the way we talk about the budget and the way we accept that the government delivers the most important legal act in a year. Many of my colleagues and colleagues spoke, above all from the opposition, of the fact that it is inadmissible and it is really unacceptable for the Budget Act, along with 62 other important laws, to be delivered to the National Assembly, to all of us, and primarily to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to give two days to contribute to such an important act. Most of the talk is that we're complaining that we haven't had time. No, we've had time and of course we've been working on this budget and we have experience and we can compare the tables from previous years to the 2019 plan, but that's primarily the government's attitude towards the National Assembly. This is violence against the National Assembly, violence against the institution of the National Assembly, because the budget calendar clearly defines that it is necessary to deliver these documents on November 1st and that it takes 45 days to contribute to the best solutions and to establish some priorities in spending the funds collected for 2019, which is important for the lives of people in Serbia. This is how we show that we take the budget as a document that has its own excel tables, has its numbers, but we rarely talk about what every table, what every column and every number means for the real life of our citizens. I'll try to talk about it. The finance minister, representing the 2019 draft budget, said he was developmental and was socially responsible. It's based on some parameters presented to us. This is an assumed GDP growth of 3%, and with an important parameter and a constant mantra we have been listening to here and in parliament and the minister for years, which is to reduce public debt in Serbia and that this responsible projectary budget for 2019 will continue to be reduced by a public debt in Serbia, and that the objective of the participation of public debt in GDP by the end of 2019 is 51%. Here, it's a framework, it's the parameters for budgeting for 2019, and we need it to guarantee that it's done in a responsible way. The first prerequisite is to trust this budget and this projection, to discuss here in the Assembly the adoption of the final budget account for the previous years and 2017, 2018. Many years have passed by this majority, these governments, without the adoption of a bill on the final budget account. The most common answer and justification for such is – well, that was not done even in the days of the previous governments. It is true, it was not even during the previous governments, and I must say that I was proud to be part of Parliament, part of the Assembly and MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when the final budget bill was last passed, it is the 2002 law. So, in 2002, this law was passed, and here we are now at the adoption of the 2019 budget, and it's been 17 years and there's no excuse to say -- here, and over the past years we haven't adopted the budget. Another important parameter, I think it's important that we discuss it with the finance minister, it's a public debt. How does this fall public debt and how does this government boast that it saved the country from the bankruptcy it was facing in 2014, by keeping quiet and who was the Prime Minister in 2014, and who was the majority in the government, and who was the finance minister and who chose the government? Of course, this majority, which is now a majority in the Assembly and the largest number of ministers sitting in this government. So you're the most responsible. In 2012, in the middle of the year that Tomislav Nikolic won the presidential elections and when the new government was formed, the public debt amounted to 15 billion and 300 million in 2014, reaching 25 billion in debt. So, for 10 billion years, the country was in charge and, imagine, someone was willing to lend loans to a country that, as you said, was in front of bankruptcy. Well, it's hard to lend to anyone if someone knows you're in front of bankruptcy. So, in 2014, exactly, the country was led to the brink of bankruptcy, but it's your responsibility. In recent years, this debt has really fallen from 25 billion to 24 billion. We rarely hear that information about what is the absolute amount of public debt. Yeah, he's 24 billion euros at this point, and maybe something bigger, so he's fluctuated between 24 and 300, 500, slightly less, but it's been said, in the last three, four years, that amount almost fixed to 24 billion and he hasn't changed. Then when you accept it, how can that debt fall if it's fixed for the last four years? But we keep hearing - we reduce debt, we reduce debt, we reduce debt. No, the debt remained 24 billion euros. Now, based on this amount of debt, we are represented here by the 2019 budget, which is said to be – we will reach 51% of the public debt in GDP. This means that we are planning to achieve GDP for 2019 with a simple bill, 24 times 2 – 48 billion euros. It's easy to calculate, it's simple for students from third, fourth grade primary school. The World Bank and the latest data available to us, not to discuss our own sources, but the World Bank provided data that Serbia's GDP for 2017 was 37 billion euros. So, the plan is, and with the condition that you will achieve the objectives that we are presented here, to reach a level of 51% of the public debt relative to GDP, that we will achieve 48 billion in 2019, 11 billion more than in 2017, in two years 11 billion euros, in participation 37 billion from 2017 is about 27% of the growth, 27% of the growth in two years. Now compare, and now I'm going to talk about why this budget isn't developmental. The Fiscal Council itself gave the data, which is that the proposed steps are insufficiently effective and spoke about how real GDP growth has been for the last five years, cumulatively 10%, with these 4.5% included, which means that for these previous four years the total growth has been slightly less than 6%. That's the data we've been looking at. When we boasted of a great success, a great growth in the economy, of GDP, compared to Romania, with many other Southeast European countries, we saw that we are at the beginning of this average growth at the moment 2% on an annual level. If we keep that growth, even this 4% growth, how are we going to achieve this projected growth up to 48 billion and the 27% that I mentioned in the 2017 to 2019 difference? What makes this budget, besides all this data, in my opinion, not developmental? And that's what the Fiscal Council is talking about, that it's true that the amount of capital investment has been raised planically, but that a third in that structure is planned to invest in the institutions of the repression force. It would be important to demonstrate in a transparent manner how this money will be spent, because we haven't had bigger plans to invest and finance BIA for a long time, but it would be important to invest this money primarily in the standard of these people in the Ministry of Interior and in the military and in the BIA and, of course, to those who contribute to the stability of our country, but above all to people, not to the flat-rate announcement of equipment, huge amounts of weapons, the most modern weapons we often hear, vests, transport planes, anti-air defense etc. When you look at how much it's been announced, you can't find that amount of funds in the budget, even if you invest 4% in all those funds. It's simply clear to all people who have some connection and some understanding with primarily equipment, military equipment, at that level. So why is this budget not developmental? There's a lot of reasons, but I'll give you one more. I think in the absence of this debate, and that's really something that we miss most, we lack a debate on how we are going to structure our economy and how we are going to achieve more levels of GDP growth. I believe in this growth and often in the world is talking about how you're going to stimulate this growth, from the state, from the central state level, or from the level of local self-government and the motivation of people who will best know what they need most and thus most effectively place their resources. What happens to budgets and transfers to local self-government? Here, all the last years are broken by the law, I think it's clear that no more funds are being transferred to local self-governments, that we have remained at 33 billion levels and that it is certainly necessary to increase it, precisely because in such a way they are demoted people because they do not have enough opportunities to invest in some kind of development, in solving their most important problems, because they will know better than those who give themselves discretionary rights to increase from one billion, how much funds in the last year, for individual interventions and donations with the government's decision towards local self-government, but that discretionary part is increasing by another two billion, so there are three, and that instead of 47 billion that should have been directed by local self-government, there are 33 billion. I believe that this is one of the most significant reasons for slow growth in Serbia because local self-governments and people at the bar are demoted because they are not involved in decision-making, they run away from decisions because they have neither enough resources nor enough authority to obtain and fight for a higher level of funding in local self-government. There isn't a narrow view of the party here because the largest number of local self-governments are held by you with your majority. But there are fierce attacks and so much impatience, we have heard this in these matters, according to those local self-governments, cities where the opposition, two cities and one municipality are constantly on the target of the attack, Parachin, Sabac, Chajetin, and these people have been elected again by their fellow citizens and these people are fighting for the standard of their fellow citizens. Once again, the Fiscal Council criticises something in this part of capital investment financing, which is insufficient funding for infrastructure financing, and unfortunately we see how the separation for infrastructure is realized, because we have seen examples and the Grdelitic clips and the ways in which the rinks in the Grdelička ravine are recovered, and they threaten major projects and increase costs and extend deadlines. We've seen what's going on in Corridor 11 and an internal fight, a family argument about who's responsible for the way it's done, and that's going to be spending extra budgets, and that's one huge problem. What we see and keep talking about, but there's no taking steps, that we're the most ecologically endangered country in these areas, that rivers are being taken away from people, that metal pipes are being pushed, that waste is swimming on our rivers, that we're jeopardizing healthy drinking water, that there are no sanitary dumps, that there are no collectors to clean up waste water. It's one of the objections, not just the Fiscal Council, but all of us, but I think the prerequisite is to get into those solutions, more opportunities for people who represent local self-government and more money for all of them. This budget isn't social? That's the most important question for all of us. I often spoke about status, current status, social status in Serbia in proposing some laws. Poverty in Serbia is never greater. We have seen almost the data, 10% of Serbian citizens living below the poverty line, 10% of citizens are 700,000 people in Serbia. The poverty line is 11,700 dinars per member of the family. For the four-member family, the border has been established on some criteria with children, two children below 14 years of 31,500 dinars. When you know that a minimum consumer basket is defined, therefore a minimum consumer basket of 37,000 dinars, you see that below that limit we have 10% of people up to the limit of a minimum consumer pack, there are six and a half thousand dinars left to scrape the end of the 1st to 31st of the month and 40% of people at that border of poverty in Serbia are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. These are the topics to discuss. How did you determine your priorities on where to invest money in the budget? We're talking about these priorities here. I am now asking the finance minister -- does he think the priority of this 250m new debt to build a national stadium in Serbia is 250m. I have a simple proposal for you, because we probably won't have a chance to discuss the amendments. I have one amendment that I have proposed in the last four years, precisely because of children who every day, and we talked about 700,000 people in Serbia living below the poverty line, going without breakfast to school. Let's get a free snack for all the children in Serbia, at least one healthy meal, 250m euros for the national stadium, and we don't have enough readiness to transfer some of the funds to the student standard. Here sits many party representatives who represent themselves as social democratic. I don't see the reasons, and I think there's also the finance minister and the minister of education, they can think about it, you don't have to accept my amendment and the way the transfer of funds is proposed, whether from subsidies, whether from any other division or such pointless projects as the national stadium of 250m euros. Find a solution and increase the division in the student standard, that is exactly a proposal and try to find a solution with these local self-government representatives to provide each child in Serbia with a free meal, then we did something, then maybe we took a step in the 2019 budget. Short questions, since there's little time left for the finance minister. I didn't see it in 2019, did you plan the funding from the concession for "Nikola Tesla" Airport? So, about 417 million you announced that by the end of 2018, a concession contract for "Nikola Tesla" will be published and will those funds lie at the expense of Serbia's budget by the end of this year, since I didn't see it expected in 2019? As well as another question – do we expect some income from dividends from the joint project "Belgrade on Water"? We voted against the project, but the state of Serbia has been a 30 per cent co-owner of the "Beograda on Water" project for four years. Do we have any reports on this company's final account? We see that you boast of a successful project, how much is the company's profits, and how much is the participation of all Serbian citizens in this profit? So, the majority owner has 68%, and Serbia has 32%, hence all citizens of Serbia -- what has been the contribution so far and how much dividends have been paid to the budget of the project?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49830	Thank you, colleague Kiric. Dr. Sinish Mali, the finance minister, answered the words. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49831	Thank you very much. I would refer to a few things that I think are very important for the citizens of Serbia to understand, and the overwhelming issue of public debt and its height. After irresponsible, reckless decisions from 2008. Since 2008, our country's public debt has been moving at a dizzy rate to grow. Dear citizens and honourable MPs, I'll read you a few digits to see how fast the ferry went in 2008, what it looked like then and where we are today. So on 31.12.2008, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 8.8 billion dinars. In 2009, it grows by 12%, and it's very important for me to hear the percentage growth of public debt year by year and see what irresponsible policy it is. In 2010, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia grew by 23.4%, to over 12 billion, from nine to 12. In 2011, it increased by 21.6%, to 14.8 billion. In 2012, the state of debt was 17.7 billion, 19.8% more than a year ago. In 2013 public debt, 20.1 billion additional 13.6%. So these are huge double-digit rates of public debt growth from 2009 to 2013. So, Serbian citizens know how fast that public debt grew, where in 2014, and here I hear some comments, at the end of 2014, 22.7 billion. So, all those debts that were taken over time, that trajectory, of course, is growing and in 2015 it stops. It stops because we have succeeded in fiscal consolidation measures to stop the crazy public debt trajectory that was based on irresponsible decisions that led Serbia to be in 2014 and 2013 before bankruptcy, to be unable to repay its debts because of this unreasonable policy, and the figure is dear citizens, honourable MPs, I have just read to you. Since 2015, therefore, in 2015 a total public debt of 24.8 billion, in 2016, 24.8 billion, therefore, in absolute terms, unlike the previous authorities that raised public debt by twenty-five percent. There's no change in public debt, and you're all aware of how much investment we've made in that period. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 23.2 billion, less It is therefore very important to understand that the previous government is 24.2 by the end of the year by its irresponsible decisions in 2018. So there's no talking about a public debt increase of more than 20% a year, as some others and others before us led this country. Why is that so important? For Serbian citizens to know, in 2013, we paid off and started to pay off this principal and interest-bearing debt that had been taken since 2008, 89 billion in 2013 only on interest, on expensive loans that someone else had taken before us, in 2014 on these same old loans 110 billion dinars only interest, in 2015 only on interest was paid by the Republic of Serbia’s budget, i.e. the citizens of Serbia paid 125 billion interest on debts that had been taken at abnormally high interest rates by those before us and thus led the country to bankruptcy. After that, in 2018, ladies and gentlemen, the total cost of interest is only 97 billion dinars, and for us it remains much, but in 2019 in the budget. which is before you, another 14 billion dinars less for interest. Only by these figures do you see the difference between our responsible economic policy, which is seen in how public debt is kept under control, and that is only one aspect of economic policy and on the other hand an irresponsible policy that has increased the public debt of our country by 20 per cent and more, thereby jeopardising the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the future of Serbian citizens. It's just one aspect and to conclude, in terms of public debt, the amount of public debt, that kind of dilemma. On the other hand, in the same period as they increase public debt by more than 20% per year, they have GDP growth, a negative growth in GDP in 2009 of 3.1%, 2010 growth 0.6%, 2011 1.4%, 2012 again negative growth in the Serbian economy of 1% per year. So, the main indicator of performance or one of the basics, apart from the rate of growth itself, is one economy's participation in public debt in GDP. Their irresponsible policy has led to the fact that the growth of public debt in absolute terms is incredibly high and that GDP is falling on the other hand. That's why Serbia was in front of bankruptcy in 2013. The results from 2018 show us this, the share of public debt in GDP fell from 77, 78, 79, as it was in 2013 and 2014, given the irresponsible decisions of previous authorities, we are now at 55.6%, the level of the Mastrict is 60%. So we are entering a completely safe zone where public debt is completely under control, where we have growth rates for the first nine months, to remind you and Serbian citizens 4.5%. So, not only does our economy grow, not only does we never invest in public infrastructure again, and despite what we invest, we continue to keep public debt under control, and that public debt, as a share in GDP, falls from year to year. As far as economic theory is concerned, not only is economic practice, for those who do not know, there is never an absolute amount of public debt in itself, it must be seen and compared to the size of the economy. You have a public debt of France of 120% or 112% compared to GDP, and Spain, Italy, too, are even bigger, so these are large economies that can bear more public debt. We want to be conservative, to be safe and we want to ensure this way that we provide a safe future for our children, that we have as little public debt and as much growth rate as possible, and that is exactly what the 2019 budget, which, to remind you, has been agreed by the members of the fiscal council who have just spoken about it. The other thing that's very important is the thing about investment. You'll allow me in the next two minutes, just read some of the most important investments, big ones, and then I'll go after the smaller ones that are very important, because there'll never be a bigger budget for us to invest, but next year. So, Kragujevac – Batocina, the highway Obrenovac – LJig, five billion, is all in the budget, let's just say the budget of the Ministry of Construction. The fast traffic station Novi Sad – Ruma, "Kelebia" loop "Subotica Jug", Surčin – Obrenovac, the construction of the highway E763, the completion of the Belgrade bridge bypass across the Sava River, Osrežnica, Bubanj stream. Construction of highway E70, shares average Red River, Ciflik, Pirot, etc. Construction of the highway E80, various reconstructions of bridges, tunnels, etc. Then I wanted to introduce you to the plan of the Public Investment Office, to see only in the Public Investment Office, never more budget than it will be in 2019, almost 10 billion dinars, where you have since the reconstruction of the KBC “Dragisa Misović”, Tiršova, Visegradska, KBC “Zemun”, “The National Front”, “GAK”, “The Radiology and Magnetic Resonance Centre”, Institute for orthopedic Surgical Diseases “Banjica” etc., to the Health Center in Arangelovac, General Hospital in Valjevo, Vranje Medical Centre, General Hospital Gornji Milanovac, Health Center Zaječar, our hospital. As you can see, year by year and month by month, they look better and we're giving out money for what's important, for the citizens of Serbia, which is that our health centres, our clinical centres, look better and provide adequate care to the citizens of Serbia, as you have the opportunity to see, the Clinical Centre in Nis is the most modern Clinical Center in this part of Europe, no one has what we have, we have built it, we opened it, unlike you haven't done anything about it. (Radoslav Milojic): All the time he shows pictures and says, "See what hospitals look like to you?" ) And another thing that is general, and there should already be a little more knowledge from economic theory and economic practice, it is very important to say in conditions where you have fiscal consolidation, in conditions where you're trying to pull the country out of those claws of bankruptcy that the previous government put us in, you don't expect high growth rates, and besides, we've had growth rates here this year, because there's almost no economy in Europe. There are a couple who are before us and there are not many of them and it is an amazing success and shows how important financial stability is to us and how much it is to further grow and develop our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49832	My friend Milojich, I beg you, what is wrong with you? What happened to you, really? (Radoslav Milojic: What happened to me? What are you asking me what happened to me? What's that look like? We're not on the street. Don't throw it away. (Goran Ciric: Replica. ) The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday someone was talking about vaccines. I think our opposition, that part there, was vaccinated against shame. They're not afraid of God, people aren't ashamed, and I believe they're worth it. They're as valuable as moles, undermining their country. They look forward to all the troubles and accidents that hit our country. They look forward to even every Serb murder in Kosovo, and the Albanian crime always wants to be attributed to Serbs. Those in Serbia do not cheer for success. You who listen to them these days, especially dear viewers, could make sure they cheered for failure. I've brought two budgets here. One from 2018 for 2019 and one from 2011 for 2012. We need to know that the state is a community of people and that each, in proportion to its abilities, is putting a certain amount of money into the budget. We can't all educate ourselves and treat ourselves, we can't all build our own path, we can't all do our own communal services, and that's what public spending is for, that's what budgets are for to provide for citizens. The citizens are the owners of the state, it was brutally ripped out of their hands, we found a completely decapitated state, without any political reputation, completely territorially broken, and they broke it down with the help of Albanians, completely crippled economically devastated and socially powerless, morally mutilated. They're giving us lectures today. That's why I'm saying they're vaccinated against shame. Let's get in line. In 2012, they raised 824 billion, in 2019 it was 1,246 billion, which is 422 billion more than in 2012. If they had shame and shame, they'd fit their ears. I can now ask – where are the work of those three and a half billion euros that they did not gather in the same state, with the same tax bases, with the same course? Where's the deed, gentlemen, the destroyers, where's the work of three and a half billion? You're saying something today. Let's see what incomes were tax, we'll see from that the standard of citizens and the state of business. It is very easy, if we are not malicious, if we are not rooting against Serbia, if we are rooting for Serbia. We will easily determine that the tax revenues for next year are 1,059 billion. They had tax revenues, I think, 750 billion. Now we can talk about where they want 300 billion proceeds? How did they share that? Who were they sharing with? Who was amnesty from paying taxes? Let's move on. The income tax was 42 billion, now 1.059. It was 42, now 1,059, thousand billion more income tax citizens, which means their income is 25 times higher than it was during their government. Let's move on. The corporate income tax was 39 billion, I hope the minister was following, that was 2012, today the corporate tax is 108 billion. It means it's bigger three times. The value added tax, and that's where we can see what consumption is, is today 539 and they had 362 billion. So that's an increase almost by double. Now I ask them, really, were they vaccinated against shame when they didn't notice this information? What are they saying? What they're saying is, the next two days I'm listening to them, that it's better to raise 824 than 1,249 billion, that it's a better budget deficit than 200 billion, as it came out at the end of 2012, and it was projected at 134, than having a surplus. They say they're better off paying and getting pensions than making money. That's what I heard. I heard it's better to have 400 fired than employees. That's what they claim. They claim that it is a better minimumer than 160 euros in 2012, than it is today 230 euros. They claim a better average salary of 320 euros than today's 430 euros. They say it's better to have a 3.5% GDP drop, as much as it was, rather than a 4% growth, as it is now. They say better exports than larger exports. They claim that better export coverage with 50% imports than today is 75%. They say it's better to have inflation and price increases of 6%, than today it's almost gone and consciousness is at 1%. They say it's better to have a growth rate a year, an average of 8%, than he's been resting for six years. They say it's better to pay less pensions out of credit than money made. That it is better to bow down and bow down than to stand up. They say it's better to give a piece of territory than try to get a piece of that territory back. They say it's better to sell state capital cheap than expensive. They say it is better to sell the company for three euros than for 120 million, as the PKK. They say it's better for the state to sell capital than to buy it and increase it. All of this could be heard from their discussions. They say it's better to cover up the thugs than to expose them. They say it is better to destroy the state of Serbia than to build it. They say it's better not to build than to build. They say it's better not to have highways than to build them. They say it's better not to have an army and a weapon than to have one. Just a reminder, they've melted 700 armored vehicles. We've had one bad plane and eagles on the flag since the air force. They say it's better not to have production than to have it. They say that subsidies in agriculture of 19 billion from 2012 are higher than subsidies today than nearly 42 billion. That's what they say. They wouldn't sow, they wouldn't plant, they'd just pick. They wouldn't even pick, they'd want us to pick it up and bring it to them. Their economic policy is as follows: the crews of the logs are going to see if it's a pig. Now, that's their economic policy and I'll tell you why I think it is. It's Mickey Mouse politics. Yesterday we heard that foreign investors should be driven away, taxes should be cut and taxes increased. Cut taxes and raise salaries and pensions. The state shouldn't take it, it should just give it. It's not supposed to be created, it's just to be taken. There should be no foreign investors to raise production. And to remind them, we do not need to subsidise them, and because of these subsidies and slightly lower personal incomes than in Europe, I must admit, we do not bring investors just to hire people and to buy new technologies and new knowledge, but to make today, tomorrow, like China and some other country, and cheap power and knowledge purchases a little better product. It's their policy and that's what I call Mickey Mouse politics. What are we supposed to do? I thank you for the subsidies for agriculture. They say 19 billion is more than 42. I have to tell them that we paid it with public debt, the minister knows, and their subsidies not paid from 2011 and 2012. We paid a public debt of 10.2 billion and a budget rebalance three years ago, which amounted to about five billion. You didn't pay for it either, but they forget that we've turned the subsidies into livestock, processing, fruit plantation, into intensive agricultural development. We don't want social services. We want to act to be in favour of production, of processing, of rural development, of what farmers in the field, of fathers, produce, of sons in processing, of processing to withdraw agricultural production, of using renewable energy sources that will be created from harvest residues and biomass. That's what we want. We want to succeed. What do they want? They don't want success. Merdevin's successes are such that you can't climb with your hands in your pockets until you're successful. They see the ladder of success as an elevator, an elevator in which they will put those hands in their pockets. They think it's a success by drinking a drink, visiting a bar. It's their policy. That's why they brought us where they brought us. That's why we were on the verge of collapse, and that's why I'm saying today, when they resent the state's progress, when they want the state's failure, they're vaccinated against shame. They're gonna throw a lot of rocks at us. It'll throw stones when we push their rock up the hill, that heavy rock we're pushing up the hill. We have been given the glory to raise the state of Serbia from the clay and mud in which they have brought it, and while we push that stone to push it out, they cheer for the stone and throw on us with new stones. We'll collect those stones, use them. Let them shoot us. We will gather all these stones and build with it a good foundation of the state, a good foundation on which we today and some even more responsible and more valuable than us will continue to build this country stone by stone. Serbia must no longer be a land of naked walls, as we found it in 2012. Serbia should compete, at least in the Balkans, with countries that are now ahead of us. I want Serbia to succeed, I want what a good host wants with his family. We want progress and prosperity. Speaking of stones, I must remind you that you must make sure that they are very dangerous people, that they are ready to side with Albanians to bring down the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You must also know that regardless of the amount of “salts, ” which comes from their ranks, from the people who rob the poor in order to re-rich Gilas, they all go to Gilas. They no longer believe in God as they believe in “the Christmas Left Hand, ” they now have the God Gilas. So they went to Gilas who bought both NUNS and the "drofocratic party", and as far as I can see, he bought "Boskica left hand", not because he was betrayed, but because "Boskić left hand" was cheap. And finally, let me tell you, Dostoyevsky said that if you stop at every dog that barks at you with stones, you will never reach the goal. That is why I advise you, regardless of the amount of "lover" to move on. They're not worth stopping, they're not worth rocking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49834	The word has Vojislav Vuuć. Here you go. (Goran Ciric: Replica, mentioned DS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49835	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49836	Just one moment. I apologize to you. Vice President Marinkovic told me you have no right to reply. (Goran Ćirić: But DS is mentioned, Risticevic mentioned. He didn't mention a single time. (Goran Ciric: I am the head of the parliamentary group. ) In accordance with the Rules of Procedure which give rise to the right to replication, no. (Goran Ciric: How is it not?) Here you go, and I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49837	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, you know what, I think the debate went well, you have no reason now on either side to sharpen this. We can continue to be constructive, the amendments are just waiting for us, so whoever has a better proposal, some can be adopted. So I'm going to ask you not to distract me. Mr. Minister, the JS parliamentary group will support this budget, all laws, decisions and agreements that are on the agenda. You said yesterday in your explanation that the basis of this budget, i.e. that this budget stands on three pillars. We from the JS would say it stands on the hockey table, because she's got those three legs, and by that we're already slow and recognizable. You know what, when it comes to hockey and that kind of thinking, believe me, he gives good results in practice. The first pillar is wages and pensions, the second pillar is capital investments and the third pillar of this budget is a set of measures for the growth of the economy and discharging it. It was not clear to me yesterday when some MPs criticised that at one point the salaries and pensions were reduced. Yesterday they criticized again when pensions and salaries were raised, and now that I'm in your position, to be honest, I don't know how I could understand it anymore. What's the fact is that the budget predicts a low deficit and it's already becoming a slow trend in Serbia, which means it's a smaller inflation, which means it's a stable course. I repeat, from JS, we support the very fact that this budget provides for an increase in pensions, an increase in salaries and an increase in the issue of agriculture. When it comes to the pensions and burdens of the oldest citizens, I must mention the gesture of Alexander Vukic who found a way to address each of these pensioners personally. I've had a chance to get a number of those people who have received that letter to contact me and to say that if I were to be on their behalf, I would express that gratitude. Here, I'm doing it now. It's a small matter, a man would say, but for all of them individually, it's a big deal. I also have no doubt that as finance minister, you will find some way to return to the future and make up for the burden the pensioners have borne. It is also good to plan subsidies for investors, because today it is harder than ever to bring an investor. It's not like that with us, it's in the region. So, for the same situation, similar measures are being fought by Croats, combating people in Bosnia, fighting Macedonia, fighting and much stronger and more serious countries in the sense that they have joined the EU earlier than we have. So any way that contributes to bringing in at least one investor, the JS parliamentary group supports. What you are also in favour of is a relatively small number of amendments submitted to the budget. I've had a chance to adopt budgets here for six years, and for the first time, to be honest, I'm surprised there's such a small number of amendments to the budget. It's a message for citizens who may not be able to track, not familiar with the full work of the Assembly, one of the evidence that this budget is a good budget. What's also good, which is, since I'm a member of the Finance Committee, the fact that Mr. Professor Pavle Petrovic defended you on the Finance Committee, did not defend you, but represented your thesis and said you were right. As someone who sublimes everything like this right now, I can tell the Minister that it's just as easy for you to get it out of hand. It means you're doing the right thing. Your plan is to spend as much as you're going to make, and that would be called a domestic business with us from JS, because that's how we operate, and that's another reason why we support a budget like this. As someone who comes from a tourist resort, I am usually from Vrnjačka Banja, I can also praise that tourism in Serbia is on the rise and I am glad that I also saw in this budget that there are defined means for vouchers, which will be used by citizens of Serbia when they go to or outside the season. Today, I have a habit of criticizing one of my colleagues, and I'm not going to do it today, and I'm not going to criticise the president of Vranjska Banja municipality today, but I want to give you a little piece of advice. Mr. Minister, can I give you some advice, so I'd like you to give me an answer if it's possible in the end? This applies to you and Branko Ruzic, I think you should do one analysis, a parallel analysis of all the cities and municipalities in Serbia, and see who these cities and municipalities are helping you, helping the government to realize the budget, helping to create a larger surplus, and who these municipalities, which, let's say so, are making that deficit. Not all municipalities and cities are in the same position to understand each other. The municipalities and cities that are hard to live in, not now, but back maybe 50, 60 years from them, we can't expect a big step. You should certainly note and commend the mayors and presidents of municipalities who are working to increase that surplus. Why am I telling you this? I have a feeling that in some situations the budget is one of those mayors or the president of the mother municipality, someone's a stepmom. So you have to reward the people who work. I today do not refer to Dragan Markovic Palm as an example because the president of my party JS, not because he is the head of the JS parliamentary group, but because the man who managed to make Jagodina a tourist centre in a place that was never a tourist site, which made a good industrial zone. In the industrial zone, a lot of investors have appeared who are doing serious production. Dragan Markovic made an effort in every delegation to watch out, as someone who runs the city, not a minister, as someone who runs the city, in every delegation around Europe and the world where there has been some new market for our products. That's why I don't understand when yesterday one of the opposition's colleagues said no, the surplus isn't good, it's not good to surprise you with the surplus. I'm totally confused. They say – they need to make plans so that they are balanced. I couldn't agree more. I'd always make it a worse plan, and it'd be a better realization. What does it mean when you're surprised by the surplus? So the economy managed to make one step, that these new markets that I was talking about earlier resulted in a higher ranking of our goods, and that's reflected in the budget. So I'm telling you, do that analysis with Mr. Ruzic and see who the cities in Serbia are making surpluses, how many there are, how to reward these people. Such people need a budget to come out and give them money, because they make two out of the dinars. When you give someone who can't do household behavior, they make that dinar a zero. Political stability is certainly a very important factor in the realisation of the budget and in the economy, and I can say that Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic, in their work in the environment, in the world, in all countries that loved us more or less, managed to create a good and new image for Serbia. One of the similar visits is that of Dragan Markovic Palma, you had the opportunity to see it, in Egypt, when Egypt said and accepted that it would not support Kosovo's entry into Interpol and when they agreed to support Serbia's policy now. Citizens in a joke say Ivica Dacic has already convinced so many countries not to admit so-called. Independent Kosovo and Dacic, if this continues to cancel his diplomatic recognition, so-called. Independent Kosovo will remain only Haradinaj and Thaci with Kurc to support Kosovo. I mean the Chancellor of Austria. Political stability has definitely caused, and that's what Mr. Antic was saying yesterday, it's not there today, but yesterday he explained his laws well, which is, above all, his portfolio and the fact that with the big projects that we're going to be classing ourselves from JS, we're talking about South Stream, because in the people's most recognizable stream of gas pipelines that are working, it's going to be much easier in the energy policy that Serbia is going to run. Among these laws is the Act on the working time of the crew of the vehicle in road transport and tachographs. Yesterday, Minister Vulin said at one point that doctors are leaving Serbia. Yes, doctors leave, but it is also a trend in the surrounding countries, leaving Croatia, leaving some EU members. Everyone's looking for a position where they can make more money. Of course, the government is trying to keep the measures that are being implemented to a minimum, and that is the wish of all of us who are dealing with politics here. When it comes to this law that I said, we also have the fact that drivers, truck drivers and bus drivers are leaving, you know it best here in Belgrade. And you, as someone who was a responsible mayor, know what could cause it. That's why it's a good thing we're passing one of these laws, because this law is starting to protect these people, to make their jobs easier. Even some benefites have been defined when it comes to night labor. I submitted my time today a little more, of course, to the Budget Law, but certainly, as most colleagues here today have spoken, I will say. We have local elections in Doljevac, local elections in Luciani, so I have the right to say that JS goes out on its own in both municipalities. You know, on the question of citizens in Luciani – what needs to be done, how to fix a situation, Dragan Markovic Palma said – you know what, well, Luciani have their own visibility for a serious factory that is known to everyone, but it's definitely something that is the brand of the region, but not just the brand of the region, Guca became a brand of Serbia. One simple thing that doesn't cost much. Dragan Markovic made a proposal – people, so let another event be made if it works so well with you. What do I mean? That sometimes you don't need money, you're missing good ideas. We're all going to be working a little bit harder. I said at first, which is less important now, that I'm the opposition in the place I come from, but I'm not an opposition to the place where I live. I tried to provide a vehicle through Dragan Markovic Palma to facilitate the operation of the municipal services in Vranjska Banja. I've tried here to make our dialysis department work and all the different donations we've made. I therefore propose to the people sitting on the right, and they are in the position of the opposition today to you who represent these laws, to make little effort, to bring in some investor too, to provide a country that will not recognise Kosovo or anything else. There are so many things that can be helped. So once again, Minister, your budget is domestic, as we say from JS, raises pensions, raises wages, increases agricultural isolation. And in an individual debate and my colleagues will take part in this, so we'll talk more specifically about all the other laws. Once again, we support this budget and we will vote for all the laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49838	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49839	Thank you very much. Let me just answer the question you asked. The finance ministry, together with the ministry run by Mr Ruzic, monitors daily and controls the implementation of the budget of all local self-government in the republic of Serbia. We know exactly if and who achieves the deficit or surplus at all times, which is very important. What these figures show is important for both you and the citizens of Serbia, as new factories are opened, and thank God, there are more and more in Serbia, as new jobs are being opened in all these cities and local self-governments. So, you see the trend in their budgets, that they have more income than taxes and contributions to employees, which is the healthiest way to finance one budget, the longest. Now the basis is slowly created for these local self-governments to already plan some new investments, some new investments in their, say, municipal infrastructure and all that perhaps for years they couldn't do without the help of the state, and in the coming period we as a state are focusing on these large infrastructure projects that are important for the whole country, so both highways and bridges, tunnels, railways, etc. So, if you need those data at any point, we'll share them with you, see how we monitor from month to month the budget and the budget status of all local self-governments in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49840	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49841	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers and fellow MPs, we had opportunities yesterday and today to hear a lot about the debate on the budget and following the laws, and in fact the characteristics of this budget are between the needs of the citizens of Serbia and the ability of the state to respond to these needs of citizens. What is important is to say that the SNS recognized the needs of citizens, but in line with the possibilities and all those debts it has had over the past years and solved in an extremely responsible way through economic reforms and fiscal consolidation made up this budget. What is important is that for the first time since these four, five years in which we have carried out heavy reforms, when it comes to Serbia's economy, we have this conceived budget on the highly conservative parameters, which is 3.5% of the planned growth for next year, then, 2.3% of the inflation rate and the deficit of 0.5% of GDP. Yesterday we had a chance to hear that the surplus in the budget wasn't a good economic category. Let me remind you that some countries regularly had surpluses in certain public finances, such as. Japan, and then at a time when it came to a major, catastrophic economic situation, due to elemental disasters, it just had a precisely defined controlled deficit. It is not true, therefore, that the surplus comes from misplanned public finances, but rather what Serbia has done and for what it has really praised from all international institutions has collected debts from the past years, especially when it comes to revenues in the budget from certain taxpayers. And that's why today when we talk about the quiet waters of public finances, it's a big deal. It means that you have managed through economic reforms to arrange, to arrange your finances, to make them sustainable, to make as much as you earn, as much as you spend, but that those debtors who worked at the expense of this state and all citizens of Serbia, and in collaboration with those who ruled until 2012, managed to introduce them to operate under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. This means that there are no more tycoons to design the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but there is a law and we are all the same before that law. What is important when we talk about the 2019 budget, is what does the budget bring to the citizens of Serbia? Such a good, balanced budget, which speaks of an equal basis for income, that it can spend and increase wages and pensions, while at the same time able to provide large funds for capital investments, also says that this is one of the most important conditions for opening new jobs, for opening new factories, but also for continuing to increase wages and pensions and increasing the overall growth of our economy. It is not true that, when we talk about growth, Serbia is a minority, when you listen to some MPs here, in the last place. There is one World Bank study, when it comes to the comparison of Western Balkan countries in general, and simply when it talks about Serbia, it is just saying that Serbia has achieved an estimated economic growth that has indeed been undetected, especially when we are looking at growth rates since 2008. It stands on your side in 69th and says that economic growth has continued to encourage job creation and better labour market outcomes. Significant fiscal adjustment resulted in a record low fiscal deficit of 1.4% and 2012 and that the improvement in the results of the banking sector is also one of the conditions that led to the growth. A gradual increase in growth has been foreseen and says that by 2019 it should be 3.5%. Serbia managed to come out with a 4.2% growth. Therefore, do not put some information simply into the public who do not have a foothold. Because the evaluations made by certain international institutions are exclusively estimates that this is something they plan for Serbia and then when the actual state of affairs is established that Serbia does much better, even with record results, they are all surprised. It was the same thing when the IMF planned for 2016 growth of 1.8%, and that's what the Fiscal Council wrote, so we went out with a growth of 2.6%. The same thing stands for 3.5% growth for 2018, so we got to 4.2%. Therefore, it is not necessary to disavow citizens of Serbia in public that there is no improvement in Serbia's economy, as citizens see it around them. Is that enough for every citizen person and his house? Of course not. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in general the Serbian parliament, helps create a better economic policy and a better economic environment to create an even greater number of factories, an even greater number of jobs. The prime minister at the head of the government insists that we move on to an investment-based economy, an innovation-based economy, knowledge-based economy, and that this particular economic growth would go from 4.2% to a high growth rate next year. Where were we in 2012, where are we today? You can see for yourself, especially, not only when it comes to economic results, but the everyday life of citizens. When we talk about that growth and when we're talking about income and expenditure structure in general, especially budget expenditure for next year's agriculture, then we can say that in 2012, there was a withdrawal from the budget of 19 billion dinars. The planned allocations for next year are 41.5 billion dinars. So double the planned budget for something like this. We're getting into a situation where, let's say, we have proposals from our colleagues at PUPS who say that's not enough. The minister is always open to talks on this subject, and when we talk about agricultural cooperatives, we should say that the SNS is the first to propose the Cooperative Act, which was passed two years ago, which those who led the state by 2012, were not even talking about, nor were they considering something like this. What we really think is the need to support agricultural cooperatives, and I think we're going to see that we're going to help in the interview and with the finance minister. The minister is really always open to talking, and I think that this changes significantly the picture of it and Serbia as to how Serbia's budget should look for next year. The story of changing the methodology of the Bureau of Statistics, so based on it now we're playing with numbers here, just not standing. The European Union has its International Statistics Institute, called Eurostat, and it dictates in fact statistics, how certain things should be viewed in the economy and how to read numbers, and precisely because they would have an adequate partner, when they talk in general about credit lines and the Central European Investment Bank and all countries, not only EU members, but also those who want to be members of the EU, which are countries of the Western Balkans. So, pensions and salaries, I think they talked a lot about today, about raising wages and pensions, about the fiscal council having its own criticism about what they pay for in the state sector is 7%. It should not be forgotten that they are reduced 10%. I think that part of an increase of 7% is adequate, that somewhere it's given the advantage of pensions just to raise them to a much higher level than 8 to 13%. What's more important to say is that the criticism at the level of investment and investment in capital investment, which is 220 billion dinars this year, and that should be 300, simply shows that we've been led that way that we should go into as much investment as possible, but that not everything can be done at once. You cannot disburse employers for taxes and contributions in terms of 63 to 60%, of 3%, because it amounts to 36 billion dinars of less revenue in the budget. The finance ministry has put forward a 1% discharge proposal, and that's 12 billion dinars of less revenue in the budget. Therefore, it should be realistic. When we say that in six years we have succeeded, as a state, to transform our economy where there has been stagnation and a decline in the entire economy, to a high rate of economic growth in growth, a reduction in inflation, into a half-percent in general when it comes to unemployment. This budget brings one security and predictability to all Serbian citizens, not only employers, but each of us. When we talk at all about the work relating to concrete projects, we have had the opportunity to see that strategic projects will really be funded by the country next year and what concerns energy, but I think a great focus is given to health care, health institutions, and that's what's important, but I would say that for the first time the support of women in the promotion of women's innovative entrepreneurship, and for which more than 100 million dinars are given for next year, and for the promotion and popularity of innovation, the innovation enterprise with 60 million dinars. This is actually the strategic goal towards which we are going, and that is that all projects in the future really need to be supported by one global process of digitisation, in general by the economy and education. This Ministry of Education is really doing huge steps in which you can't see concrete results now, because what you start can only be seen for a certain number of years as concrete results. What's important to say, for the first time, is that now double the amount of pensions is being allocated from Serbia's budget. This means that the PIO Fund does indeed work in an extremely responsible and good way and that taxes and contributions are brought together by all economic operators, which means that the economy is working. All those who claim that this does not exist and that these indicators are very small simply want in a malicious way to minimise the work of the Serbian government in general, starting in 2012, starting in 2014, and when the SNS took part in the Serbian government and when it had Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, and now the president of the state, and now having Mrs. Ana Brnabic. I think the speed that Serbia is moving, when it comes to the economy at all, is unstoppable. It is important to say that we have political challenges that can simply affect the lives of all of us the next day and I think that what we are doing is ultimately responsible, it is that criticism is directed, the Fiscal Council, that much is invested in the military shows a malicious fact and an attempt to say that Aleksandar Vukic is hammering his weapon and therefore wants to lead his policy, a war policy. I'll tell you one fact that you all probably know a lot about, but you don't want to talk about it. The country's investment in the dedicated industry is a major contribution to the country's export strategy. And you know that Serbia has always led to this when it comes to the dedicated industry. This gives us greater income in general when it comes to taxes and contributions to the budget. And don't transfer this kind of good economic strategy to a policy field where you want to deal with your political inexperiences, with SNS and Mr. Vukic, in this way, scaring the citizens of Serbia about how this is why a budget like this was actually made and given to the military and police. I think it's very important to say it here in parliament so the citizens know the real truth. For all questions, of course, there is always a need to answer and react, and I think that this budget of Serbia should bring peace and stability in the coming year when it comes to the lives of all Serbian citizens. Of course, we're going to talk about this budget and all of the suggestions we've come up with when it comes to agriculture and maybe change and supplementing some of the laws, maybe through certain amendments to the Committee, but I have to congratulate you all, Mr. Minister. I think for the first time we have a budget like this that will really give, to ensure that the needs of Serbian citizens meet as much as possible. In voting day, the SNS will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49842	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first speaker is Ambassador Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49843	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the budget is concerned, it's a good thing we have serious separations for infrastructure in the Sandzak area, especially funds for the construction of the Novi Pazar-Tutin road, where we've been very busy for the past two years. It is also very good that we also have the means to continue the construction of pipelines via Kopalnik to Tutina, which is of strategic importance for all development projects in that area, as is good that we have increased resources for social assistance. So, this is something that is very important for the areas where we have a very bad economic and social situation, with regard to social isolation and specifically for social work centres in the Tutina and Novi Pazar area, I want to draw attention to the fact that these two centres are actually the site of organised crime and abuses and funds for social giving, but also all other activities related to divorce proceedings, jurisdiction over child rearing, etc. That is why I call upon the competent authorities, above all, the competent ministry to send inspections and examine the state and abuses that have really gone beyond. So, what's my backup is a matter of electing a prosecutor. So in Novi Pazar, especially so far, practice has shown that we do have a situation where most of the elected prosecutors and their deputies are influenced by certain political but still the worst criminal groups. It's something that, I mean, gets caught up in the strategic foundations of the survival of citizens and peoples in that space. So I would draw attention when it comes to the choice of prosecutors to step up control and check these people so we don't get prosecutors and judges of organised crime and crime associates at all. As far as gambling law is concerned, therefore, it is a serious shift that we are now going to have an inspection address for this topic. Finally, at the ministry, we'll get that administration and the ability to control the application of the law. Unfortunately, we are now in chaos, especially in the area of the New Market. There's absolutely no respect for the law. Gamblers are a few meters from schools, religious facilities. We used to say it had to be rectified. Of course, we will only be satisfied when the law is passed that will completely end gambling. As for the Bosniak National Council, the current topic that is inevitable, the topic is over. We have a situation where Sulejman Ugljanin clearly presented his programme under the title "Self-determination" with the antrophy that Serbia is a fascist creation. He won the majority in the council with the support of the country's Deputy Prime Minister. If that's the government's position, if that's the position of this House, why would that be a problem for me? We will simply let them implement their policy and that is something that is a real state. On the other hand, what we heard today, especially from fellow Imamovic, I must admit that I am a athlete, accept challenges, compete in various fields, but there is one discipline in which I cannot compete with them, discipline who will continue to spit and who will mudder more. I give up, I really can't be like them and I won't. As far as their honesty is concerned, I won't say anything. I will ask their current allies in the party Rasim Ljajic, who, after coming to power in Novi Pazar, made a report on the millions of kevaks that Ugljaninov had eaten officially, about the plot to build the Ugljanin house, about the funds to build the Ugljanin house, about all the plots they had at the time. That report exists. Therefore, they have now shut up after they have agreed, as the Ugljanins have silenced on the assassination charges, a known assassination by the current partner. I'll just leave it between them, and these reports are available, so we can get them. I thank you, and I'm ready for further cooperation. We'll support most of the law, except for the gambling reserve. For spiritual ethical reasons, we cannot vote for that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49844	Thank you. The Ambassador of Nenad Christmas has a word. Ambassador Vojislav Vujic has a word. The Ambassador of Alexander Chabrai has a word. Ambassador Dejan Radenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49845	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope you won't mind me making a digression, and it is conditioned by the need to look back at some of the arguments from the discussion during the discussion on the proposal for the 2018 budget, because I and the SPS parliamentary group are proud of the conclusions that we made at the time, which we came to exactly one year ago, which were presented in this home. If something could be concluded from the analysis of the budget that the current assembly majority has adopted in recent years, it is, as I often know to say, a country is not a trotinette that can be easily stopped and then turned in a different direction, with the elimination of serious consequences. However, if a large ship slowly turns around, the results must arrive. The conduct of public finances by a serious state which is recognised as such by its serious world, starts with the EU, through the IMF, the World Bank, Russia, China and many other countries and organisations, particularly the recovery of public finances is a process that does not take place in a budget cycle, which has reached its logical epilogue after five years of reform. We can freely say that we have a balanced budget, GDP growth, the start of reducing tax and non-tax burdens on the economy, and all I could say, which I could safely conclude this exposure is to say – we have succeeded, but let's still get into the analysis a little bit and during the debate in principle. The first thing we can say as a serious and governmental party is that budget revenues are very realistically forecasted. We have more work to do up to a completely transparent budget, but there's a lot of progress here, as well as a budget calendar. We are a country of rapid and extensive reforms and on the European path, which means legislative activity at the upper limit of possible. The assumptions on which the budget is based are realistic GDP growth of 3.5% with an average annual growth of 2.3%, the expected growth rate is, as we can see from 3.5% is realistic, as it is the same forecast of the IMF and represents only a return to the economic situation, since somewhat exhausted effects of a low base from the previous year. GDP growth was then low due to the poor agricultural season, the decline of energy products and construction works. For future rapid and significant growth, structural changes are necessary, and part of them is currently in a large set of reliefs and incentives for the economy. The current trend in growth is higher than the rate of growth that the Serbian economy had in the previous decade, but we can still say that we have a problem to activate all the resources of this society. The main reason for this is the low rate of domestic investment and therefore the improvement of the economic environment is crucial for their significant increase. Of course, at this session we will also adopt some of the laws that will help. Let's talk about tax revenues. They are largely objectively assessed, under the condition of achieving expected growth, which is difficult to question, and the nominal revenues of the Republic budget for 2019 are only higher by only 2% compared to the estimates of the budget for the previous year, while in real terms we can see that they are the same, i.e. Equal. On the other hand, expenditure is higher by 5%, i.e. in real terms by 3%, in other words, most of the fiscal space achieved by higher budget revenues due to the development of the economy was used to increase wages and pensions, which we as socialists support, taking into account years of freezing and reducing wages and pensions. Tax revenues are scattered, and this can be seen from VAT. No significant reduction in tax revenues has been planned, resulting from the abolition of the profit reduction policy, as these funds have been paid into the budget and bookkeeping as non-tax revenue. A large tax reduction has two key measures. The first is the reduction of parafiscal burdens through the adoption of a new law on compensation that will reduce public revenues by two billion dinars. The second measure is to abolish social contributions to insurance in case of unemployment on the employer's burden, which 0.75% of GDP will cost the state about nine billion dinars. We can say that this total fiscal burden will be reduced by 100m euros, a great start to continue with. The expenditures of the Republic budget show a clear direction of success that does not change. Staff expenditure has been nominally increased by more than 8% and in real terms around 6%. This, of course, is due to the increase in public sector earnings, which is slightly bigger growth than GDP growth, but it is still difficult to preserve the public sector as a successful business service, while our employees are 13 pigs. The largest growth recorded expenditures for subsidies that were nominally increased by 12% compared to 2018 from 89 to over 100 billion dinars, i.e. From 750 to 840m euros. Almost all costs for subsidies have been increased, so far subsidies are bringing us results, we can see that, especially those for foreign direct investment and investment, for all those purposes set aside a record 125m euros. The most positive measure in the new budget is a significant increase in capital expenditure by 128 billion dinars, i.e. 1.8 billion euros at 165.5 billion dinars. Public investment in Serbia has been below the level of comparable countries in Eastern and Central Europe for years, and our infrastructure situation is not at an enviable level, so we will not give up further infrastructure development. The minister will also have the opportunity to see one of my amendments that I do not expect will be accepted, but I just wanted to draw attention to a capital investment that began years ago. It is the accumulation of Selov near Kursumlia, one of a dozen unfinished in the Republic of Serbia. It is over 95% finished and we can say that it is one of the most important resources and that the end of this dam solves the long-term supply of water to the Toplic district and the city of Nis. It is very important that this will solve the problem of floods that almost every year destroy crops in this poorest agricultural part of Serbia. I hope we can find somewhere in the perspective where we can re-launch this project and finish it by the end, which is very important and strategically important for that end. Of course, we have a lot of good expectations, I've already said, balanced finance, we can think about the developmental item for the next one. We are smiling at the perspective of higher reduced tax rates and the expansion of the tax base. I point out that we are done with the ungrateful role we had in the days that are far behind us. It's time to create, not save. I would say as a socialist that this government has a strict ban on irrational spending, that we are really in the blue ocean where there is peace, that we have the opportunity to be part of a family of successful nations, and that some of the interstate we were in, where we didn't know what we wanted, or where we're not, is no longer on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, at the very end, I will say that the SAA supports this bill and all the draft laws that are on the agenda, of course, are the most significant budgets, because it is leading us in an unequivocally direction which is our long-term goal, all of us sitting in this room and the goal of all those who see Serbia as a regulated and prosperous European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49846	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49847	I thank the president. I don't know why, but yesterday when I was talking to Sinisha Mali, he wasn't in the O.R., and he's not here right now. I'd really like someone to answer any of the questions I asked. Maybe he doesn't like me, maybe he doesn't have any answers to any questions, because yesterday I didn't hear a single word about who answered what I was discussing about the budget here. So I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday about how you plan the 2019 budget. Of course, the essence of policy, the essence of priority is that it is directed towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have not seen, nor has anyone convinced me that the 2019 budget will in any way make Serbian citizens any better, even if we are talking about a profit increase in the budget this time. So this budget has no chance of making economic growth in 2019, because there is no investment above all, in infrastructure at a satisfactory level. This is a pre-election budget, a budget that you want to buy the Serbian citizens' votes for the elections you are likely to organise in 2019 and, of course, when you are making the pre-election budget, there is no indication of any growth in terms of the economy. When the Minister speaks of GDP growth, he repeatedly misses the opportunity to say that in this year, GDP will be about 4% or over 4%, that it is based on the fact that last year we had the smallest GDP growth in Europe 1.8%. So, Serbia's cumulative growth in 2012-2017 is 5.25%, GDP has globally increased by 23%, four times higher. That's because you've been running the wrong economic policy for seven years. This is the seventh budget of your government that you want to talk to and fairy tales about convincing Serbian citizens that they will live better, that they will welcome that salary of 500 euros in September and those 405 euros, 405 very far from 500, even this increase from 2019 will be difficult to get there. That's what I'm talking about. The economy has paid twice as much. You tell the pensioners you'll raise their pensions. The minister is talking again today about how pensions will never be bigger. Welcome, Mr. Minister, finally. He announced that pensions would be higher by 8.8 to 13.5% or as much as already, those pensioners who had more luck than others got the same check as last 2014 before the cuts, those who had less luck received a smaller pension. In doing so, 8.6% of the cost of life has jumped in Serbia. So that's your policy. Then you sent them letters and you said -- great, thank you for giving us 800m euros to have us with that money any way we want and to throw them away for nothing, because we haven't seen anything since fiscal consolidation. Where is the reform of public enterprises? The 14.5 billion railways again in this budget and last year 14 billion railways. So that's the policy. Then you say that GDP, or, I apologize, how public debt falls. Well, it's not going down, Mr. Minister, and I'm very glad you just admitted that Serbia's public debt in 2018 was 24.2 billion and that in 2012, it was 15 billion, that's what you just said. So, for nine billion, you owe Serbia and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia seven years of the wrong economic policy. This is the seventh budget and you still do not understand that you are doing the wrong thing, that your economic concept is bad, that you are poor economic policy, that by bringing cable braiders in Serbia to develop your economy, you will not be able to raise Serbia's GDP. When you talk about GDP growth, you often say it was negative in 2009. You forget to say, Mr. Minister, that in 2008, growth was 5.37, 2007 5.89, 2006 4.9%, 2005 5%, 2004 Serbia was second in Europe to GDP growth by 9.05%, 2002 was the first with 7.12%. Aleksandar Vukic announced that we will have one of the first three results for GDP growth. You reduced Serbia's public debt compared to GDP by changing the accounting methodology. You have made a new GDP assessment for this year, and the revision was made by the Republic Statistics Institute and thus the public debt, which was over 60% compared to GDP in June, fell to 56% in September. And now you're telling us about 51, how? How when there is no growth, when your smallest growth is at least wages in the region by all economic parameters, only Macedonia is behind us on salaries and Macedonia's growth last year was higher than Serbia's growth? So the completely wrong economic concept is not good news for Serbia. Of course, when you talk about increasing the agricultural budget, first return what you owe to farmers from 2018. When you pay for it, this increase of 7.6 billion will melt. The only good news is that you've cut Tommy Nikolic's budget by eight million, 17.6%, so at least use that money for money to tear down this illegal object on the bathroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49848	Time, thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49849	A representative of Vuk Jeremic said he had not heard the answers to some of his questions and observations given yesterday, and was also answered by the present minister and representatives of our parliamentary group. It is not for nothing – it is hard to give answers to someone whose wages depend on him not to hear them. That's not what I said, but that's exactly right. What he's saying, he says -- it won't be better now that there's an increase in wages and pensions, and now watch out, pay 7% to 12%, and pensions are already up 8% to 13%. If for them, happiness for the citizens of Serbia is not good, it is their private matter, but that they claim that it is not good for citizens to have a higher salary and a higher pension, so I think it will be a great thing for citizens to assess it tomorrow when they re-evaluate them. For example, in these local elections they can't go out to, because they can't put together a list or on these ones where they're going to go out, but it'll pass as if they didn't put together a list without any problems. But, therefore, that it is not good for the citizens, and good for them, it is quite clear. Those with citizens haven't been the same for a long time. They say -- growth isn't good, 4.2 in the plus isn't good, and those minus 3.1 or 3.6, anyway, that was good, right? It will be the same for citizens in these elections you won't even be allowed to appear in. What they say next – the wrong economic policy. These geniuses already told the IMF that the IMF has no idea, they have already told the World Bank that they have no idea either, they also told the European Commission that they don't know anything. Only those great geniuses, who have left Serbia in dust and ashes, understand each other in the economy. They say, to return something to the farmers, to return something to the agriculture. Here, specifically, this genius can freely return that famous tractor that's received from these programs intended for our agriculture. If there's anything to come back to, it's always welcome to start by yourself. They say -- pre-election budgets, pre-election programmes. If they're fascinated by the election, it's perfectly clear, you know what scares them the most. But, watch out, the purchase of votes, the first category of purchase, must be discussed directly with Vuk Jeremic, he knows the most about it, to explain to his associates how he was bought, for as much as for what. Here, in New York, it has, it has, it has, it says, it has been saying that for various marifettelukes with world combinations it gets millions, so corruption promotes it, it encourages it, and it has been sent by the state of Serbia, and paid for by the state of Serbia to represent the state out there what it did...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49850	MP, thank you, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49851	No problem, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49852	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49853	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I must refer to a few of the lies or misunderstandings I have heard, which are related to the 2019 budget. I quote, "There is nowhere in the budget to be seen where citizens will be better." Once again, if anyone hasn't heard in the meantime, I'd like to read that in the 2019 budget, 563.2 billion dinars will be allocated. So 35 billion dinars more than 2018 to pay out pensions that will never be higher, 35 billion dinars. Of course, it is necessary to know and compare two figures, but for Serbian citizens this information is very important. On the other hand, the increase in public sector wages between 7% and 12%, an additional 33 billion dinars. The total salary fund of the general government in 2019 will be 501.7 billion dinars. This should be added to the increase and increase of the minimum labour price from 1 January by 8.6%. So the minimum rate of work per hour increases from 143 to 155 dinars. The total minimum wage rises to over 27 thousand dinars. It is further how and how Serbian citizens will be better off. So we have bigger salaries, we have bigger pensions, we have a higher minimum labour price, and on the other hand we try to make sure through a set of reform laws the economy is even more competitive and even more attractive so that wages can grow in 2019. I am referring here to the abolition of certain fees through the Law on Refunds and a whole series of tax reliefs that are ahead of you in the laws that you should vote on through the historic reduction of income burdens, which cost the state of Serbia 12 billion dinars, which are more likely to remain businesses and businesses to invest, to develop, to employ new workers. Thus, it is absolutely clear that the 2019 budget has a strong social aspect aimed at raising and increasing the living standards of the population. As for the rate of growth, I will again, not my problem, but I have read it, I will repeat it now, unlike those who ran from the IMF and who did not want the IMF to be in Serbia, we, together with the IMF, define our economic policy which is always our own, but they are there to see whether we are right or not, and where together with them we define and project the growth rate and projection of the public debt and every element of this budget. So for 2018, not only the IMF projection, but also the European Commission, I will read again, this is real GDP growth, the Eurostat source, so the European Statistics Institute, Albania 4.1, Bosnia 3.0, Bulgaria 3.5% real GDP growth, Croatia 2.8, Macedonia 2.1, Montenegro 3.9, Romania 3.6. We have 4.5% for the first nine months, so more than any country I have mentioned, you have more, the Czech Republic 3.0%, Slovenia 4.3%, about the rate of growth we estimate will have by the end of the year. So definitely the Serbian economy is on the right path to recovery, on a stable path to growth and development and this growth rate, not only ours, but when compared to countries in the environment, it clearly shows that we are on the right track. On public debt, I will mention that again, given that it was a comment. So, just before I spoke to you, I was not reading relative public debt relations, but absolute in billions of euros, as the previous government of 8.8 billion euros in 2008 reached 23 billion euros at the end of 2014 or 20.1 billion euros at the end of 2013. This is what cost us as a state interest, I can repeat that in 2013 alone, we paid 89 billion dinars of interest to expensive loans the previous government took. In 2014, we paid 110 billion dinars in the name of interest the previous government took, in 2015, the record 125 billion dinars. I can only tell you, and you know as much as the school, hospital and new buses can build for 125 billion dinars that we paid for the expensive loans and interest that the previous government took. Next year, so already in 2018, we have 97 billion dinars that we pay for interest, and 14 billion less next year. So, never less. It shows how much we've changed, how much less we owe ourselves, how much, fortunately, we quickly deprive ourselves of the debts left by the previous government to give our children a safer and better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49854	Thank you. Replica, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49855	Thank you, President. I have no doubt that the minister is much better and that everyone who rules this budget today in 2019 will bring an even better life, but if you came down among the people, you would see how citizens live today and shoot skin at their backs than all of your good measures. The minister obviously doesn't know that since 2012 you've been in power. You said the biggest debt was made from 2008 to 2014. You probably don't think the Socialists are your partners, because then Ivica Dacic was prime minister, from 2012 to 2014. When you talk about this growth of GDP this year, you forgot to say, again, I remind you that it is based on last year's growth of 1.8% and was then much lower than all these countries you mentioned, which is: in Montenegro 4.2%, Albania 3.9%, Bulgaria 3.6%, Croatia 2.8%, Bosnia 2.7%, and Serbia 1.8%. The overall GDP of Serbia can today be compared to the Ivory Coast, the Congo, Turkmenistan and some other countries. When you refer to the IMF and all these other institutions, your president and your chief chief, since you are all here to listen to what he tells you, therefore none of you are doing the job, although he is professional for him, as he should, he is calling for a CIA report published to all the countries of the world and said what are Serbia's advantages, as the CIA stated, but that report selectively presented it. He forgot to say a few things, which is that according to the CIA report, unemployment in Serbia is 16%, well below the average in the European Union and that the share of public debt in GDP was 71% in 2017, while you were showing it at the same time with 61%. So that's the data, so answer me - who's lying, whether he's lying to the CIA, President Vukic or you're not telling the truth? Someone here isn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49856	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49857	I would just once again, for not understanding economic policy, to clarify. During fiscal consolidation, a period of reform, you do not usually expect your GDP to grow. During 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, when the Republic of Serbia had negative growth rates, even minus 3.1% in 2009, was a negative GDP growth rate, and no reforms were implemented, we had a growth rate of 2.0% last year, a year before that, if I'm not mistaken, 3.3%, just to check, 3.3% in 2016, completely unexpected in terms of fiscal consolidation. Last year and this year, when we finish fiscal consolidation, you have one boom at our growth rate going to 4.5% for the first nine months. So, despite fiscal consolidation, we are achieving growth rates. In 2009, 2010, when we had low or negative growth rates, we had no reform, but it speaks more about economic policy then than we do now. I don't know what CIA, MIA, bia you're calling. What matters to me is always the IMF, the World Bank and the European Commission, and according to that data and these numbers, we are absolutely one of the leading economies in terms of growth rates in Europe. Finally, once again, Serbia's citizens may be interested, and also for you, honourable MPs, I think the difference in one economic policy is also seen on the minimum labour price. I just said that the minimum labour price from 1 January 2019 will be higher by 8.6%. Let's see how the minimum labour price was moving in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. The minimum earnings in 2008 were 70 dinars per hour, in 2008, 78, 2009 – 87, 2010, when a negative growth rate was realized, the previous government raised the minimum labour price by three dinars, so from 87 to 90 dinars, and then in 2010 from 90 to 95 dinars, so, by five dinars, by five dinars, and by 2012 from 102 dinars to 115 dinars, 2014 the minimum labour price continues to rise, this year it is 143 dinars, the following year it is 155 dinars. The minimum labour price is 42% higher now compared to 2012. It is an indicator of improvement, and it is an indicator that shows how responsible the states are, because these are all government decisions, treats citizens and where part of the improvement that is achieved is also shifted to a minimum labour price increase. These are exact data, can be checked in any institution and show enough about the seriousness and responsibility of an economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49858	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49859	I don't know if that's what the CIA mentioned, but there's anything interesting to read in those WikiLeaks, for example. about the Wolf of Jeremiah. If you knew, Mr. Minister, what's in there, we could talk the whole session about who's been doing and what who's been talking, but since we're talking about lying, it's right in those dispatches that Jeremy was boasting to foreign diplomats that he had to lie to the people here to defend Kosovo as something, and in fact it was for the needs of an election campaign. That's what it says. Maybe the CIA took part in it, too, I don't know. I agree that a lie is wrong and that people who lie should not be trusted. Why does it matter? Well, here it is, right on the subject of this corruption scandal involving Wolf Jeremic. You remember when the first information came out. He goes on TV and starts to wonder if he was funded by a private company from China or some of its institutes and he says – well, yes, both. It's been two months now, he says -- no, that institute didn't fund me, for the first time in my life I've heard of them, I haven't won a dinar from them. Then he went to New York, and he said, "Yes, I took part in it, and I received money for it, and I connected it, and you mentioned some of the countries of Africa for a moment." Did you mention Chad and Uganda, since the Vuk Jeremic with them seems to have an excellent experience? He says -- I've connected these people who compromised there, who were blackmailing, who were giving money illegally acquired for various business variants and illegal arms trade, some people who represented both Chad and Uganda and Senegal, etc. He's given it all up nicely. If we're wondering who's lying and why, then it's completely clear, it's a lie when it comes to someone's skin and it's a lie when it comes to big money. At the very end, how do you do business? These people know best how they did business, they know best about each other. Remember when Dragan Gilas said it was a shame for Vuk Jeremic to spend seven and a half million euros in New York for a year, how did he respond? He says -- well, it's not a shame, but even if it were true, I could say that we could be in New York for 60 years for the price of a bridge on Ada, without access to traffic. How much does it come when it's multiplied and what did Jeremic tell us, Gilas? It was $420 million without access to traffic. I believe he had good information, because, once again, they know each other best, even though, of course, it's about liars in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49860	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49861	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft budget for 2019 and I would especially like to highlight what the proposal for 2019 provides and what will particularly reflect the quality of life of all our citizens. When it comes to capital projects, there is indeed a record amount for this position – 200 billion for this purpose. In the Department of the Ministry of Construction, and that's what I particularly want to point out, it's a billion and 900 million to start building the Moravia Corridor, an extremely important highway that will connect two corridors, 10 and 11 or Pojate and Preljina. I do not need to stress the importance of this corridor for all residents on this move, starting with Ćicececec, Kruševac, Trstenik, Kraljev and Cačka, or for 500 thousand people living in this area. In this area, a large number of economic operators are also operating and will be extremely important to the presence and proximity of the highway for the development of the economy. Our predecessors were pompously announcing the construction of this highway, but it all came down to the fact that they only increased and weighd through whose orchard was cheaper for this highway to pass and did not deal with it to provide funds for the construction of this highway or for expropriation. We are seriously talking about this highway today, the funds are separate and we can expect to start building this extremely important corridor next year. When it comes to economics, and that is what foreign investors keep pointing out, it is near the highway and we expect in the next period and the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs. When we talk about the economy, what I want to point out is that for January 2019, a sum of 12 billion dinars is foreseen for disbursement of the economy, i.e. a relief that will relate to a reduction in the burden on earnings from 63 to 62%, so 12 billion dinars, starting in January 2019. This will mean, of course, the opening of the competitiveness of our businessmen, the attractiveness of our economy for foreign investors, the growing economy and that is what is the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, the long-term commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also an increase in the standards of all our citizens. When we talk about the 2019 budget, we are also talking about increased salaries in the public sector from 7% to 12% and if we talk about education, about increases for our educators, we are also talking about an increase of 9%, and if we talk about healthcare professionals, for doctors 10%, for nurses 12%. In addition, when we talk about working conditions for our employees in the public sector, in recent years we have invested intensively through the funds of the Public Investment Office and in the reconstruction and reconstruction and adaptation to energy efficiency, and school facilities and health institutions, invested in equipment to provide our citizens with best treatment, as well as better treatment and modern equipment for our employees. And where would we end up if the previous authorities had invested intensively in these facilities? Today, we could only be dealing with the acquisition of modern technologies, not the restoration of collapsed objects that have unfortunately failed, due to decades of neglect by previous authorities. Simply, there is no city and municipality in which it is not invested through the Public Investment Office and we will continue with this dynamic. I particularly welcome that the Office for Public Investments has identified more significant funds and will continue with such investments. Budgetary criticism comes from those who obviously did not read the budget, not only to admit it, but also to praise it, so yesterday they pompously introduced unwrapped material, showing they have no intention of opening it and reading it, but it did not prevent them from commenting and submitting amendments to the budget, which they expect to be adopted. And as if that wasn't crazy enough, criticism comes from those who in previous years had the opportunity to show how they had it in their budget, how they were treated by the means of citizens to manage in the most responsible way possible and how they represent the interests of those who put them in that position. When it came to the previous speaker, while he was president of the municipality, he set the municipality of Trstenik among the first four municipalities, but only at the height of the president's salary, so he, knowingly breaking the law, gave himself a salary of 113 thousand dinars, while the average salary in Tristenik was about 34 or 35 thousand dinars. And it took so long until the State Audit Institute carried out a budget analysis in 2016 and ordered that this insolence be corrected. Criticism comes from a man whose capital project in the municipality of Trstenik was an aqua park, without using permission, on which the water was poured through electrical installations. Criticism comes from the one whose only infrastructure investment was in the pre-election asphalt of problematic quality and whose mandate marked the accidental spending of the local community's money and the accidental spending of the NGO's money of as much as 54 million dinars. With which references he commented on the budget, when he didn't find it appropriate to read it, because if he had read it, he would have found information that 51.7 billion dinars were separated for the Ministry of Agriculture, and that's an increase of 17.4%. The biggest increases are foreseen in the division that interests our farmers most. Therefore, for agrarian payments an increase of as much as 24.7% and these increases will be in direct payments to rural development measures, IPARD funds, animal health protection, water protection, forestry and hunting. So 80% of the agriculture ministry's budget, which will certainly reflect positively on our agricultural production. Incentives for processing facilities as well as incentives related to cooperatives are also foreseen. I have to point out that in Triestenik only a few days ago, a contract was signed on 23 million, precisely for the incentives of cooperatives. Investment in 100 automatic anti-building stations is also foreseen. I would like to point out a few more important items, when it comes to projected investment for the 2019 budget, when it comes to the Ministry of Education. So, in coordination with the Public Investment Office, it really is investing intensively in rebuilding the facilities. I am very glad that the Ministry of Education recognized the importance of setting up a centre for scientific and research development, especially in the field of robotics, because it will give our young people new knowledge, an opportunity to develop their careers and stay in their midst. When I talk about the Public Investment Office, I'm talking about the investments that have been made in the past year. So an increase of 72.9% in this division is foreseen, and these funds are now close to 10 billion dinars. The Ministry of Environment records and increases in funds of 16% and is particularly emphasising the construction of a wastewater treatment plant. The Ministry of Economy, also, for infrastructure, equipment for industrial zones, which is also very important for the development of our economy -- it is clear that these plans are based on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia so far, that savings and reforms have led to us today from real resources being able to plan these increases. Given the investment resources provided for in all key areas, so, economy, agriculture, health and education, I will be happy to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49862	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, just to let you know that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because we have a special session, asking questions from 1600 to 1900, but I have procedurely to fill that form, so I can extend the session's work. The word is Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49863	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, in this time that I have to focus on the draft budget and what I could see and now have the opportunity to comment, is what I expected from the finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Sinishi Mali, which is that this time the budget is developmental, that he has in one excellent way predicted and made a budget, given the current economic situation, given the projection for next year. What is most important to us from the SDPS is that Serbia is at the very top of Europe when it comes to economic growth. We were second in Poland, with 4.9% growth, only Poland had 5.1%. I think even he was modest in his projection for next year, that's 3.5%. And what I would especially praise about him as finance minister is that he listened carefully to what the economy thinks, had dialogue and advice from foreign investors, with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, with the American Chamber of Commerce and, of course, in collaboration with the businessmen brought the best possible budget proposal, which I initially said, a developmental one, which will boost new investments, especially foreign, direct investments in our country, which will be such as to encourage and disrupt domestic businessmen and many, many dozens and hundreds of start-up businesses in the coming year. I have this great honour and pleasure to mention that right now, perhaps even at this time, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, in Zrenjanin, is opening up a new factory of the Korean investor 160 employees and I am denying these opposition colleagues who say they are in Serbia, and that only those who come here to install cables and to assemble parts and components are investing in Serbia. In this factory, the average salary will be 90,000 dinars in Zrenjanin. So that's about 800 euros, and the idea that will have our country's exports at an annual level is over 130m euros. Well, I'm now asking you if somewhere in the region, if somewhere in the environment you have such an inflow of investments and so many factories that are being opened daily with such a level of spilling effect, which has, say, and the opening and this factory that's going to be open today. And I'm not surprised, of course, that's the mission and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but what the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, has drawn up a few years ago, it's an increase in exports, it's because the main goal of both this Government and the President of the Republic, the majority in parliament to make the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live better, to live decently than our work, and so I especially thank the Minister of Finance for a very good news, which is that the minimum profit in the Republic of Serbia will be increased by 8 percent, that this budget is socially responsible, that we will never forget that in addition to economic growth, in addition to the modernisation of the country, in addition to new investments from all parts of the world, we take care of the people who can't make their own wages, and the most important things in the market that are true, and that are responsible for the poor, and the poor people who are responsible for their jobs, which are responsible for their jobs, which are for their jobs, which are the money, which are the real, and the money, which are the money, and the money, and the money, which are the money, and the money, which are the money, and the money, and the money, which is the money, which is not surprising, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, which I, and the money, which I, which I, which is not surprising, which is not surprising, and I don's. Also, I believe that this year will be the same as the realisation of existing investments and projects that will make economic growth in our country bigger and that we have as many employees as possible. Also, I must say that this budget provides for new schools to be built, to invest in science, to invest in education. Minister Sarcevic was and had a very dynamic role in these previous two years since the formation of the Government in 2016, a special commendation for the creation of an initiative to build technological parks, a special commendation for the impact and insistence that in Serbia, science has risen to a much higher level than one base for the economic and overall development of our country, for innovation and for new technologies and I think he is one of, if not the only minister in the past 30 years, who has also fulfilled what he is called his ministry, which is the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. So one particular focus on technological development is infrastructure, both in primary, secondary education, is high education reform, and I think it's the man who spent the most time in this high and respected home. This is important for the country, not only is it active and dynamic, but it is important for the country, for education to be at the highest possible level, to introduce order and to be more efficient, to be better, to be better. It is one that convinced Serbia to be part of the modern world, when it comes to implementing the fourth industrial revolution, to be a country where information technologies and all other forms of technology are permanently developed, a country that is receptive and in which tourism develops. We are from tourism in the past year, and this year we will exceed the level of a billion euros in income, we hope in the following year that it will be more and that is why the tourism infrastructure is being built, and that is why this so-called construction is being built. Hard infrastructure, 100 kilometers of highways a year, and we have more and more companies here that want to invest. We have what one of my colleagues here would say, out of opposition, great interest and American companies, but not bexter, but Bechtel, and so companies that are building around the world and affecting Serbia to be a modern and developed country, but we are also taking care of soft infrastructure that will help our country be in a business and economic aspect, one of the most modern, best and most developed countries in this region. Also, I want to tell the finance minister that I expect him and more investments like Er Serbia, Belgrade on the water. Otherwise, for the sake of both the public and us in parliament, that it is impossible today to buy an apartment or a place in Belgrade on water, everything has been sold and someone mentioned by my colleagues to be given an account, to give some cross-section. He can call on the phone, live in the 21st century, live in a century of new technologies and send an e-mail, no, it doesn't exist. It's going to be new. Any honour for the change and for the settlement of this part of the city and for all new investments that will enter Serbia in the next period and that will help us to have growth and over 5 per cent and be an export-oriented country that will lower unemployment below 10 per cent, and that is the goal. This is the role of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, in this Government of the Republic of Serbia to fight for greater employment, to fight for a reduction of unemployment, to fight for investment, but also to work together with our coalition partners, to have a socially responsible state, which will have hearing and feelings for everyone living in it, and therefore pensioners today have bigger pensions, our parents, our grandparents live better, so they have senior cards, with which they can buy goods and services at their benefit. That's why we're going to raise public sector salaries next year and strengthen our administration and government, parallel to the private sector, and that's a formula that builds a modern state and developed economic state, and of course one political leader in this region. Of course, what our people and the Republic of Serbia deserve and that's why we have the right people and that's why this selection of people in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is what it is. Of course, because he has management skills, Sinisha Mali has made one of these budgets that has a feeling, sensible and foreign investors, and domestic investors, but of course also on the social and all those who are threatened and who cannot play and run a game on the free market. Once again, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, we will be happy to vote in favour of this draft budget and all these other laws. Let me just point out that it's a very important law we haven't talked about, a law on radiation and nuclear safety and security. In addition to investment, in addition to economic and economic growth, it is very important that we take care of environmental protection, the protection of the health and safety of our citizens. It will be “Condio syn qua non” of each country's functioning since we plead to be a modern state. Thank you to the President of the Assembly for proposing this law and, in addition to economic growth and development, it is taken into account in this country and this aspect, a very important aspect of social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49864	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49865	Thank you. My colleagues have already brought this material for this session. This next to me is just part of that material to demonstrate how much it's a page and how real and high-quality it is to talk about these 62 points of the agenda. I'm going to illustrate it by not showing volume and weight of this material, but just a little example, let's say, as an illustration of why, colleagues, if we want to do this job in any sense and not feel, simply, as if we're taking part in some reality, in a play where something simply simulates, look at how many important points there are in this material. I'm not talking about the budget right now. How many important laws are there? The spear is being broken over the constitutional amendments, and several times it is returning to the correctional whether or not there will be any control and influence of parliament on the choice of judicial holders. We've got a choice here for a judicial officer in the D.A.'s office and assistant or a deputy prosecutor, and we won't be able to talk about it. What is it worth to us to have this control function that we have and now some colleagues want to keep, perhaps for a reason, when we won't actually be able to talk about it? Or, here just mentioned the law, look, which is very serious, about radiation and nuclear security and security, which was mentioned by the President of Parliament. This mentions important things about citizens and life. The most important thing is to say ionizing radiation and protection from ionizing radiation, whether there is a basis or no basis, these objections that have been passed and heard on to that law lately, and we will not be able to discuss it, and we have spent a dozen working days discussing the protection of the population of bats and selve birds. So, it just doesn't seem serious, and I'm surprised why and why we're not respected by the public, although I agree that there's responsibility and that it's not just Parliament's fault, but at least to remove what's next to us, which would be said. So, my question first and foremost, since I have very little time, goes to Mr. Branko Ruzic, who has just come out, but can also be answered by Minister Mali – why is the introduction of payment classes delayed? Mr. Ruzic said – we're just a little short on it. Okay, does that "little missing" mean it will be in the next few months and will take effect from next year? Why does it matter? This avoids arbitration that the Government or the Minister or the Prime Minister or the State, as some good sultan, vizir, callif, goes and says – now you get 3%, now you get 5% increase, now we cut the salaries, this public enterprise has a big salary, so we won't let them increase what it takes. If you were to introduce payment classes, then it wouldn't happen that, I don't know, a cleaning lady in some public enterprise that's profitable because she's a monopoliest, has a higher salary than a specialist doctor or a teacher at school, and that moves again. So why and until when? Also, very important, we broke the spear here on the justification for the reduction of wages and pensions in 2014. This was justified and defended by the inadequacy of the needs of saving and stabilising the budget. Only two items in this draft budget, which envisions this government for the future, the construction of a national stadium and the Nis-Medara highway, i.e. the highway to Pristina, amount to approximately as much savings for four years or about how much savings are only on pensions taken from our oldest citizens. So, dear colleagues, gentlemen ministers, do you really think Serbia needs a national stadium or a national sports arena worth 200 or 250m euros? Who's gonna play it? Who's gonna fill it out? And these capacities that we have, these stadiums, they mostly sound empty. On the other hand, the highway, 180m euros, is scheduled for the first section of the highway. So here are two specific examples. We do not mention the geopolitical aspect that I and some of my colleagues have instructed it to act more as a highway for Albanians, to get to Nis faster and easier, or that if NATO moves east, it is easier to transport from Albania, from Drac via that highway than is really necessary and the priority of the Republic of Serbia, but it may not be so. That's what we need to talk about, and there won't be time for that kind of conversation. And, lastly or not lastly, there are a lot of questions – subscription. The increase in this subscription, i.e. compensation for media public service, is only 70 dinars. We talked about it on the Committee on Culture. He says it's only 70 dinars. Yeah, but 70 dinars times several million, times 12 months, that's a serious sum. They say since 2014 this subscription has not been raised, i.e. this compensation for the media public service. Yes, it isn't, and now we raise it 40%, and then we wonder if we've returned pensions and salaries to the level or raised them 3.5, 6% or 7% compared to 2014. Inflation's not that big. What seems petty, it's a game of small numbers, it's getting big. What I wanted to praise, on the one hand, Minister Sarčević, and at the same time ask about what he boasted, I would say for a reason, how they introduced 1,000 young scientists into the system, into the Institute's scientific system, but I ask if you have a report, feedback on how many have really entered, how many have really founded the relationship or entered those institutes and started working and involved in the scientific system of the Republic of Serbia? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49866	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. Time's up. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49867	We understand that some people find it hard to read the material they've received for this session, but it's a shame that at least they're not present in the O.R. to listen to the exposure of others, because it might be useful to them. If they were there by any chance during today, they would have heard that the just-authorized representative of the significant party sitting on their side of the hall began his speech exposure -- of course we read the budget, of course we had enough time. I'm inclined to believe that a man says that for a good reason, so the number of amendments that have arrived is certainly an indication that people have read something, so they've proposed something to change. You wouldn't put up with all that by heart, would you? More importantly, pensions are already between 8% and 13% compared to the one in 2014. It's not something to wait for. It's not something that's supposed to happen. This has already happened and can be checked with absolute amounts. There's no problem here. It's not a thing anyone should apologize for. On the contrary, it is good, and if someone really cares about what is good for the citizens, what is good for the pensioners, so it should be done as a man and say – this is very nice that these people will now have more. That wasn't all. Just to remind you, there have been one-offs on many occasions. The first next support, to call it, the pensioner's home budget will be tomorrow, 3,000 dinars each. Today, that was said here, the opening of a new plant in Zrenjanin was marked. In hundreds of new jobs 90,000 is net average earnings. It was in The Tower the other day. So, seven or 15 days, different parts of the state get new drives. We actually have all of this because it's good, smart and responsible, and we have a budget with a deficit planned for 0.5 or 0.4%. Can this ever be compared to, say, famous Djilasovic 20% in Belgrade? He'll never be able to. People, there's one thing you need to understand. What you see in your eyes and what you feel in your wallet is a difference that no one will ever agree to. In time, with this kind of treatment, you'll see that difference getting stronger, be sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49868	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has Minister Sarcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49869	Just brief information for the general public and the scientific community. The competition of thousands of young scientists succeeded because 842 young scientists up to 30 years old and 20 returnees from abroad were registered and hired. That's where the space was created for some to read on the Ministry's website was also in the media, inviting another 100 young doctors who had just enrolled in doctoral studies and that's until December 15th. This led to an interesting number of 962. So there's more space, but we really need to make sure that we respect strict and strong criteria, so this whole activity is very successful.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49870	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49871	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, knowledge has limits, ignorance is gone. I'm just touched, so those of the coalition, none of them sweated, let alone the sweatwater drunk. Here they're trying to tell us that it's better to shut down factories than to open up, that it's better to have fewer pensions and touch them from the 271 billion budget, than to have more pensions, more employment, more insurance and that state budget donations fall 100 billion down. They didn't open the factories, they shut them down. While this gentleman who changed his faith, the nation, and I believe he's ready and half to change to be in the Assembly, while he boasted about Vuk Jeremic and pushed Lutria with Boris Tadic to the ground, the workers were out of work. Hundreds of thousands of people are out of work. To him was a good Kostunica. He spat on Jeremiah. Now praise Jeremic. I don't know when he was right? He doesn't know himself. So I believe he still thinks he's some leader of the opposition. Our opposition can't be helped, they have more leaders than members. I don't think they need a leader, they need a guardian. They said yesterday that investors should be dispersed, obligations should be reduced and fees increased. Mickey Mouse politics. And that's one of those who advocates it. While Vuk Jeremic boasted in New York and while the state paid for his apartment, according to his own admission, he was at Patrick Ho's salary, a corrupter with $330,000. We paid him with public funds, and he made private business out of public office. And today they're giving us lectures. They're saying investors need to be dispersed. Do they know that the state is without a business, they just know how money is spent, not how it's earned, how it's supposed to be pushed down, robbed it, and pushed it into their pockets, do they know that money is without a business, that the state is without a business, that it's money without goods? Do they know that the state without an economy is like a car without an engine and a gearbox? He can manage whoever he wants, but that car can't go anymore, it can only go downhill, not uphill. And so I'm gonna finish my speech with that, God forgive them, they don't know what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49872	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, Dr. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49873	Thank you, Vice President. Yet the Romans developed that bread and games, and they realized that there was a way to keep their citizens under control. We would say that in this draft budget you went one step further and established the maximum repression of the games. Yeah, you've got bigger capital allocations than in the previous budgets, but you missed telling us what the Fiscal Council says is that the largest, farthest part of that investment, is just investing in strengthening the state's repressive apparatus. These are the funds that go to the private SNS police, the private SNS military and its coalition partners, the private BIA, whose officials publicly accuse the media, oppositions, trade unions and NGOs, and citizens who criticise that the enemies of the state and the people, the private VOA, the private VBA and all that you do, are doing to strengthen the state's repressive apparatus and that there will always be some kind of Marko Parazanovic in the presence of the highest state summit to accuse the opposition that they are enemies of the state, after which someone who will always finds someone who will break their heads or attack him in some other way. I'll talk except here about repression, see where there are and games in your budget. Serbian citizens should know that the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 intends to raise a 250m-euro loan to build a national stadium. I'll use the words of our vice president, Marinkovic, who referred to my colleague earlier in the debate this morning - what about you? What happens to you and what might occur to you to raise a 250m-euro loan to build a stadium while you have no money in the budget to pay the pensioners back what was taken from them, that you have no money for those women who are pregnant, who have given birth, who have been begging you for months on the street not to get a thousand dinars a month and not to be punished for what they have given birth, that you have no money, and that's what the Fiscal Council says for investments in science and education, that you don't have money for investments in health, that you have none of that money, and you have money for some national stadium. I'm asking you to answer the question, what's going on with you? How is it possible that your priorities are so moved and so disturbed? The second topic nobody talks about, and you, Minister Mali, at least, is the AP Vojvodina budget. You have retained a constitutional provision in the Budgetary System Act that the AP Vojvodina budget does not belong to either 7% of the income or 7% of the expenditure, but 7% of the tax revenues, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and even those 7% as you count it are not able to pay off Vojvodina as its citizens deserve, but again to falsely display the budget of 7%, you are now suffering in that figure for entrusted transactions according to the law governing the powers of the AP Vojvodina and dedicated transfers to finance expenditure for employees in education and dedicated and non-purpose for all units of local self-government, dedicated capital transfers for projects established by the government. All transfers a day after they lie at the expense of the AP Vojvodina leaving that account and these are not revenues belonging to the AP Vojvodina budget. For other things, I know how you managed to put them because you are rude to the AP Vojvodina, according to its citizens for punishing them, but I ask you to answer me very precisely the following questions, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, Article 187 paragraph 2 of point 4 reads that in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, funds for salaries, fees and allowances for primary and secondary schools, contributions for compulsory social security and severance. How does the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System say that it is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia you can consider the revenue of the AP Vojvodina budget? What will the funds for the salaries of teachers and professors in the AP Vojvodina budget when the law clearly states that these funds belong, that these funds are paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49874	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49875	Thank you very much. We have heard various insinuations whose army, in Serbia, we have only one army, and this is the Serbian army and we want to provide normal working conditions, we also want to reward our brave soldiers who are putting themselves in danger every day so that we and you and our children can be safer and safer. Therefore, unlike the policy of the previous government, which was directed towards the complete devastation of the Serb army, the Republic of Serbia Army, where everything that could be sold out and sold out, we are building our army. And I'm proud to see the moments flying through the sky of Serbia, and I know we're safer both us and our children. And with that policy, we will continue in the future. In terms of priorities for building individual facilities, what is a complete misunderstanding of an economic policy, which is where the sources of growth and what we as a responsible government have been trying to do for a few years, is that in every investment, in everything we plan, we find sources of growth that need to contribute to increasing employment and increasing and raising our VDP, and hence, citizens' standards. Why would I think that? Building a national stadium isn't just a project to build a stadium, it's a project that opens up an opportunity for you on the one hand and an organisation of major European, world and other championships. In addition to that stadium, we, as you heard, will build seven or eight more stadiums and reconstruct the existing in all of Serbia. We want to build our infrastructure, to have the possibility that in sports, which has long ceased to be just a sport, has become business, too, to take advantage of the opportunity to promote our country and of that, of course, and to earn both through tourists and through promotion and through everything. If you knew something about a national stadium, it is a much wider concept, a concept called "Siti", part of Belgrade that should be a whole new part of development. In this project, other than stadiums, you have a large number of housing blocks, business blocks, exhibition spaces, new entertainment parks, aqua parks, everything that needs to contribute to the development of our GDP, the rise of our construction industry, as was the case for "Belgrade on Water". I will remind you of the MPs, and I will remind the citizens of Serbia, what the previous government left us on the subject of "Beograd on water" was the ugliest part of Belgrade, were rats, snakes. They talked about Belgrade, Manhattan in Belgrade, about various projects. They didn't do any of that. They didn't even bother to move one of those 56 ships that were there in that cemetery of ships on the right bank of the Sava River. Now that you look, instead of the ugliest part of Belgrade, the most despondent, you have the largest construction site in Europe, in this part of Europe. You have 1,500 workers, Serbian workers working there every day, earning their money, earning their bread. We started the construction industry, we set an example of how some things could change and we started our economy through this project. So we will run through both national stadiums and other projects that you have the opportunity to see in the 2019 budget. I don't want to talk about it, since I have this experience and the person who led Belgrade for 4.5 years, that the previous mayor left concrete debts to both pregnant and maternity and to everyone else, and you say -- there's no money in the 2019 budget for healthcare and education. Here, I'll tell you, I'll read to you, if you couldn't do it yourself. So in the very budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development you have 209 million dinars higher, which is about 6% higher than 2018. Compared to that, you said health, you have a billion-dollar increase and 332 million dinars compared to 2008, which is a 7.7% increase. So at the beginning of my presentation yesterday and I said – the budget is completely balanced, our priorities are clearly defined. Otherwise, projects by the Public Investment Office, which includes reconstruction, reconstruction and construction of large numbers of clinical centres, hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia, have not been included in the increase in these budgets, and for healthcare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49876	Thank you, Dr. Mali. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49877	It's just so completely inappropriate to say that the SNS police are the SNS police and that the SNS army is completely. So, if someone didn't identify with our army from personal, party differences, let it be his thing, maybe because they can't recognize themselves and their visions towards the military, the attitude towards the military, the one who politically represents people who only knew how to ruin it, just to devastate it, to destroy its assets, and today, when these funds are obtained, when we stand significantly better, therefore, certainly better than in their time, that they can't be identified there. The police are serving to protect the citizens of this country, all citizens. The police are doing it and it has nothing to do with political belongings. When they talk about some fictitious state-run repressive machine, they forget, they don't really forget, they just pretend that when that horrible thing happened to Borko Stefanovic, a cop, watch out, a cop, saved him, that the policeman stood between him and the attackers and took the hit, that the police officer then identified that police officer within 90 minutes these people were brought in. And they can't remember, and they're just pretending they can't remember how, unfortunately, in 2008, they showed a state apparatus, whether it's either reprisal or otherwise here in the square of the Republic, for what, 500 meters from here. Remember then treat the citizens of this country. One of them, unfortunately, paid for it with his head. And compare that to this police behavior today. Is that a party thing, then, is that SNS's? Well, it won't be. You, Mr. Minister, have read, so here's a check. Am I wrong to say that in billions, but billions, the total value of the budget is greater for both agriculture and health and environmental protection and education? There's money for all of that. Of course, there's money because today in this country is seriously done, because it's not spent on Gilas's pocket, nor on Jeremic's pocket, nor on all those that they later funded, distributing down the chain, as Gilas only explained it nicely, how it works from above down to down a little bit each. One more sentence. Don't just deal with the issue of Vojvodina today in the way you've done it in the previous days, that the thing that Serbia should be proud of, a hundred years of association, you call forgery and something bad. Vojvodina has chosen its fate, the people of Serbia are proud of it, as is proud of all the other results we defend today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49878	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49879	Thank you. Let's get something straight first. When I talk about the SNS military and the police, I'm not talking about all those honest people who work both in the military and in the police, who are professionally doing their job, which you, as the minister said, wanted to reward now. Well, you've rewarded them and reduced their wages and their 150 dinar dinars. You've rewarded them quite a bit, talking about those officials in those institutions who today and indeed serve to abuse and all those honest people who work there to repress. We heard everything, Mr. Mali, except for how to pay for the educators living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are paid out of the AP Vojvodina budget, when the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System clearly states that these funds are paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia? What you're doing isn't just a scam. What you're doing is illegal. The funds do not belong to the AP Vojvodina budget, but are paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. And none of your insults, none of your lies, none of your humiliations to the citizens of Vojvodina in the way you've been doing it for six years, in the way you've done it for the weekend in Novi Sad, will change the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia, which boasts that we've entered the golden age, that we have more money than ever, that we'll just see the benefits of your work, punish the citizens of Vojvodina in this way, and deny them the rights of force by putting into the AP Vojvodina's budget something that cannot belong to that budget under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49880	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49881	Thank you. Just to be clear about the support of the AP Vojvodina. If you looked only at the budget more carefully, you would see transfers and incomes of 67.68 billion, plus 25 billion from the budget of the Republic of Serbia for all other projects in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and in agreement with the government of Vojvodina, you will reach 93.028 billion for Vojvodina for the following year. In the 2018 budget, if you add and look at the figures, 84.4 billion dinars were allocated. So almost nine billion more for the total investment in Vojvodina, and it is very important for me that the citizens of Vojvodina, the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Novi Sad and every city in Vojvodina also know that we are fighting for every new job and for every new factory and for all of that. President Vukic was in Zrenjanin today, as you know, to open a new investor factory in South Korea. So we fight for every part of our beautiful Serbia. In this case you have precise figures about investment in the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49882	Thank you, Minister. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49883	They say SNS's attitude towards honest people employed by military and police is seen through a reduction in wages. Mr. Minister, how many times have you said that in this session, did you count it, I failed, believe that for the military, the police are planning an increase in salary, of what, 12%? == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ) So, for education 9%, and for military and police 9%. Is that a reduction? If it's supposed to be bigger, you've heard about how much, both for the military and for the police and for the education. Is that a reduction? So, as long as we're dealing with some verbal camouflage, completely pointless subjects in a completely wrong way. Let's talk about what it says. They say, the biggest regret of the Fiscal Council is that now some repressive regime will be further strengthened. Well, it's not. Read how they wrote it. Here's your opinion, if anyone's forgotten at home. It says here. The biggest problem, and beware of that, the problem of seeing them, under the circumstances, is that there are too many increases in wages. Not for the military, for the police, but for all the increases that are scheduled, which are foreseen, no one hides it, so let's say it with pride. They say there are a lot of big increases. The fiscal council says there should be lower wage increases. Do those who want to advertise that the opinion of the Fiscal Council agree with that – believe in us? Did they agree with that when the Fiscal Council asked for a reduction in 2014 to be greater? I don't remember anything. I wouldn't say anything. Did they agree with the Fiscal Council when he asked to collect electricity more significantly than it did at any time? There's something I wouldn't say. It's about people who don't know, but really don't know what they're thinking and what's the right criterion for them. So if they're able to de facto increase both for the military and for the police, and for the education, and for many others they say it's a reduction, what else can I add. One thing I asked for, and I will ask again -- don't deal with the issue of Vojvodina in an unserious and irresponsible way, in a way that disturbs people. It's enough that a few months ago, that some scientific gathering was held where all these people were concerned about everything and sent everything neatly to their representative to vote there some conclusion, as it was -- that the historical reasons for Vojvodina to be part of Serbia were lost. Don't do these things. Not for you. You have been told by the citizens of Vojvodina what they think of you and where you are politically. Don't, for the sake of the welfare of the people in this country, if you're even a little able to continue to think within that criterion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49884	Thank you, colleague Orlic. I'm closing this circle of replicas. They all had two each. I thank you for your understanding. Minister Sarcevic has something to add. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49885	I am obliged for the public to say how much the increase in funds is between the 2018 and 2019 budgets, when it comes to education infrastructures. So, a total of 25% more investment was planned for 2019, which is somewhere compared to 2018, where there were approximately 300m euros, about 404, which means more than 25%. Only NTP Nis has 11m euros. Many institutions are from one million to two, and three, three and a half, not to mention now, from Zemun to Saturday, Sainte, Pritchard. Indeed, in education and, at least infrastructure, she never invested this long, and so far, in two years, the last one had a complete reconstruction of 870 objects, which is almost over a third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49886	Thank you, Minister. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49887	Thank you, Your Honor. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, respected citizens, the 2019 budget was made up rationally. We're always wondering what the deficit is going to be, and it's planned to be 0.5%, of course, with a tendency of surpluses at the end of the year, because we're finally in a situation and we always tend to spend as much as we earn. We have the support of the fiscal council and what I will stress is, above all, all the measure and disbursement of the economy is investment in the same. I prefer to talk about laws which, of course, are directly based on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 and what affects the economic environment, investment, investment. There are definitely big steps in the matter of changes and additions to the bankruptcy law. What are you looking at? It is seen, above all, because we want to improve the legal framework, to protect the trustee's rights, of course, to increase the flow of information and the security of information between the bankruptcy manager and the trustee, but also that all creditors have insight, of course, into the costs of the bankruptcy process itself. What's the point? The goal is that, no matter how many creditors, they equally influence the choice of a bankruptcy manager, but also, regardless of the level of their claim, affect the company's reorganisation plan itself. Many good privatisations have been conducted in Serbia. The aid to companies that were in the abyss and bankruptcy is one of them a grain shipyard, a Rubicon company, or a company invested 96 million dinars to get them out of the company and today people are working and producing ships. Definitely, there are also improvements to some solutions that have been made to date through the Investment Law. What is the purpose of this law? The most important item is to reduce the unemployment rate. We're constantly affecting that rate, and we're good at it. However, we always want better results and improvements on this issue. However, the equality of domestic or foreign, as well as legal or natural persons who will appear as investors is necessary and it is necessary to enable greater protection of their business strategies. We demand to invest the most in less developed areas. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the authorities of the autonomous province, as well as local self-government, will have the opportunity to make such aid measures in the form of incentives for tax, of course, and customs, as well as releases from taxis. Investors are required to constantly report what their business ventures are, of course, with the keeping of that business secret, just so we don't get any counterproductive effects and not give up on the investment. I can testify to how much efforts are being made to maintain the constant growth that the economic environment is very developed and that we really advocate good negotiations with investors. What's going on with that? It is that in the previous three or four years, much more companies and businesses have been opened than in the previous 20 years. I must say that one of the biggest investments in the Balkans, that is, in this part of Europe, in the amount of one billion dollars, comes right into the city of Begej, in Zrenjanin, and thank President Alexander Vukic, you mentioned it, which he was in Zrenjanin today and opened the Korean company "Esex". It invested 30m euros. Of course, it is a big push for the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Knezevic and my local self-government, because you tried to help the city of Zrenjanin. What is inescapable in the whole story, of course in the light of previous laws, is the company law that was formed to help rank the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank ranking list, i.e. Duing business list for 2018, 2019. What is the purpose of this law? There were certain anomalies regarding the seal. It has been noted that companies are required to have a seal and, in accordance with Article 25 of this Law, this will no longer be an obligation. By the way, we won't be in a situation where certain legal proceedings are terminated. We need to have all the information on employees and on the functions of board members, directors and what will be the accent, of course, is the development of a public-private partnership. The government's work on budgeting for 2019 was exhausted. I have to admit, I haven't noticed any anomalies. Therefore, in further application of the budget and the laws on the agenda, I wish you many successes. Of course, I'll support all the bill proposals. However, I must also say to refer to what the proposals for judicial functions are, as well as the deputy public prosecutors. I must say, I respect the personal and professional qualities of the individuals they listed. But they're not enough. It is simply that there are better candidates, and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I dispute the decision on a proposal for a candidate who is first elected to the Court of Justice at the General Court in Loznica, Nenada Lazarevic, a judicial assistant at the Basic Court in Loznica, as well as a proposal for a candidate for the Deputy Prosecutor of the General Public Prosecutor in Krusevec, Eve Ognovic, a beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, and I ask that the Assembly be individually declared as candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49888	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49889	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's agenda must begin with a reminder of the public that we, within one item of the agenda, have 62 draft laws, decisions, agreements. You made such a mess of things. Your agenda is like this Alliance for Serbia. It has nothing to do with each other, but it exists, like the SIS Agency. So, we're supposed to be dealing with the draft budget law here, but in these circumstances, it's quite impossible and we're not saying that we haven't read and watched what this is about, but there's a fundamental problem here. Yesterday we talked about who these people are who will have this budget and what is the relation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly the best way to see it is in this session. So you know that you have a majority, you know that they promised you that no one would read anything, and then they just asked those who would vote -- that was 9%, or that was 12%, and they're going to vote. It's not supposed to be that way. Your relationship, gentlemen of the government, according to the National Assembly, shows that three ministers sat here yesterday and three were passing through. Today one in passing, two sitting. Where's the Prime Minister? I don't know if it ever happened that there was a budget debate without the Prime Minister being present at the National Assembly. The problem is also, I said, in who will apply this Budget Law, or who will spend money from the budget, given that we have opened the affairs of five ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it should have been discussed before we came to the debate and soon to vote on the budget. It's nice that the state of Serbia is a democratic state, but what you're doing has nothing to do with parliamentary democracy, and it has nothing to do with democracy at all. It is good that in the National Assembly everyone can say and we Serbian radicals have always advocated that the MP can speak without any restrictions in the National Assembly, but that it is said that MPs speak directly against the state, it is unacceptable. We had a situation here yesterday and today that the MP of the people called, imagine, the MP of power threatening the president of the National Assembly, threatened the assembly majority that he would organise some protests against the authorities here in front of the National Assembly. It's something amazing and he's still part of that ruling coalition. We rightly criticised Zorana Mihajlovic for allowing US Ambassador Scott in the National Assembly to say Kosovo is an independent state, but we have a deputy parliament speaker who did the same thing with Scott two days ago. He holds the conference and Scott says that Kosovo is on its own, and the vice president looks astoundingly, blinks, looks at him - God with whom I stand and talk. It's amazing and really inadmissible. We have a situation where the MP, the one I'm talking about right now, is not from the government, the opposition, which is being openly advocated here yesterday, says there was genocide in Srebrenica, that Serbs should declare themselves in this way. So it's just amazing that these things happen in the National Assembly that you gentlemen don't react at all to such statements. We had a situation the other day when the MP, also from power, and it is good that then Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic reacted, said that he was voted by Serbs as a national minority in Novi Pazar, which is simply amazing, and especially that it is such a stupid statement that man does not know that a national minority can be only someone in one state, not in one city or in one municipality, but that he is stupid as his problem, and our problem is that such things are said precisely in the National Assembly. The warning was supposed to get him, but there's a time being and a warning. Mr. Mali praised the budget here yesterday. I've noticed seven times, Mr. Sinisha Mali, that you said something in this agenda was happening for the first time in history. Believe me, you're the first time in history you're the finance minister, and this is the rest that's already been seen. So nothing epochal and nothing that citizens need to expect something spectacular and I don't know how much better life than this, as you said, balanced budget. The truth is that in the public sector, profits are increasing. The first problem is that these rights have been denied at all and these profits have been reduced in 2014 and in fact this is no increase now but first as in pensions returning to 2014. It's true that something slightly increased the minimum. You, Minister, said that the citizens couldn't wait, that it was something you finally said, finally crossed that 27,000 dinar magic number. Can you imagine a family where only one man is employed and gets those 27 thousand dinars can survive one month with his family? He can't. So you have to be aware that half a million employees in Serbia are working for that sad and poor minimum. You're talking about 0.27%. You say, "That's what people were looking forward to, and they have no idea what you're talking about, a reduction in contributions." You say you'll help the employers so much. Why didn't you at least make that 0.27%, even if it's pathetic, for the benefit of the employees. How many earnings are employed in these companies of yours that you open every day, in the drive of various world firms? How many people are there? We asked that through parliamentary questions, but we don't get an answer. It's hard for you to calculate that. How many have come and gone? Why didn't you turn to domestic natural and legal persons in these laws? Why didn't you define such a possibility for them? We talked to you about a bright case, last or last year, a firm from Arandelovac, where the state participated with a particular incentive for the company, so people really got a job there, the Bekament was. Just be realistic. Watch how you live. You, Minister, even though you said that these increases will increase the purchasing power of citizens, so they won't, I can't increase. On the one hand, you increase your earnings by some small percentage, you introduce an increased fee for a TV subscription, for this so-called public service that has long since, and we remind you that Aleksandar Vukic said in 2013, that he would cancel that subscription, though, has abolished, it is now called a tax. We have an increase in excise duties, which of course products and an increase in certain prices, we have an increase in taxes, we have such a quiet, inconspicuous, minor daily collection of goods of general consumption, they have accumulated municipal services, there is an announcement of an increase in electricity price, and where do you see then an increase in the purchasing power of citizens through what you will adopt in this budget? Of course it has nothing to do with reality. We've been telling you ministers, maybe even when you first showed up here as a minister, that you have to seriously reform the tax administration. It can't be done with a change of several members of the law. If you really want to do something in that area, then it has to be done essentially, we're going to allow you some time to prepare a serious bill, to seriously discuss it, not like this in a 62-proposed forest, and change a few members. Who knows what this is about? Neither do your associates who wrote this to you. That's when we reminded you, and you don't have that in this law again, that you have to cancel the disposal fees for private land, that's just one example, because now it's actual, for private land next to the water streams. You didn't do it, and the verdicts began, here, the administrative court department in Kragujevac, but decided that there was a host there, who complained and sued, that the state had to pay for what was taken illegally. You're still gonna take it, so when someone sues, then you're gonna pay well from the state budget, and you don't care, and that's not serious, and that's irresponsible. As it is irresponsible to say, what you said yesterday, that we are the fastest growing economy in Europe. What is Europe to you, if you can say this? What's the matter with you, Europe? Serbia and Albania? Is that Europe when you can say something like this? Do you know what developed countries are in Europe? This is a simple mockery for the people and for this people who may be watching us, or at least they will hear that we have talked about this in the first place. Because people expect us to talk about the budget, but we're hardly gonna get to something more serious to say. We hope that through these amendments, although we will not reach these amendments to the budget, but when you praise the government for everything and everything, we will find it, and we will see where we meet, I guess that will be possible for us then. Let's just take a little bit of the budget one more sentence, that as far as these proposals are concerned for judges and prosecutors, we are contesting a proposal for a deputy prosecutor in Tutin. The proposal, first of all, is to tell you that the proposal is directly from Rasim Ljajic, to elect Muhamed Dedejic as deputy prosecutor in Tutin, and his own brother is, his name is Elvin, he is already Judge of the Greater Court in Novi Pazar. It's kind of immoral at least. So we're arguing and we're asking for a special vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49890	Thank you. I'm sorry, since you thought of me probably in your speech, which I don't have a chance, you took advantage of me to answer that. You know that we had an exhibition about, and we marked the "Hallyard" mission that was in the Prajini, we waited for you with a hot mover, you didn't show up. Let's move on, Sinisha Mali has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49891	Thank you very much. I would refer to a comment that I cannot agree with, which is that the increase in wages and pensions, i.e. the purchasing power of citizens, is to increase a small percentage in 2019, compared to 2018. I will remind the citizens of Serbia once again, the increase in public sector wages, between 7% and 12%. I don't think that's a small percentage. An increase in pensions compared to 2014 between 8-13%. I don't think it's a small percentage either. A minimum labour price increase of 8.6% and I'd like to give you a direct answer. You mentioned before - and why the contributions are not also on the burden of employees, that is, why they are on the burden of the employer. You run economic policy by looking at how to stimulate growth and you have to keep both employers and employees in mind. Employers in 2019 must pay a minimum labour price which is 8.6% higher. On the other hand, they have made it easier to eliminate the contribution of unemployment to the burden of employers and this is a long-term conversation with the Union of employers and representatives of the representative union, i.e. representative trade unions on the Social Economic Council, and this was a consensus that we have made. So our goal is to keep our economy going. You want to encourage and facilitate business and employers, but also improve the living standards of workers. It has just been a compromise to raise the minimum labour price by 8.6% and to abolish employers' burdens of 0.75%. On the matter of tax administration reform, I would agree with you here. It is a major task ahead of the finance ministry, which lies before the government of the Republic of Serbia. The laws ahead of you are not directly related to the reform of the Tax Administration, but to the reform of the tax system. On the matter of tax administration reform, we're talking about it, we're working intensively. In 2019, we will also have a project and a strategy and a reform plan of the Tax Administration adopted, so that we can start implementing it in 2020. Otherwise, I completely agree with you that there is great potential, that there is much we need to do to make the IRS more efficient, to further combat the gray economy and to get these illegal money into legal flows. In this way and in the budget you have more money and then you can talk about bigger investments, increased salaries and increased pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49892	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49893	First of all, Mr. Marinkovic, I'm just asking, I don't know what kind of moving people you're talking about. Where did you eat the locust? It really has nothing to do with this debate or me. I've never had an invitation to go to Prajana, so check in the Protocol, see if the Vice President of the People's Assembly of the Prophets should have ever gone to Prajana. No, of course not. I'm talking about your meeting and the conference from three or four days ago at the National Assembly. You and Scott. He says Kosovo is independent, you're jumping past it, you're looking at it astoundingly, you're blinking. I suppose you admire yourself for being in a society of such size, such an anti-Serb bastard. Mr. Minister, you've accepted a lot of principle remarks, because we've really talked about this seriously, and we've been seriously preparing for this, how much time has allowed us, but there's only one objection I'd like to make to you. You have to bring economic policy into line with reality. That's the essence you keep avoiding. Not just you personally, but it's years ago. It's like you say -- the price of electricity in Serbia is the lowest, it doesn't know, this is the cheapest. Yeah, but I guess that should be consistent with an average profit that doesn't account for half a million of what they do for a minimumer, but with a serious average profit, and then we can talk about this economic policy that can theoretically be the way you explained it and how you predicted these laws. But in the state of Serbia, if you read how many children there is nothing to eat, how many poor families there are, how many people are out of work. You know, these percentages of you are something that statistics like that picture, which has nothing to do with reality, are not employees of those who have moved out of Serbia, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49894	Thank you. The word has a minister, Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49895	The commentary works, all the percentages you're talking about, all the increases we've proposed, of course, are never percentages, not about numbers, but about people, and we've just had citizens of Serbia in mind and their standard, when we talked about it and when we've been thinking about how to conceive Serbia's budget. When I'm talking about percentages, I'm talking about you here, to see the difference between some previous policy and this policy that saved everything that we've earned, everything we've earned, wants to share with the citizens of Serbia. Our inflation this year is 2.3% year-on-year. Only an increase in the minimum labour price of 8.6% is in favour of a real increase of over 6% on an annual basis. At the end of fiscal consolidation, in 2018, we open up the possibility of these increases being even bigger and even higher in the years to come. In the end, I will only refer to the Fiscal Council report, not to say that Sinisha said or anyone else, saying: “The other good feature of the proposed budget is that it is credible, i.e. The revenue and expenditures of the Republic shall be realistically planned’. So we've completely planned what we can really make, and we want to spend what we've really earned, and we don't want to spend any more. In this respect, we differ from previous authorities, who have completely unreally planned their budgets, raised public debt and therefore led us to the edge of bankruptcy in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49896	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49897	Very briefly, so that there is no confusion, primarily because of the public, that we, the Serbian radicals, don't get the impression that we have something against someone getting paid. Of course not, but we've even specifically suggested that there should not be some seven, some nine, you have an amendment where we suggested that everyone be 10%, which in total would be about the same, without creating bad relations between these different groups that are funded from the budget. So, we don't mind, but we're warning you that what you represent as something epochal when it comes to these companies that install their plants around Serbia, that neither they are real, first of all, paid minimally, are not the real numbers that you represent in public when you say, today someone said that Zrenjanin will be employed by hundreds of workers, are there hundreds of workers 900 or 100? What are hundreds of workers? Then you tell us that there's going to be two thousand jobs somewhere, but then there's a corner there -- but in 2029. So it's not realistic what you're saying. Just get down on the ground, people know what you're talking about and people know how they live and what's real. Yesterday, you said, again, as you normally claim to be grateful to the pensioners, that the pensioners voluntarily accepted to bear the burden of harmonising the fiscal situation in the state. I don't know if you've been informed that your pensioners, in serious numbers, have initiated a judicial dispute in Strasbourg? They're going to be out of the budget again, and you can predict it out there, and they're going to be working fast because they don't like you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49898	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49899	Just one example, and that example from today, not to be an example of when. So, the new factory in Zrenjanin, which President Aleksandar Vukic opened today, 160 employees have, the average net salary is 90,000 dinars. Net pay. And let it be an example of new factories in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49900	Thank you, Minister. In accordance with Article 87 and in accordance with Article 205, I shall set a break until 1600 hours. We continue with questions to the Prime Minister and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49901	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Following an answer to the MP's question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be applied accordingly during the duration of the question and answer, by not allowing replication and indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for asking questions. I would like to remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, by first receiving a word from MPs who do not belong to any member of parliament, and then by MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first reported MP is Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49902	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, my first question will be addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, as regards the various misinformations that have appeared in the public these days related to the December 16th local elections in Luciani, as regards the number of people enrolled in the Lucani poll in the last six months. So my question for Minister Stefanovic was – how many people in the past six months have been given residence in Luciani and received the opportunity to vote in the December 16th local elections? My second question was addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, but since she is not currently in the O.R., the question might be answered by Finance Minister Mr. Sinisa Mali. When this government was established in 2016 and was President Aleksandar Vucic, one of the government's main accentes was put to the conclusion of capital investments related to infrastructure, the completion of Corridor 10 and the completion of a full profile of the highway on Corridor 11 from Belgrade to Cacak. I would ask the minister – will we have the opportunity to take a full profile of the highway by the end of 2018 on the east side towards the Bulgarian border, which is the deadline for the completion of Corridor 10 towards the Macedonian border. Then, we heard in the afternoon debate here in parliament that significant funds in the 2019 budget were allocated for the completion of the work of Corridor 11 from Obrenovac to Surcin, and I would therefore ask – what happens to Ub-Lajkovac and whether the damage to that share will be resolved and repaired by the end of this calendar year? I would ask Minister Mihajlović, and I can get a written answer – will the full share of the Master's Road Topola-Kragujevac be completed next year? In 2014, we voted here in the National Assembly that out of the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development this share would be done in 2018 and 2019. As the industrial zone ends there in Sobovica, which will be one of the largest in Serbia, there is a short need for the road to end. One more question about infrastructure. The fast forest highway Bucin's grave-Li Pogorec, which the CIP idea solution made in 2004, will there also be priorities in the Government of Serbia's programmes in the years to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49903	Thank you. The word is made by Vice President Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49904	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs have been appearing, unfortunately, for years now with various false, malicious, incorrect speculations that are reportedly in certain municipalities, and so has been the case with the city of Belgrade when the previous elections were, some number appears, a huge number of people moving from somewhere to change the structure, to be the new electoral body, so that these people change, in particular small municipalities, relations power, and how all of this is done in a sense, organized, how someone orchestrated it, and how it is an absolutely precise thing, of course, not providing any information, no data, no number, precisely because it is a complete lie. That's what I'm saying for the citizens of Serbia. It is, therefore, a complete lie, a lie that was told by people and in the 2016 and 2017 elections, to say in 2018, always those who expected to go very badly in the elections and then made an alibi, there was a whole play to be said – we did not lose what the people did not, but we lost because someone settled there, so they voted us over. I'll read you the number first for the Lucians as the situation stands. In fact, I'm going to start from 2013, so people can see that it's not about the incident, about one year, about one month, and see how it goes this year and that even the trend of reducing the number of people in Luciani, I'd like the number of people in Luciani to increase, unfortunately, the number of people in Luciani to decrease year by year, and you'll see the same trend in the sense of citizens reporting. In 2013, 165 people moved to Luciane and in 2013, it was the absolute largest number of people who had moved to Luciane in the last six years – 165. The same year, 216 people moved out of Luciana, on different grounds. In 2014, 146 people moved to Luciane, and 259 people moved away, and this was the largest number of people who had moved from Lucan over the past six years. In 2015, 111 people moved in, moved 245, moved 140 people in 2016, moved 226, moved 140 people in 2017, moved 233 and we moved to 2018, in 2018 to Lukane, until today, with 119 people, and moved, we have data by November 3, maybe someone else moved, 186 people. So, I've been wanting to tell you for months. In January 11, in February seven, in March 14, in April 11, in May 14, six, in July 14, in August six, in September seven, in October 15, and in November 14 people. So many people moved to Luciane and significantly more from Luciana moved away. So, these stories of hundreds and hundreds of people who have moved here, and in one or two months, from some false residence data, serve as fictional stories that need to distract attention from the key issues that the citizens of Luciana need to ask, what those who are offering them, what is their policy and what is what they offer for their future, other than pure fiction and the fabrication of things. This is what is said now in the world popular – false news. Someone goes with it, it becomes a mainstream topic, and then everyone wonders, they don't find it, but they bring it out in their statement, for 15 minutes they're talking about how horrible it is, and then they end up saying, well, we're now asking if it's true. You know, I've heard that you're a drug dealer and at the end of that I'm asking, just tell me if it's true. That's about it, without any concrete information. Now I've listed specific data. I said this because we had in Belgrade, and that story lasted just how long the elections lasted and as soon as the elections were over, no matter how many times we were denied, it was those imaginary numbers that moved into one municipality by 10, 15 thousand residents all over Belgrade. I'll give you the information. Most of the inhabitants moved in 2007 and 2008, by age, in 2007 24.264 and in 2008 22.023. That's when the largest population moved in. If I had been maliced, I could say it was because of the 2008 election, that that was when some people moved people to Belgrade to win the 2008 elections. I don't believe that. So Belgrade's large city, which was being built, increased, has increased the number of housing units, which is now building apartments, and in Belgrade the trend is seen year by year. In 2017 it was 17,455, the only time it was in the period, to say, from 2000 to 2005. After 2005, all population numbers per year are higher. So, in those years there have been elections, since 2012, and another number of residents moving to Belgrade has been exactly the same as in previous years only something smaller, and it's significantly smaller than in 2007 and 2008 when some others ruled Belgrade, and yet I don't think they're doing it with the intention of voting, I can't think of having such dishonest intentions to do so in the elections in Belgrade. I want because of the truth and because of the citizens of Serbia, that people know that there are no unauthorized changes in residence, something that is increasing in some statistical sense. Unfortunately, the number of people reported has been reduced and the number of people reported has increased, so the number of residents in our country has been reduced, and in this municipality that was mentioned, the municipality of Luciani. There's absolutely no way to say that there's anything devious, distasteful or deceived about it. Unfortunately, if we were to work harder on the birthright, we might be able to praise that we have more born and more inhabitants, to look forward to a larger number of people in every municipality, but the only thing that is completely true and clear is that all those who claim to have hundreds of people settle in Luciane, have made it up completely, that it is data that serves to lie to the citizens of Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia will, I am confident, and when the day of elections comes and the day of voting comes they will be able to reward and punish those who have addressed them in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49905	Instead of Vice President Zorana Mihajlovic, Sinisa Mali will answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49906	Thank you very much. You asked a question about the deadlines for the completion of Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. As far as Corridor 10 is concerned, the southern leg of Corridor 10 means that by the Macedonian border it will be finished and the car will be able to pass by at the end of this year, and on the so-called. the eastern arms, meaning, towards the border with Bulgaria in the first quarter of next year, the direction will be fully completed and the car will be possible to cross the border with Bulgaria. I don't need to tell you how important it is to complete the corridors, or Corridor 10 of both legs, in order to finally, with a full profile of the highway, have the opportunity to go through our entire country. On Corridor 11, Obrenovac-Ub stock will be open by the end of the year, the Ub-Lajkovac share unfortunately due to errors from previous authorities, the previous period must be repaired again and will be completed next year, and Lijkovac-LJig will also be completed by the end of this year. What is particularly important to me, if I can only add to what you asked, therefore, in the 2019 budget you have a further follow-up to both Corridor 11 and some other routes that are important to us. So, the construction of the highway E-763, part of Surcin to Obrenovac, eight billion dinars is defined in the 2019 budget. Construction of a Belgrade bypass on the E-70/E-75 highway, a bridge section across the Sava River near the Ostružnica, to Bubanj Potok, sectors 4, 5 and 6, you have 7.2 billion defined precisely for this purpose. Construction of the highway E-763 shares Preljina-Požega, three billion and 250 million dinars. Construction of the highway E-761 Pojate-Preljina, 1.9 billion dinars. So our plan and our vision, especially from 2018 in 2019, is to continue intensively to build new kilometers of highways, new bridges, new tunnels to improve our infrastructure and thus to make Serbia's citizens' lives even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49907	Thank you. It's an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49908	I thank Mr. Ministers. What I was about to say and what I would like to point out again as a very important thing, for central Serbia and for the Forest of strategic importance, and now you have mentioned that direction and the money provided for in the 2019 budget, for the direction of Preljine-Pojite. It is one key Moravian corridor that will make that one spine in central Serbia to connect two corridors 10 and 11. What is important for us in the central Šumadija, and I am talking about the municipalities of Mladenovac, Topola, Arandjelovac and Gornji Milanovac, at the moment when the project of Gornji Milanovac's connection to the new highway on Corridor 11, I believe that the activation of the traffic station Mali Požarec-top Rudnika-Bucin's grave would be very important. The fast forest highway, which I will mention once again, if the idea project had been done by the CIP Traffic Institute there in 2004, was of strategic importance not only for these four municipalities in the central forest, but also for the towns of Smederevo, Požarevac, which would have the shortest route and would have made one backbone of Mali Povorec towards the top of the Mine, i.e. towards Corridor 11. I also mentioned that the presidents of the National Assembly can get a written answer regarding the highway Topola-Kragujevac, the oldest highway in Serbia south of Sava and Danube, which has earned to finally begin with serious work on the complete reconstruction of all about 35km of this route. The public company "Serbian Roads" started work this year but I would like to get a promise from the government and the resolution minister that the job will be completed in 2019. Another question for the finance minister, is the Public Investment Office programme, which you spoke about this morning about the implementation, or plans for 2019, of funds for the reconstruction of buildings in municipalities damaged by elemental disasters in 2018? So, as a result of the natural disasters, there was damage to a large number of objects both for the apartment and so on. economic facilities in the land. There is a great need for these objects to start with reconstruction and reconstruction. The Prime Minister himself visited some of these facilities with the presidents of the municipalities, and it would be good to start with that work as early as spring 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49909	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49910	Thank you very much. I'll be free enough just to tell you that we've only rehabilitated local roads and for this purpose allocated three billion dinars in the 2019 budget, and you'll allow me not to memorize all the roads so that I can give you the answer in writing about it. As far as the Public Investment Office is concerned, I will send you, if you agree with all the investments that are planned, which are currently under way and planned for 2019. If you have any suggestions, please contact me and see how to include those suggestions in the 2019 plan. What is particularly important is that the Office for Public Investments, therefore, has received nearly 10 billion dinars in 2019. So, never more money, which is good and guarantees that right at the bar, the biggest changes will be seen, what the citizens of Serbia and how they expect and should feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49911	The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49912	I thank the chairman. Here, I have one suggestion for the Public Investment Office in this budget, although we will talk about it at the current session that the Office is budgeting 800 million dinars for damages from elementary accidents on public buildings, public-purpose facilities. Maybe we should consider checking that these facilities are secure. There's no need for the state to play the insurance house and pay for the damages. I will also refer to the discussion of the previous speaker on infrastructure projects. In addition to the section in Grdelica which drew public attention due to the collapse of the support wall, there is another section of Corridor 10 which was the topic of yesterday's news portal "Insider", it is a part of the Serbian House-Levosoja, where it was found that 30 times before the construction of this section was designed, and that the changes are not covered by building permits and that this share essentially shows all the shortcomings in our management of infrastructure projects in all their phases. So the funds are being provided for projects that are obsolete, which do not respect the current situation on the ground, so they predict, for example, the need for expropriation of other people's assets that are emerging in the area of project implementation in the meantime. And let's say, specifically for that stock, the project works started in 2015, and the project is the 2008 CIP. So this causes changes in the projects, it causes deadlines to break, it causes changes in the performers, the introduction of new subcontractors and, of course, it also causes additional costs. So let's say, so for this stock, for example, the open tender was where again the same performers who had already broken the deadlines got to perform these additional works on these additional changes of projects without a building permit for an additional 1.2 billion. In January of this year, the minister said, Minister Mihajlovic, who unfortunately is not here today, that Corridor 10 is finished for her, but unfortunately here we see that it is not. Otherwise, the deadlines for these billions and 200 million additional works were November, and here we can see that it's not over yet. So the question is when will it finally be over, Corridor 10, how much will it cost? The second issue for the Ministry of Agriculture shows that in the budget this year, this division received 7.6 billion additional money, however, farmers report that they are being delayed in the payment of funds for the purchased machinery that was purchased under the country's incentives programmes, and the wars have already reached payment, but the money is late, so the assumption that these additional seven billion is actually due from the current year to be transferred to the budget for next year. And the third question I would like to raise is today the European Parliament's resolution on Serbia, which also requires the rule of law, Oliver Ivanovic's murder to be resolved to the end and it is found that ethnically pure states are not the solution to the region. Well, I'm asking how does this concern a demarcation policy promoted as a policy on Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49913	To whom did you ask the question, I apologize? (Vladimir Djuric: I have asked a question for the minister of traffic, she is not there, Minister for European Integration, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Agriculture, and anyone who can answer me. ) Yeah, everything's fine. Who wants to go first? You want ministers? No, I don't. ) Yes, he also asked you the question, and Minister Joksimovic. Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49915	So I understand the question is, how did you say the idea of demarcation, or the danger of creating ethnically pure states? I would believe all this when it comes to hearing from Brussels, I just want to remind myself of the next thing – and what have these countries that have already been created that have recognised? And what is Kosovo but an ethnically cleansed state, as they call themselves. What happened to Croatia, which of the 560,000 Serbs, came to 180 thousand? What about Sarajevo where 150,000 Serbs lived, and now there are several thousand? What kind of policy ethnic cleansing is someone talking about right now? First they broke Serbia's borders, and now they're saying they're invulnerable borders. It's hypocritical and cynical. So if you think that this has something to do with a proposal that might or may not be considered, I think that in this situation where we are at the moment, we are far from even discussing some proposals for a permanent solution. What suggestions can be discussed when you have a situation where they introduce 100% fees, it is not recorded in recent political history. On the other hand, you hear, and Haradinaj wrote about it, let's say, he wrote, his pen isn't the best tool to work with. You know what his best tool is for work and war, and therefore we don't need to be surprised at what he announced. He announced that Serbia does not respect the Brussels Agreement because it did not release Kosovo into Interpol. Since when does it say that in the Brussels Agreement? First of all, to be clear, the expropriation arrangements started before 2011. The agreement on regional representation itself was reached by Borko Stefanovic and exactly envisioned regional organisations in which Kosovo could be a participant, but also marked in a special way. But that star has turned into a snowflake, or it's melted for some. I hear some of us here in Serbia feel that Kosovo should be allowed to be a member of international organisations. You know what, Serbia cannot admit, Serbia cannot allow a unilateral act to become internationally recognised. As you know, as I said, ten countries withdrew recognition of Kosovo's independence at the vote. Three years ago, in 2015 when UNESCO was, 90 countries voted for Kosovo's accession, 92 countries, and 50 countries were against it. This year, 76 countries voted in favour of Kosovo and 56 were against 22 abstentions. Three years ago, Kosovo needed eight countries to gain a two-thirds majority, and today they needed 36 countries. Therefore, what they say is that the situation is resolved is far from being resolved, and also if someone is talking about not being able to put pressure on Pristina, you know what, if someone really isn't powerful enough to put pressure on Pristina, I don't know what the world's forces are. I've already said that these forces have given birth to a political monster in Pristina. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Oh, my God! ) Mr. Jovanovic, it is not the monsters who came out of the woods, who are free because they killed all witnesses, that are not the monsters who personally raped and killed Serbs at KIM. What are you talking about? (Kadomir Jovanovic: the point is how you talk.) And don't raise your voice on me. Who are you to raise your voice on me? (Kedomir Jovanovic: Who are you? ) Mr. Jovanovic, I don't know if anyone has informed you, so you're in this House just because there haven't been any elections yet. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Well, good and?) Or that you haven't killed me yet? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49916	Please allow the minister to answer the question of Ambassador Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49917	I really don't understand Mr Jovanovic, because he here is a representative of Pristina or a representative of our people who lives here? You don't understand anything here. I came in here under my name, not under Alexander Wolfie's skirt. So am I. You're Mr. Jovanovic's big mistake. I entered under my name, and you hid under the name of other political parties, because you must not perform alone in the elections, under which name you... Don't throw it away. It's past your time, understand that. Who's afraid of you? Is anyone afraid of you here? I'm talking normal. Who in the world gives you the authority to speak while I speak? (Kedomir Jovanovic: So what are you talking to me about? You're right, I don't even have to pay attention to you. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Let's talk about Kurec a little bit, and let's see who laughs last. I don't understand this aggression, Mr. Jovanovic. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Because someone gets hurt. ) Your concern for the Serbs in Kosovo is very well known. You yourself said that you advocated the recognition of KIM, you yourself said that Republika Srpska is a genocide. So what, now I'm supposed to agree with you? After all, what I have to comment on, you asked me nicely, I said that ethnically pure creations were created and that now, if someone wants this idea back to the situation that it would foster new divisions, ethnically, it is hypocritical and that they should talk about proposals for a permanent solution. Serbia is in favour of compromise, Serbia is in favour of agreement, and these moves coming from Pristina are not in favour of agreement. These are moves that are after which there is no agreement and you have heard Mr. Vukic who said there will be no follow-up to the dialogue until these fees are abolished. As for Mr. Jovanovic, I really don't know why I provoked what he was saying, what he was throwing away. First, learn the order. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Choose words. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Have respect for those voters who voted for Ivica Dacic, because I was in charge of the SPS list. And whose list were you on? Put, as far as I'm concerned, put your name wherever you want and compete with me. The other thing, what we're trying to do to get back, I understand your anger, maybe we're doing something that's contrary to your expectations, maybe we're doing it to convince countries to withdraw their confessions. Do you think that's easy? Well, you didn't do it in your day. (Kedomir Jovanovic: You were the government back then, I wasn't the first Deputy Prime Minister. How much longer with that kind of behavior? Listen, Mr. Jovanovic, you're... (Kadomir Jovanovic: talk to Gilas like that. What are you talking about, Mr. Jovanovic? (Dear Markovic: Chedo, what are you yelling at? What the hell are you yelling at here? President of the Assembly! I'd like to ask you to interrupt the session because I don't want to hear any more of this. I came here to answer questions. If you don't like it, pick up the word and the replica. What's this about? (Bosko Obradovic: To abolish the Brussels Agreement then. I don't have a deal with Mr. Jovanovic, as you know. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49918	I beg the messengers who, I apologize to the Minister, first, for interrupting him, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49919	Listen, I was expecting you to say today, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49920	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49921	I expected you to say -- bravo that you have managed to withdraw ten countries' recognitions of Kosovo. Is that something that's not for applause? But obviously that's not in your account. Do as you wish, but don't threaten anyone, shout, for I didn't speak to you. And I think I'm clear enough. We've never been afraid of you, not before, not now, and I have no reason to face you. Besides, it was you who encouraged this whole story, you were the ones who were in power after 2000. You said the Kosovo issue was a democratic issue. Why didn't you save him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49922	You asked Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, I hope you will listen to her. Please. (Ivica Dacic: What's the matter with you? What's the matter? You didn't sell the factory, did you? What's the problem? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49923	Since he's an MP... (Ivica Dacic: what kind of behavior is it that you throw while I talk? I've finished my speech and I'll tell you everything. What the hell do you want? As long as you play here, throw, go to the election, brother, and run. ) (Kedomir Jovanovic: So call the elections. (Ivica Dacic: What's here, you're talking nonsense. Here, I'll wait, no problem. (Ivica Dacic: Whose opposition are you, mine? Whose? Wolfs or theirs, what? What the hell are you doing here? What do you think, someone's afraid of you? What the hell are you? Well, your time's up, so I'm out of the team. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49924	Please, just let the Ministerial begin answering, please. (Ivica Dacic: What is it, Ceda Jovanovic the great factor? In three months, you've finished college, and now you're talking. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49925	I don't want to talk like this until it's over. (Ivica Dacic: Shame on you.) What did I deserve you to talk to me like that? What did I deserve? Shame on you, you begged me to give you security when I was Home Secretary. How can you not be ashamed? If I may answer now. So, as MP Djuric, if I am not mistaken, asked a question about the content of the European Parliament resolution on Serbia, which was adopted today in the European Parliament, simply because of the public and the citizens. The European Parliament's resolution has one broad context, all of the European Parliament's parliamentary groups are participating. As you can see, we have different opinions in our Parliament, and in the European Parliament you have from an extreme left to an extreme right, completely different perceptions, suggestions. Some of them, we will see whether they will be in the assembly of the new European Parliament after the European elections, but that is, I think, the procedure, it is democracy, so in what European institutions are doing. So, you've actually made one lie, or you've connected the fact that in the text is the resolution in Article 26 that you shouldn't be solutions of an ethnically pure state in the region, but at the same time you've dropped to say that the last sentence of that 26-member says that any agreement that could be accepted and agreed on by each other in a good faith, can, of course, take into account overall stability and international law, be acceptable. So, for the sake of truth and for the sake of citizens, you should always quote the documents as they are written. However, something else I wanted to say, which is that I am very sorry that this resolution somehow, it seems to me, fell in a moment that there are no things that should really be covered by the European Parliament resolution, which is precisely the intention of bordering, however anyone experiences them, and changing that by a sovereign state in the region, which is Albania. This is what Tirana recently, so with Pristina, you saw very well in one flag, the Albanian flag, signed agreements concerning, believe it or not, even issues of the common diaspora. You know, when you have a diaspora, you have one queen, which undoubtedly points to the fact that it is an attempt and the beginning of the accession process, which is contrary to the foundations of European values, which is contrary to the fundamental values of the European order set up by the European Security Organisation in co-operation with its participating countries, whose full member Albania has, among other things, had a common fund for foreign policy activities in order to join the EU together in 2025 and supported by the Albanian National Unity Strategy until 2025. Therefore, of course, it should not be in the resolution on Serbia, but as we are already talking about coffee values and what principles are being respected, then we should also draw attention to all of us as MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, your fellow Members in the European Parliament, to take into account and to respond to these things. Was there enough time or not? I think that's enough time because some oral amendments that are not favourable to Serbia seem to have reached them. So, I am keenly interested in whether these amendments that treat Serbia badly arrived from our MPs in time, but did not arrive this information which is essential not only for our country but for the region, but also in the wider context for the EU? I especially expect it from the so-called. "Pro-European parties" in this House, and I think it's something that you should all pay more attention to. The second thing, as regards the very text of the resolution and about Serbia's role in the process and reconciliation in the region and dialogues of Belgrade and Pristina, there is no moment in this, no paragraph of this resolution has a negative definition or a negative connotation of Serbia, as an active regional participant, an EU partner and someone who has contributed greatly to regional stability. I say, I'm particularly concerned that it didn't reach the EU MPs, I did and immediately said, did my job and kept in the loop and called, but I think it's also a job for parliamentarians in the National Parliament of Serbia. I mean, give that question that should worry us all a lot more, because in these circumstances, it's really a question of what kind of solutions you can come up with in the first place, whether it's about changing borders, division, demarcation, demarcation, whatever you want to call it. Therefore, the moment is not exactly the most convenient, I think it seems to me to ask the question in a legitimate way. You could have asked a lot of others, I'd have asked more credible questions about this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49926	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49927	A few sentences only, related to the question that touches Oliver Ivanovic's murder topic. So, the Republic of Serbia treats the murder of Oliver Ivanovic as a terrorist act and a crime, and we expect, of course, to do everything we can to make the murderers and organisers of this crime find themselves. What is, unfortunately, the problem is we don't have co-operation in it. The murder took place in the territory of our southern province, where we do not have the opportunity to operate, neither our prosecution nor the police, and there is a serious problem in the lack of communication, when we have repeatedly tried to obtain any material evidence that we might be able to artificially participate in the investigation together, to assist in the investigation, to be part of the investigation, to conduct an investigation. All our models were fully acceptable to us, especially to cooperate with the Eulex Office. You know that by 2008, 2009, 2010, when UNMIK had exclusive jurisdiction over KIM, then the EU takes over its, let me say, Mission Eulexa provides the conduct of criminal investigations. They were even conducting investigations somewhere, and Eulex was conducting investigations into stolen passports. I want to tell you the level of crimes that Eulex has been working on, considering it important. And now there's a murder this hard. I ask – where is Eulex, because it is an EU question, where is Eulex in the investigation of Oliver Ivanovic's murder? Where are the people from the EU? Where are the specialized police? They won't let us, they won't give us the weapon casings that were found on the spot. So they could've already done a million craftsmanships, they could've had it. So it's not at all a question of whether they've already done it or not. The question is, we have certain doubts, we have certain indications, but it's very difficult to do without evidence. It's very difficult to conduct a criminal investigation in a way where you can't check any witnesses, or videos, or casings, or place, or anything. They listened to some of these people at the beginning of this year. Calling them, hearing them, quite legitimately, perfectly fine, asking them questions, and then doing the same thing in a spectacular way with the same people who sat around all the time with their top executives of Pristina institutions, hanging out, having different, say, political relations, and all that was okay. But that's their thing. I'm not interested in Pristina institutions, I really don't expect much from them. But what I expect of Eulex, or the EU, is not to treat this case with impatience, because due to the poor treatment of the EU, we do not have a solution to this case. I want to tell you another hypocrisy. You saw them asking Serbia today, I find it encouraging, they are asking Serbia today for the solution to Oliver Ivanovic's murder. So that's what they're asking Serbia to do. So they admit that KIM is part of Serbia, which is encouraging. I recognize here, of course, hypocrisy, because when we need to talk about the position of the Serbian people, when we need to talk about the taxes on goods, when we need to talk about everything that happens on KIM, then it's a finished story, Kosovo is independent, don't even ask questions, you have no right to interfere, it's none of your business, it's an independent state. And when we talk about the crime scene of murder, well, then Serbia has to deal with it. No problem, give us a chance to go get all the evidence, give us a chance to conduct an investigation, give us a chance to do it together with KPS and Eulex, here, see if we don't do something wrong, wrong, or on purpose, or anything. Here, Eulex let them work with us, let the joint investigation teams go. It won't. But I ask again – where is Eulex? And here I see the great hypocrisy of individual parliamentarians who, in this way, are trying, it is clear to us what they are doing, trying to lead all the time to the guide that Serbia is guilty of something, although Serbia alone has all the motives and reasons to discover who the killers are. And we don't care what they're called or what they are, and if they're Albanians and if they're Serbs and if they're something else, we find out who killed Oliver Ivanovic. But it can't be done by no one cooperating with Serbia, and you expect a result from us. They killed our people working, trying in magical ways, imagine, you can't access the scene, you can't approach the material evidence, you can't access key material evidence, you don't have access to any of it, and one of you expects it, says – where is your result in the investigation? So, how do you do it? And, how many months has it been, that it's all paved in place, that there's no circular progress here, that they still don't want to involve our investigative organs. But what is the biggest problem, I say once again – where is Europe here? I'm asking where is Eulex in this investigation? Where are the results of Eulex's work? Why do these people exist, to work on all these cases? Is that just a reason to slowly shut them down, to bring down two people who will have one car and pull out at the end and say -- here, these are now all the independent institutions of Pristina, Kosovo, whatever they want to call it, and they should do it all? Well, then what are you asking for Serbia, you who have recognised the so-called independence of KIM? What do you expect from Serbia? Why don't you tell the Pristina institutions – we expect you to solve the murder and hand over those who killed Oliver Ivanovic? Because they know it's impossible, too, that they won't do it there, they don't think about it, they don't have the capacity, they don't have the ability. I just want to say one more thing about Interpol. You don't need Interpol to fight crime, it's useful, it helps to network and connect for cross-border crime. But in your country, you don't need Interpol to fight crime. In your country, you need your determination and your training and the willingness of your prosecutions, courts and police. That's what it takes to fight crime. If you do not have it, as it does not exist, unfortunately in our southern province, from these Pristina institutions, well, then it is very difficult that we can come to any justice for both Albanians and Serbs living on KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49928	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49929	Thank you. Let me add one piece of information to the investigation that Minister Stefanovic was talking about. Our organs are absolutely impossible to obtain evidence in any way, to exploit our capacities in any way. We asked KFOR to engage. Their answer is, of course, we're not in charge, we're not a police unit, but they have a powerful intelligence component. And this is not something that will only be resolved by police methods. This can only be resolved with the use of both intelligence and police capacity. But simply, when we ask for it, we are simply not answered, or said – we are not in charge of it, but, of course, it will always be there that if Serbia can be blamed for Serbia and that Serbia will be responsible in any way. Although it is our country's position from the first moment that it is a tragedy for the Serbian people and that we believe that whoever did it is the enemy of the Serb people, first of all. And that's why he has to be found. This is where leadership was mentioned in Pristina. Are they monsters? They did. Are the convicted and uncondemned war criminals involved? They did. I'm just going to give you an example of Rustem Berisha, who is the minister of Kosovo's security forces, what they're trying to make out to be an army. He's from our court, the court in Nis, the competent court, convicted of a war crime whether in 2012, whether in 2015, for the murder of our soldiers from an ambush. Is that a monster for me? Yes, it is. Is it hard to talk to people like that? Yes, it is. We know who we're talking to when we talk. I speak from my own experience, because I participated in negotiations with them. And that's one of the hardest things you can experience in life. You're talking to people you know are war criminals or unconvicted war criminals because they killed all witnesses. But they are representatives of Pristina, representatives of that people who live there and you have to talk to them whether or not you want to talk to them because of the Serbian people. You can't choose who you're going to talk to. We can turn our heads and pretend to be very proud and terribly powerful, it's unnecessary to talk to them, but what about the Serbs living in KIM space. They make all this work and talk when it's hard. What I finally want to add, you know, to parliament in Pristina, when it is said badly about Serbia, other than the Serbian List, you have not a single vote that will oppose it. I am very sorry that there are so many votes in the Serbian Parliament that, when something is said about Pristina here, they are there to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49930	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49931	Unfortunately, I have asked some more questions that concern neither Kosovo nor the European Parliament resolution in the part in which the resolution deals with Kosovo. These are issues affecting over a billion euros in infrastructure projects in this country. These questions are not answered at all, which just shows that the economy, its growth and its development are not at all focused. It's the best answer for citizens to ask why they live badly. I devoted 30 seconds in the first three minutes to the problem that is related to Kosovo, two and a half minutes I have explained the question about the project in the Gredile ravine, where a billion and two hundred million dinars were broken into poorly-run projects, where we have a closed circle of responsibilities: the performer, the designer, the supervisory authority, the ministry, the government, and no one is to blame. I don't know which MPs this parliament was referring to, Minister Joksimovic, when she mentioned some amendments unfavourable for Serbia that were sent to the European Parliament. Our parliamentary group is not aphided with anyone in the European Parliament absolutely, nor has contact with any of the MEPs, so I would like to hear it. I don't mind your interpretation of the resolution. I don't mind. I wish you were right, and I don't have the need to do that, as I would say. So, if you think that policy is on the right track, you carry it out. I would like to get these answers to these important economic issues concerning a billion-euro infrastructure projects for the famous Corridor 10, which we are building as the Shkodra on Colour for decades, for the Olympic Games in Athens was supposed to be over in 2000 and what year it was. It's been decades. That doesn't seem to interest anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49932	The finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49933	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to the finding that the economy is not in the focus of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that any more businesses and businessmen have been focused on the work of any government but these, and that's why I have concrete examples, and here we've been sitting together for two days, going through the 2019 Budget Act, going through a whole set of reform laws, which are just aimed at making our economy more attractive, competitive, and keeping us above the high growth rates of our economy, our economy, our GDP that we've achieved in the first nine months of this year. To remind the citizens of Serbia and your honourable MPs, Serbia's economy grew at 4.5% in the first nine months of this year. This places us in one of the fastest growing economies in Europe at this time and the 2019 budget is designed to support this growth in the years to come. It is particularly important to mention that the measures we have planned for the 2019 budget and most of the measures have just been brought into co-operation by listening and consulting with businesses in our country. For the first time since 1 January, the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to abolish the contribution to the employer's burden of unemployment. For the first time, we're going towards reducing the payload. It's never happened in history, and it shows how much the economy, the demands of the businessmen in the focus of this government's work. Number two, you have for the first time the Law of Refunds, where we have made it clear, we keep the promise we made that we would lift the burdens on our economy. These charges are pictured in the fact that we have reduced four fees in the law in front of you, the Law on Refunds, abolished, a large number of basics for other fees. It's savings by the Ministry of Finance's estimate of about two billion dinars. This previous disbursement of profit costs, i.e. the elimination of unemployment contributions, amounts to 12 billion dinars per year. Only these two measures, totalling 14 billion dinars, disbursement of the economy, or more money left for investment, for new employment, for further development. In addition, more than a dozen tax laws are set before the MPs of this Assembly, which provide additional incentives, tax incentives for all and innovative, and other activities, accelerate the depreciation of basic assets, equalise tax and accounting balances. One of the most important things that the economy has been looking for. It's a bit technical, you'll agree, but these tax incentives alone make up about seven billion dinars of economic relief. So, for the economy alone, you have over 20 billion reliefs for 2019. We want the Serbian economy to do better. It is our wish and our goal is to have an increasing number of employees, a growing number of unemployed. Look at today's factory that President Vukic opened. So, the average salary for 160 new employees at a factory in Zrenjanin, net salary of 90,000 dinars. So that's the Serbia we're fighting for. We want more of these factories, and that's why we're improving the economic environment, but to be honest, apart from these direct reliefs and direct support to the economy, the most important thing is that our fiscal situation is stable, which we've had surpluses in the budget for three years now, which is not a burden for businesses, but even, on the contrary, support. I've also read to you, and I've introduced you to interest rates. I can do it again. Interest rates on government bonds and therefore on all sources of funding, as was 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and as is now. The interest rates are several times less than they were then, and this may be the most significant contribution from the state to providing a competitive and attractive environment for our businesses and private and public business to be as successful as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49934	Thank you. Do you have a comment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49935	Thank you, Chairman. In my final comment, I conclude that the Honorable Minister has absolutely not answered my question. We have now heard the promotion of the government's economic policy which is the topic of the debate at the regular session at which we are talking about the Budget Law. I didn't ask for tax incentives. I asked specifically – who is responsible for an additional billion and a half of the broken-down money on one section of Corridor 10, on which are the deadlines, on which are the redesigned works, on which these works are carried out without building permits? The answer, which I expected to receive, unfortunately, I will be forced to give in all of this one, to say, a final comment, by giving you information from the founding act of the Corridor of Serbia, a limited-responsibility society established by the state, and which controls the project. Since we constantly have a transfer of responsibility for the mismanagement of infrastructure projects in the circle of the performer, supervisory authority, designer, investor, ministry, government, government, etc., here is a founding act of the supervisory authority in which an answer can be found to the question I have asked, which I have not received from the minister. So, he says, the Assembly of the Public Enterprise of Serbia, among other things, is competent to adopt a report on the construction of the road section and decide to hand over the road share to the competent authority. The assembly of the company is also responsible for overseeing the work of the director and adopting the director's reports. This assembly oversees this supervisory authority’s work on the implementation of the project. Do you know who appoints members of that congregation? Five of them. The D.O.D. I expected to get an answer that for a billion and a half million Serbian citizens, the one who appoints members of the company's assembly overseeing the implementation of the project is responsible. Unfortunately, I didn't get that answer. I hope the citizens understood me and they saw this as the answer I, instead of the minister, gave them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49936	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49937	I thank you, the chairman, honored guests, respected ministers, for my first great desire to commend the arrival here recently, at least quite regularly the government's coming to this question. However, I am very sorry that the government is not in full composition and I am particularly sorry that it is not Prime Minister and that there are few more, I would say, Ministers of Key Resors. So the government isn't in complete composition. I wanted to address, first of all, the Prime Minister, as well as the Prime Minister and the Chief Representative, as far as I know, our countries, at least that's what the Constitution and the laws say. I'm glad this question has become a little bit more regular, because we're really simply buried citizens' issues, and there's very little opportunity for them to ask themselves. Well, speaking of the Assembly, the work of the Assembly, I would like to ask, I wanted to ask the prime minister, but she can answer any of the ministers to my questions, who is to be called and who has a question - is it primarily okay that this is how the Serbian Parliament works? We talked a little before, let's say the budget and the government claims that this budget is extraordinary. If this is so that the focus is even on the budget, so how is it possible for us these days to sit at a session that has 62 points of the agenda, and that's just one of those points of the budget, and I stress not the first item of the agenda, and that means obviously this year, as well as the previous, unfortunately, real discussions on the budget will not actually be. If that budget was so good, what would it be like that for? Speaking of Kosovo, I had no intention of talking about it, but when we talk about the work of our Assembly, so that parliament in Pristina that we mentioned earlier, it discusses negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina, until our parliament discusses it. Do you think that's okay? Does this mean that the government doesn't trust this parliament with a vast majority? I don't get that at all. However, other issues that I wanted to ask concern, above all, the situation in Serbia and what you intend to do about destroying Serbia's natural resources. I'm talking about the rivers of Serbia, of course. I think everyone knows what the situation is about the rivers of Serbia, and citizens are in such a situation that even when they get a verdict that is in their favor they cannot carry out. It's, of course, about the state of our justice. Of course not to carry out the verdict criminally, but the judiciary would say the most painful point of Serbia and one of those who are always controversial, even when it comes to these accession negotiations, however, it seems to me that nothing is being done about it. There is nothing better in health care, because we have come to the situation that the citizens literally have no one to treat, that many professions and specialization of doctors do not have enough. Unfortunately, I've had the chance to make sure lately that it is, and I could talk very extensively about it and that's one of the reasons why citizens leave this country so much. In particular, I have to mention the terrible state of affairs regarding the destruction of Serbia's cultural heritage, which is invaluable while the money is being allocated for some purposes that I would say are completely inexplicable, such as this year's lighting...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49938	You will continue, just to respond to one of the ministers. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49939	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, I did not understand your question. Never a worse situation in health care. I'd like you to remind me when it was better. Was that a while ago, something better, to say what was better, to say that more was invested in health care. As for the frame, I can tell you from 2014 until today that we gave you six thousand specializations, thanks to the people who were before us, I have to remind you that there was a ban on both employment and a ban on giving specializations and that there was two years you had to work as a doctor of general practice and only then did you apply for specializations. I absolutely understand that you need to get some political point together and say that health care is bad, that you're going to fix it better, but it could have been done a lot sooner. Citizens see absolutely everything they do. For citizens to know, between five and ten times more is invested in healthcare than is invested, depending on the area to the area. Both doctors and nurses are employed. For the first time and the best doctors and they get a job, and they get specialization and they pay for the state of doctoral studies. So, the bottom line is, other than you want to collect political points and not say any of the only facts – there's no one and that doctor, there's no such thing and there's no problem, it's the one and it's the one, it's for your honor, and you can, of course, say whatever you want. It's democracy, and it's up to the citizens to assess. I have to tell you, I don't know why it wasn't built in the previous period, Clinical Center Nis, why it didn't start working in the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, why the documentation for Kragujevac and Novi Sad was not completed, why the burning hospital "Dragisa Misovic" was not restored, and today it is bright and it works in full capacity, why you didn't do the General Surgery in Vranje which we will open on December 12th, and in 2012 and 2014 we found this building in weed, and you will see in a few days what it looks like in Vranje with access to traffic and equipment and with all that is necessary. You will see on December 15th what the old building of the Nis Clinical Center, which was renovated in record time in the infirmary, in a polyclinic. Finally made pasarella between gynecology and neonatology. She's become one whole, which is the standard in the world. I'm talking about the Nis Clinical Center. It's a done parking lot. Made helipad and all that hasn't been done in the previous period. And employed doctors, and you give specializations and advanced new methods and people from abroad come to us, operate on both our and our new interest and from regional countries come here to operate on people. These are the facts that exist. We'll open a very fast maternity facility in Lazarevec, a set of new buildings. We're going to release up on Chigota a gamma camera he's never had before, and it's necessary for such a spa. Refurbished toilets that we found didn't even have a door, not that it didn't work. Windows that couldn't close. That's what was waiting for us and what we had to correct. Do you have any amnesia, whether you don't remember, whether you've forgotten or not, I don't know what it is, but these are facts. If you have anything to say, please say it in fact because it's not correct, but it's an honor for you to say some things that absolutely don't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49940	Do you have a further question?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49941	I have a lot of extra questions, but I'll start with this. It is not the first time that I have been addressed by the Ministers, so fellow MPs have spoken to me as someone who has been in some kind of power or used to exercise power, etc. I don't have amnesia, but you might want to ask yourself if I have anything to do with anything. But even if I didn't have, you know, one phenomenon in psychology that's called projection, which is that what you want to do is always copy each other, so let's say it's getting political points. I don't need any political points, because first of all, I'm not a politician or a member of any political party. I came here as a citizen representing the interests of the citizens. Ask around. I'd like you to tell me which political party I'm in. So, as for investment in health care, you know, my time here is limited, and ministers have unlimited time, so I'd like to have a chance to say something else. These specializations are of no value when these doctors go abroad, these doctors you talk about ministers, they're our Serbian doctors who go abroad, and then they come here to perform some months of surgery. Ask yourself how much we have in Serbia, here, I'll give you a concrete one, you've asked for a concrete example. Let's just say, a retina surgeon who can perform the most difficult, most difficult surgery. I know an example of children, from a child who has lost an eye for five years because of the fact that no surgery was performed in time, and the operation abroad cost 150,000 euros, which parents did not have. So, let me move on to the questions that are left unanswered. All the questions about the judiciary, no one answered anything, I said that the judiciary was in catastrophic condition, no one looked back on it, but it doesn't seem to matter here at all. Also, we have no answer to what, for example, parliament in Pristina can discuss the issue of our agreement, and we cannot discuss it. But to go back, let's say these investments regarding culture and cultural heritage, which no one has answered either. No one comes from tourists to Rome or Paris to see New Year's lighting. Tourists are coming there to see cultural sights, which are in a catastrophic state in Serbia, even Mr Vesic said recently that there should be a crime of destruction of cultural heritage, I don't know if you know it, but I heard it, so I wonder if the ministers, would the government support such a proposal that came from Mr Vesic? So I didn't say that. Also, when I said about spending money on New Year's lighting so that it could be built, I'm not going to calculate with a number, like kindergarten, that could be built from that money that's given to lighting, to subsidies... etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49942	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49943	First of all, you are witnesses, I think that you said that in your first sentence – respected guests, who have come to the National Assembly, therefore, cannot determine what the National Assembly will discuss, since it always reminds us that we are guests here, that the National Assembly has chosen us, as it is, that we respond to the National Assembly as we answer. We cannot establish the agenda of the National Assembly, nor determine what the National Assembly will discuss or not discuss. It is our duty for the People's Assembly to invite us, when the People's Assembly invites us, to come and discuss the matter, to appoint the National Assembly, and that is that. As far as the issue is concerned, ministers cannot answer for what the National Assembly is doing, what is its plan, the programme, what is being discussed, what are its themes, how long it takes, the MPs decide. As far as the judiciary is concerned. Justice has been an important topic in our society for many years. If I were to tell you now how wonderful the judiciary is and how great everything works, it would be pointless, because neither you nor I think it is. No one thinks. But that's what the people are working on, that's not why Minister Kuburovic is here, and that's why I decided to tell you. They work hard at the Ministry of Justice, they do people in the government, they work at different levels, and we want to change things about the judiciary to strengthen the independence of judges, and it has changed significantly in the last few years where you have and when you choose judges that the High Council of Justice has much more powers today and that, in fact, without the High Council of Justice, in which most of them are judges, the absolute majority, there is no decision on the choice or judge who first takes office, there is no change in any of the courts, nor is there a call for competitions to elect judges, nor for the presidents of the court, nor anything like that. So we're going towards strengthening the independence of our judiciary. We've reduced the number of old court cases by about 40%. By 40% in some two years, it's reduced by good work, increasing the number of courts, renovating old courtrooms, increasing the number of judges judging by the case and one more serious approach, methodologically looking at how many judges do cases. So, to make a kind of norm, of course, in what is comparable and to try to get those court cases, especially in litigation, to make these trials go much better. We have thanks to the new institutes introduced by the prosecution, especially the plea agreement, we have much faster processes and in guilt in a number of cases where prison sentences are pronounced. So it's not an institute that only allows for a toenail or some milder forms of punishment, but also a time spent in prison. We have a mechanism that can now resort to the court confirming that and that you have a much faster verdict than before. Is all this I've told you enough? Not yet, but you can really see huge work, because it's a thin line when we talk about the judiciary, where you have to take care of how the state intervenes without disrupting the independence of the judiciary, because the judiciary is an independent branch of power. Therefore, the courts are completely independent and make a decision as the judges wish, in accordance with the law and free judicial conviction. But what is important is that we do, of course, make judges understand the importance of responsibility in front of citizens, that judgments must be passed within a reasonable time, that they must not be respected, that they must not remain a dead letter on paper, but they must also be respected when citizens get a verdict that they do not like. Because in Serbia, there is this practice, that when you get a verdict that you think is not good, then we don't have to respect it anymore, because it's done by a judge who I don't like or isn't the decision I expected, which I do care about, up there by the verdict. Now, when they bring in what I expected, that's great, that's justice, etc. So the verdict is what it is, whether you like it or not, you don't have to respect it. There were speeches here I listened to, the European Court of Human Rights found that the judiciary can be criticised in general, therefore, that it can express dissatisfaction with the level, strength, independence, all of it can be criticised, but not individual court rulings and not individual judges, because it turns out that we will lynch anyone who makes a decision that we don't like. So, I want to tell you that the situation in that sense is complicated, that you intervene without disrupting independence. On the other hand, to introduce enough norms to regulate the work of courts and allow citizens to get what is most important, justice. So as not to be the right and the justice are two arguments and that they do not exist on the same level. So, much has been done in this House, and this Parliament has passed a lot of laws that have helped and a large number of judges who have been to the Judicial Academy have first passed through this House's election before, of course, the VSS, I think we have a good number of young people who have now taken the stand and, of course, experienced judges, who have come into play with resolving large issues in our society. We have a large number of convictions for the first time more significant than anyone in the region, more convincingly significant and in terms of money laundering and confiscation of property. In money laundering and where we have been able to prove predicate crimes and where we have managed to find legal persons abroad to launder money, therefore, in a very serious and responsible way Serbia is struggling to show that the rule of law is not an empty word. If it's all perfect, it's not. I often ask those who often teach us lessons – excuse me, how many directors, ministers, judges, officials have you arrested in your countries? Then they're surprised when you ask them that because the answer is zero. So you say -- wait, your country goes through billions, huge money, and you're telling me there's no corrupt man in your country in high office? They look away because they know it exists. So where are the results of the arrest, does that mean that you've been fighting corruption or that you're not fighting corruption enough? There's no answer to that question. There's no answer because they're not there, they're untouchable, and here they have to look, it wouldn't be enough to arrest all 250 MPs, and that would be small. You have to make it up to people that they're guilty of something, so you can tell them that you're fighting corruption. I mean, they're not always the arches of those who judge us just as upright, magnificent as they want to introduce them. Anyway, there's work to be done and it's going to be done intensively. I want to tell you one more thing about New Year's lighting. I want to tell you honestly, not because I need to defend something or not defend it, but really because I think so. I don't think you're right for one reason only. Look at the big world metropolis they look like before New Year's Eve, before Christmas, and that's not an accident. They don't do it to spend money, they do it to make money. Here, here is Mr. Sinisa Mali, the mayor of Belgrade, who can tell you the revenues of the city of Belgrade in New Year's holidays, the increase in the number of tourists, the increase in spending money in catering and hotel facilities and, among other things, because they say that the city in which they come looks better than before and is more ready to spend their money. That's a fact. When you compare income and consumption, you see that the revenue side is much bigger, that we make a lot of money on that. After all, many researches have shown that the New Year's and Holiday's atmosphere affects consumption, increased spending of money. So, that is, especially with foreign tourists coming to Belgrade for a good time, they come to be nice. That money builds schools, hospitals, roads, maternity homes and kindergartens. We've built a very serious number of all these infrastructure facilities. That's what Sinisha can tell you, maybe more specifically, but I want to tell you, I'm really telling you, you have a chance, come into town, ask people from the city, you can get quality information and you'll see that story – well, it's spent on New Year's lighting, it's a waste of money, it really doesn't stand. Don't think any of these people like to be criticized, so they're crazy to be exposed to Satanization and criticism without having anything rational to justify it. Well, who would let them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49944	The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49945	Thank you. Given that the subject of judicial reform is one of the most important issues under Chapters 23 and 24 of the rule of law, I think it must really be repeated and stressed once again how much the amendments to those provisions, constitutional provisions concerning the choice of judicial officers were important, i.e. amendments to constitutional ones that should regulate this process. I think it is very important to repeat that Serbia and believe, when you compare the practice of all candidate countries in the accession process, no one has had such a transparent and inclusive public debate process including all interested public, professional, academic, of course state representatives, but also professional organisations, in three rounds of public debate, debates with the active participation of the Venice Commission, which is the only reference body or most relevant in Europe and beyond, to assess whether they are constitutional amendments. So, in line, not with KIK and Noter, therefore, with common communal law or common EU achievements, because there is no such thing, there is no such thing. There is not one model in Europe that you must agree with, all countries have regulated it in completely different ways, but there are good European legal practices. After all this, the Venice Commission, I say, has brought together the phases and the whole set of round tables and various consultations, so the secretariat has brought the memorandum, which stressed that Serbia has respected all the best legal practices, that it is in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission the way in which the legal holders are changed. What am I saying this for? You remember probably, even though you say you are not active in politics, but I suppose you remember the 2006 Constitution that never went through, so not even to offer any public debate that was then supported by most of the Serb parliamentary life participants, who after that, all the reports that came from the European Commission, especially reports, and only then in 2009 and the unfortunate attempt to reform the judiciary, all reports 2009, 2010, in 2011, the European Commission found a huge number of unsolved, lagging cases. They found direct pressure on the choice of judicial officials, because there were provisions, and I will remind you that there is a trial work for the holders of judicial functions of three years, which has not been adjudicated to these constitutional amendments, but has been expelled, thus reducing any possibility of influence and political influence on the holders of judicial functions. It was also a provision concerning the role of the Assembly in the choice of judicial officials, which has been significantly criticised years ago. I think these are the key things that, of course, you're going to say implementation, and, of course, implementation, or effective implementation is the most important thing. So we agree with that, but I don't think it would be fair if you didn't mention all these activities that are really the best practice and that are assessed in the most positive way possible. The next thing, it was passed a long-awaited law on free legal aid that was very problematic, from the point of view of the interests of different professional organisations, which is actually aimed at establishing free assistance and a system that is important for the most vulnerable groups in our society for the first time in Serbia, means for those most vulnerable and most vulnerable. I think it's also very important from a social point of view, that people can finance the provision of legal aid. Also, the Corruption Prevention Act was sent to the European Commission, if I am not mistaken in July this year, it was recommended to go to the Permanent Body of the Council of Europe, GRECO, which should make its comments. We expect it to happen soon, and I think it's early October, now I'm really not sure, I don't deal with it directly, but in any case the government has been passed on comments and I think we're going to get into the process very quickly. Personality data protection law, an extremely significant law. These are all laws that have been late for a very long time and are now adopted, and I really believe that there is nothing to do about judicial reform, efficiency, accountability, transparency, is not true. I'll just answer, if you'll excuse me, your debate-related question in Pristina so-called. Parliament or the Kosovo Parliament. You know, parliament in Pristina doesn't discuss dialogue. Representatives of the so-called Kosovo governments only address parliament in Pristina when they seek support for delegating and destroying dialogue, a Brussels dialogue. So there's no debate there on potential solutions, because the solutions are still not in sight. Only withdraw, unfortunately, parliament to legitimise the destruction and collapse of the agreement and the Brussels dialogue, which this government, as the responsible government of a relatively small state but which walks on high heels, but with stable heels of principle, has never worked. I think you as an MP should say hello. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49946	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49947	I'm extremely grateful, because I learned some things from you, which is that you're here and you have nothing to do with politics, and this projection, the auto projection, and that, I remembered, it's from college, so thank you for learning some new things here, and I'm extremely glad. But since you have nothing to do with politics right now, I'm just going to have a few facts to tell you. Because you said that people here get specials and go abroad. First, you should know specializations were not given, so we gave specializations, and when you get specialization here, you're obliged to stay as long as the specialization takes, twice as long in Serbia. So if the specialization lasts for five or six years, you stay in Serbia for 10 or 12 years. That's one thing. The other thing, you said, they're going abroad, so they're coming to us. Yes, it is true, our top experts operate in both Montenegro and Republika Srpska, and Bosnia and Macedonia. They do it either on weekends or on their own time, during vacations. I'm telling you the facts you can check right now. That's the facts. That our experts are a serious factor, especially cardiosurgery, neurosurgery, neurosurgery, cardiology, and other areas. I've also given you countries where they work, where they go and operate and work and heal. That's the facts. You mentioned eye clinics, surgery in ophthalmology. I have to tell you that the corneal transplant is routinely done in our system, it's done in the Clinical Centre of Serbia at the Ophthalmological Clinic, a routine, corneal transplant. I'm not sure if you mentioned retinal surgery, if I heard correctly. Retinal surgery at this point is routinely performed in all four clinical centres, in all four clinical centres, KBC “Stars” and I mean VMA. So today, on today, it's routine. It's facts, no politics, no nothing, just what you said, so the citizens would know. I understand, you don't have to know, you're not from that area, someone gives you some information, but just check it out. These are the facts behind which I stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49948	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49949	I'd like to thank the ministers first of all for now, I'd say, more serious and quite correct answers. I'm always for a constructive dialogue. I'm not going to go into too much detail right now, because I don't have time, unfortunately, to talk more extensively about health care or the judiciary, but I just want to say one sentence – that something hasn't been done before, whenever there's no excuse not to do it now. It's something we listen to all the time. I don't want to hear it anymore, and I don't trust citizens. I'd just like to say a few words about that New Year's lighting we mentioned. I'm not saying that New Year's lighting is bad on its own. New Year's lighting is supposed to be a decoration on something that's already nice and neat. What is not nice and arranged in Serbia, these are sights, these are cultural goods that fail. I haven't, unfortunately, heard the answer to whether anyone would accept Mr. Vesic's comment and the proposal I mentioned, no one answered. As for that, and these garden constructions that I mentioned, I hope we don't fit the situation in which children are subsidized to go to private kindergartens instead of the state, so kindergartens themselves can also enter children fictitiously, and I've heard that, so they get a difference in fictitiously enrolled child, a subsidy of 30, 40 and more thousands. And as for the subsidies to the church, to get me wrong, I was baptized in 1965 when a little person was baptized, but I'm really afraid that in a situation like this, a million dinar subsidy can be understood maybe only more God and prayer can help us. I hope not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49950	The word is Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49951	Dear Ministers, I'm asking a question about the developments in Kosovo. As we could see, we heard two statements today -- one of your coalition partners, Ramush Haradinaj, who said that you are ready to recognise Kosovo if an agreement on the demarcation is signed and Alexander Vukic, who also today said that Serbia has no control over any pedal in Kosovo. So, this is a product of irresponsible policy on the one hand and on the other, both Belgrade and Pristina, with Serbia surviving very great humiliations from the moment you came to power and began to worry about Serbia's national interests. So, all the time we've been slapped by those from Pristina, and you're an hour in favor of demarcation and the European Union, you're an hour in favor of a single territory. I ask now - why don't you call your advisers Tony Blair and the others to help you in this situation when people in Kosovo are at risk? And they are threatened by the wrong policies of people and the lives of people in Kosovo. What about Hannah, what about McCallister, what about Merkel, what about Tramp, what about Putin? You say Serbia has never had a higher reputation in the world. Why don't they help us now, help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Kosovo and who are at risk below? So, this unserious policy of colorful trains sent by Serbia, the speedboat that Thaci rides along the Gaza Stripes, beating up Đuric and the taxi is one irresponsible policy in which you participate. I will remind you what preceded all that today we have one complete confusion and a completely contradictory policy led by Serbia on Kosovo. On 16 May 2011, Vukic said that Ivica Dacic's statement on the partition of Kosovo is a violation of the Constitution and that he advocates respect for the Constitution and territorial integrity. On 6 December 2012, you signed the conclusion, Mr Dacic, on the establishment of administrative crossings of Jarinja and Brnjak, but that there will be no charges for customs duties for the north. In 2013, you signed the Brussels Agreement and handed over Kosovo's north to the spot, abolished Serbian institutions, gave the Kosovo invitation number, allowed Kosovo to join the FIFA and the International Olympic Committee, set firm limits, forced Serbs to go to elections, forced them to make a government with your current coalition partner, Ramush Haradinaj, whom you say is a murderer and war criminal. In 2015, you said that Serbia won from five to zero and that it will receive a community of Serb municipalities, not to give the Gaza Strip. This Decision shall enter into Vukic said no one should apply force in the north, after which Marko Djuric was beaten.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49952	Thanks, time. The word is made by Vice President Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49953	I have to tell you that often in the National Assembly we have the same people who say the same things, no matter what you answer, no matter how facts and truth stand, a team worse by fact and truth, if it doesn't agree with what they say. But that's right, it's democracy, everyone has the right to say whatever they want and to think whatever they want, thank God, we live in a country like that. What is true and what are facts cannot be masked in any way. And what is the truth? It is true that the behaviour of the then government, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, all those people who cheered and clothed our lives, were the fundamental managers of this country and they directly influenced all processes related to Kosovo and Metohija. When Kosovo declared completely illegal, contrary to international law, so-called. Independence, what has our country done, i.e. Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Dragan Djilas and those people who have managed our lives? What did they do? They were doing the following. They first asked, and thanks to Mr Jeremic's enormous efforts, a magnificent issue before the International Court of Justice, which resulted in one part of the countries, after this completely perverse, harmful question being asked, then accepting so-called. independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Completely harmful to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, without reflection, I don't want to be malice to say that there may have been any thinking. We're going to see that now, some of the latest processes are talking into it, so we're going to see how that ends. But they're all nice people. They're all nice people, they're a little involved in some corruption affairs, but that doesn't matter, they're nice people. A question in front of the International Court of Justice. Next, Serbia had a position to decide on Kosovo and Metohija in the United Nations and thanks to United Nations Resolution 1244 of the United Nations mission in Kosovo and Metohija, the UNMIK mission, had absolute responsibility for managing all processes, because under Resolution 1244 Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, under the provisional international administration of the United Nations. The processes, thanks to the visionary idea of Mr. Djilas, Tadic, Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic, are being transferred from the United Nations to the European Union, whose majority of countries, the largest and most powerful, were then recognised by so-called. independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Now you convince me that these people had good intentions and a transfer from that body in which you had the chance to fight are being transferred to a body where you don't have a chance to fight, I can't support it. I can't understand that someone could have done it and now they're saying anything about how he's in any way responsible or they're all good, etc. Then what they most often honor, completely wrong and false, is happening to our authorities in 2011. So in 2011, they're introducing a border, not an administrative line, they're introducing a border, and so on. customs stamp. In 2011, the Kosovo Customs seal appeared, in 2011. They introduce the border and cross the border to Jarinj and Brnjak. The people are rising to burn them. And then you will hear from them – no, no, you introduce it in 2013 or in 2012, etc. What turned people on in 2011? What did people burn when we introduced it in 2013? What turned people on in 2011? But not only did people burn it, but they then raised the police to arrest them. Like they beat up those raspberries. It also happened, beat up the raspberries, arrested them, tried them, sued the gongs. There was no democracy then. Then you shouldn't have, God forbid, to mention something. And, as Verica Barac said in her report, the media is under absolute control and there is no longer a single free medium in Serbia. The late Verica Barac said in her 2011 report. So, in 2011, it was very important to show the functioning of those who would now return to power, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic. And their action related to KiM chronologically, actually from item to item. Let me tell you, as far as Tony Blair, Javier Solana, these people were freed, amnestyed and said that these people are completely innocent, that they have no guilt whatsoever. Some previous courts have convicted them of bombing our country. A new government came, the court freed them and said that they were completely regular, clean and that they could be like a bird on a branch and from that moment on we have complete confidence in you, what you have done with a wise policy, what Boris Tadic was doing, what Dragan Djilas, Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic did. So, with their wise policy, they moved the decision from the UN to the EU, so we see how we're doing. They have decided to establish customs between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak, they have stamped Kosovo customs, they have put that completely puzzling issue before the International Court of Justice and have made it so complicated and difficult to fight for Serbia's sovereignty that it is simply amazing. But a serious and responsible government has to talk, it has to deal with politics in a way to make sure that all people living on KIM have the right to live, have the right to live. I'm sorry you say this about Mark Djuric and the taxes. I'm sorry that a man who got beat up there, who they deliberately pulled out and who they bullied, who fought lionically for that Kosovo and Metohija, who was fighting, after all, as part of a big team, I'm sorry that anyone was watching in such a way, because it wasn't an accident, it was done with the intention of showing how they could do anything. It shows what fear other Serbs should live in. The maltreatment of Mark Đuric was directed towards him personally, but according to the rest of the people who live there and the same five times that Ross has been in the last few years in northern Kosovo shows in what atmosphere, the lying people in the evening in beds in northern Kosovo, what Serb atmospheres live in, because they do not know, there is absolutely no rule of law there, of course, in what atmosphere they live in and how they spend their days. Now, we have to fight to change that, and we need to work together with everyone, because Serbia can't do it alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49954	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49955	Dear People's MPs, I must remind you that on 12 January 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, adopted a resolution that essentially gave us a platform for negotiations and set out how and what will be negotiated, until any draft agreement is reached, I do not know how we can talk about something that has not been reached. And we have, therefore, a clear congregation resolution that said what it meant, that is, the National Assembly said how it sees the talks and sees the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. I'll remind you, that's when 175 MPs voted for the resolution, 17 were against it, and two were not voting. The assembly said what it had to say as the highest authority in our country and thus gave mandate to future negotiators, unlike the Pristina parliament, which I would really not like to look up to, because if we were to look up to it here, we would be throwing tear gas, and MPs would beat themselves up here, and MPs would be here. So I really don't see how we could see a good example in the Pristina congregation and pass it on, this good practice and a good experience to transfer to our benches and to our Parliament. Here, unfortunately, we could hear Ramush Haradinaj being equated here with the Government of the Republic of Serbia or with our negotiators. It's always, you know, always precious when you're, especially from those who always say that they abstain from both sides. We often hear that from those in Europe, so they say they abstain from both sides. Well, then they like to hear it from these lines, from our parliament, from Serbia, that it's all the same. Well, when it's all the same, then let's keep each other together, it's all part of some kind of game. This should not be heard from our parliament, not only because it is a harsh lie, but because it is harmful to Serbia's interests and because it is harmful to the Serbs on KIM and because it is harmful, deeply harmful and for the negotiation process. You know, if our policy isn't good, here's Minister Dacic, so what did 10 countries withdraw their confessions? What they didn't do, say, in 2009, 2010/2011. A year? Why did they not then feel the size and strength of Serbian politics and people leading Serbian politics, so they withdrew recognition. Why were they waiting for this to happen just to make a difference in power, some other people come, to take care of them, to have someone fight for their voices, for what they think, so that it finally happens. Why didn't that happen before? In 2011 let's not even leave until 2011, I'll just remind you of the famous Deputy WikiLeaks in which the US ambassador says – Vuk Jeremic asked me, don't admit Kosovo, just until the elections pass, after what you want, but just don't until the elections pass, just hold on. That's how politics was conducted, and it's how politics was done. You know, it was, and it's art, it's just amazing that you can find it with an international authority, especially the Court of Justice justifying Kosovo's independence. It is impossible to find, but with the question they have asked, they have managed to get an answer that Kosovo's independence is not contrary to international law. It's simple, it's impossible to do, but it's done. And in order to do so, a famous UN General Assembly resolution was adopted that we entered into agreement with the Russian Federation at the time, which supported us, which actively lobbyed in the General Assembly and then the night before the adoption of the resolution was changed, the second sponsor was put in place, the EU was put in place and so we brought EULEX to Kosovo. Eulex could not have come to Kosovo and Metohija that the Serbs did not want it, that the Serbian state did not want it. We didn't throw out the UNIFORM, whatever he was. We have not diminished the importance of KFOR, whatever it may be, we have introduced a Eulex which we knew would not be status neutral and we have brought it to the space of Kosovo and Metohija. We did it consciously. It couldn't have been done by accident, it didn't fall from the sky, it was a patient work. It had to be discussed, a lot of paper had to be signed, it had to be entered into the General Assembly, it had to be explained to our allies that we wanted them to be excluded from the negotiations, that they would be excluded from life in Kosovo and Metohija. It was done by the government of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. That's what they did. You know, it's not possible to say that someone else introduced it, I'm free to say with a huge regret of the border, although we're going to stubbornly hold that it's an administrative line, when you remember that burning and remember who went to jail afterwards. Serbs went to prison, arrested by Serbian authorities for burning the administrative line, because they opposed what the current government was doing at the time. Bring, or bring, EULEX, to bring a Customs Agreement on which the Republic of Kosovo writes on the seal. Of course, if we can't do it, we can't accept it. We fight it and it costs us a lot, but it was accepted by the Serbs. It was accepted by the authorities of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, at the time Borko Stefanovic was a negotiator. That's what they did, just as they accepted the change tables in northern Kosovo and Metohija, and we have been successfully avoiding it all these years. I've been listening to various attacks and I've heard that Serbia is weak and none, but just explain to me how it is possible that you failed to find any country that has withdrawn recognition, and this weak Serbia is doing it, and that it is possible for Serbia to resist all these pressures all these years. I've listened to, I don't know how many years, stories about how our funding will go away, how there'll be no more lives of Serbs on KIM, how it won't be. As you know, Serbia pays 40,000 personal incomes in KIM space every month, and we have listened to stories that it will stop, that it will end long ago. How much Serbia has more authority and more reputation than it has ever had, so it tells you, here's an example, remember the Srebrenica resolution, if it were the power we would probably accept that resolution, we would have accepted, if we were a genocide people, if it hadn't been for Alexander Vucic talking to Vladimiro Putin then. The Security Council would argue that we are a genocidal people. But you can't do that unless you have a reputation and you have no authority. You can't do that if you don't believe your word and you don't trust your country. And Serbia is better than it was, it's more respectable than it was, and it should make us all happy. (Radoslav Milojic: Yes, yes... . But it's not easy, some starlets are getting me, I'm sorry, if... It seemed to me that some starlets are getting to me because it's impossible for MPs to throw away, I don't know who recognized themselves in it, I know that MPs don't get, there must be some starlets, they must have interfered somewhere. (Maya Vidinovic: Which starlets, what does this look like?) That's impossible, I don't know who. I really don't. People's peddlers don't get it. They can't get it. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49956	Minister, please finish your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49957	So, in any case, please don't get me those who are certainly not members of parliament, because it's impossible for MPs to throw away, to violate order. That's impossible. Is that right, MPs? Well, you're the best and the most important thing we have. It's impossible for someone to break order by throwing a man who...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49958	Please finish your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49959	So what I'm saying anyway, is that you can't go on the day your country faces a terrible threat, the threat of violence coming in the area of KIM, that you're attacking it, and that you're panicking it. You can't. You can't if you believe in your country. You can't do that if you think well of your country. We never did that when we were in opposition. I think we should at least understand that we shouldn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49960	Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49961	Sinonically for your authority is a lie and brutal lies are the politics of your authority. As for border crossings, meanwhile, Minister Dacic left the hall, and did not respond to what I asked, which is that he signed a conclusion on the establishment of administrative crossings. As for where Kosovo is being negotiated today, what are you looking for at the UN Security Council, if that's being removed from there? Why are you asking to be on the agenda? And that's a lie. To move forward, so in April 2018 in April, Aleksandar Vucic said that by the end of April he would come up with a solution for Kosovo and that the ideas about division are inconclusive, that in August 2018, he would say that he advocated the demarcation, but not long after that policy had suffered defeat, probably demarcation, and that the crying people of Serbia, Sava Janjic, Rada Trajkovic, etc. I ask the question, is the development of a legally binding demarcation agreement as a solution to the crisis in Kosovo and what does it mean in terms of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in terms of whether signing the agreement will make Kosovo a member of the UN? So will you sign such an agreement as your coalition partner and friend Ramush Haradinaj said today? So, will the ministers leave the government in Kosovo in response to all this or will it end only on MPs, or the presidents of municipalities, I apologize, who, because they have been affected, as well as your President Aleksandar Vukic. By arresting, or attempting to arrest Milan Radojicic, and more affected you than the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, and they went out immediately and resigned on their posts, but ministers continue to sit with the same Ramush Haradinaj, who today said that a 100% tax will be abolished when Serbia recognises Kosovo's independence. Will you do it? And of course, who killed Oliver Ivanovic, if the president said he knew that Milan Radojicic had not, he also assumed the role of Prosecutors and Judges and Police. So he decided it himself. Who, then, if he knows who didn't, who broadcast and who ordered the actual broadcast of a video that drew a target for Oliver Ivanovic, and how long in Serbia you'll be spreading aggression, violence and hatred, which will have catastrophic effects, breaking the heads of people who think differently, and as you can see, and killings. In this year alone, you have 32 murders, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49962	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49963	Let's start with this last one. You know, in this country at the time of our government, someone wasn't killed because he came to a political party rally, so the state sent the police to step on him and he died for it. It was done at the time of your authority. At the time of your government, Ranko Panic was killed. That man's name, most of these people won't say, they won't say his name, because he wasn't on that side. When he wasn't on that side, his death wasn't worth it. And that man didn't hurt anyone. He didn't insult anyone. Maybe he didn't even yell at the policy rally he believed in, throw a stone at anyone, do nothing that would deserve a violation, not that the state would come and kill him. The state, which was then ruled by Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, and all of them. These people didn't want to look their mother Smiles in the eye, they didn't want that night on TV, they didn't want to say – there's a terrible thing going on in Serbia, we're not going to be the country where people kill themselves because of a different political opinion. We don't want to be that country. They weren't even conducting an investigation. The fact that no news has appeared in the media for days or 29 minutes of an informative show, it should serve them honorably, but that sentence by Verice Barac, that a full control of the media, explains. There's no talking here. It would be pointless to explain it any further. So that's when the political opponents, the beaten-up people, were killed, legitimateized by those kids who glued posters. I've been around more than half the time, and the police come in at half the night, harassing kids who cry pretty. Why are you putting posters on? Because they're not exactly crying about what Dragan Gilas is on? Well, when it's not Gilas, what are you doing in Belgrade to put up posters where there's no Gilas? That's what Serbia looked like. Today, the myths pass, large gatherings go by, the police are almost gone. You don't have a cop who's harassing someone, you don't have a cop who's blocking them, you don't have a cop who's harassing people in any way. The police are doing their job according to the law. And as I strongly condemned the attack on Borko Stefanovic, and I condemn him today, and I seek high sentences for these people, although it is within the jurisdiction of the prosecution, but here I am giving myself the right to say it and say it is a criminal act, because Serbia will not be such a country. And the police arrested all those people, who are suspected of the acts, in four hours' time, turned them over to the prosecution, and a police officer planted his back to protect Borko Stefanovic. I can't imagine during that period, imagine that a cop planted his back to protect Alexander Vukic when he got beat up, when they beat him, because he had a different political opinion. When Borislav Pelevic was shot in the eye by a rubber bullet. Can you imagine when they were beaten with tear gas and water cannons? I've been a minister for four and a half years, but the tear gas box wasn't accidentally dumped. Water cannons, they don't know what they look like, citizens of a water cannon on the street. Everything was different. Everything was different, because then the government, the top of the government, decided. You don't think it was a police commander or an elder who decided, Boris Tadic decided. Boris Tadic commanded the state, decided, everything and everything was. You know who was called to the presidency to ask if they were allowed to do this or if they were allowed to do it. You know that. Cops are talking. The elders are speaking. They have a report. You know who they called and you know who they had to call to get the authority to do it. That's what I'm telling you about what the situation looks like, and about the atmosphere of aggression, violence best says that, you know, it's not hard for us to condemn violence against anyone because we don't want this country to be a country of violence. I also think as a father of a underage child, that we must build a society where our children will not fear in the streets of anything. Unfortunately, when it happens that someone in the ranks of these people says we should rape the prime minister, shoot the president, hang the MPs, do not know what, then somehow, you know ours, so let's not really judge him. There is no clear - that this man has done a terrible thing, we condemn his hate speech, we condemn what he said, we condemn attacks on women, we condemn attacks on women who are journalists in front of television. Great, you don't like Gordana Zelec and Mara Dragovic but you don't need to get beat up because they have a different opinion and because they do their job in front of the TV they work in. You don't like Pink TV, don't look at it, but it doesn't mean we have to go burn it, take away the frequencies and beat up those reporters because we don't like them. Well, where would that come from if we acted like that? It's an atmosphere of hatred that unfortunately happens every day and I'm sorry that these people don't see it. I condemn it wherever it appears and whoever says it on this or on the other side and from this and from that spectrum and the people who belong to my party and the others, but the problem is that we have the strength to condemn it. The problem is that this other side doesn't see it and doesn't want to accept it. He doesn't want to accept that it inspires hate to lead to hate. Our job as a society is to work on it and we have to work on it. As for the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, a solution is constantly imputed. People, the president also said very clearly, unfortunately, the solution is neither in sight nor in sight. There is no solution. There's nothing in front of us, and here it is now being made, so now it's going to be, there's not. He's just gone. He's gone. Pristina institutions will not have any solution. They think the solution is to wait for the great Western forces to finish the whole job for them. They recognized their independence. They believe they have great and strong support from these countries, that they can do almost anything they want. We still have some role of KFOR that keeps some fragile peace out there and God forbid it stays that way because we all have to work on it, and that's the most important task of not being any bloodshed or instability. It's the job of all of us, and it's done by this government, it's done by the president. But unfortunately, there is no willingness of people who are now in the leadership of Pristina institutions to discuss anything essential. We have signed a Brussels agreement guaranteeing the creation of a Serb community. For five years, this Agreement is not being implemented and it is not only a disgrace to the Pristina institutions, I say again, I do not expect too much of them. I don't think these people have too much reach or institutions, but I expected those who were guarantors, Brussels, why are negotiations being conducted in Brussels? So because we were moved there by UN resolutions, negotiations are no longer conducted in the UN but within the EU. He says, "Dear People's Messenger," and what are you going to do before the Security Council, and that's crown proof? Well, because Serbia is a member of the UN. He has the right to seek protection from the body of which he is a member. He's a member of the UN and has the right to seek protection from that body. That body, unfortunately, is a political body that has the right to veto, which has the right to make decisions in different ways, and can we do something great there, what have we managed to achieve great in the UN, not us, what has anyone managed to achieve? What? The great powers when they don't agree to veto, they can't even pass the resolution, they can't go through this or that. That's true, but we're forced to go negotiate with your decision, by the decision of your authority on the ground which is less favourable to us, where people who are in the majority are different from us. They view it as an independent state and they act on their point of view as they believe in it, but we should not have gone to negotiate in the EU, but under the auspices of insisting that we negotiate as long as possible within the UN, because our prospects are better there. That's true and it was a mistake, a big expensive mistake that still costs Serbia today. Big and expensive mistake. Unfortunately, this solution to the crisis is nowhere near, not at all. Ministers from the Serb ranks resigned there and these people de facto do not participate in it. They're together with their people at the protests. You can look at it every day, but let me tell you that they play some key role, that we don't deceive the people, that they're the key factor, that they're the ones who decide everything in Kosovo, they're not. Absolutely not. You know who decides there. They're not Albanians, unfortunately. They only have biologically enough to be a significant factor of the Serbs, but neither are they a beak factor, and that is why we never appeal and expect that they will make a decision or they will decide. They're not going to America by accident now. They go to tell them what they're going to think about this, what they're going to do about this, what they're going to do about it, what they're going to do about it. I expected a lot more from the EU, to tell you the truth. I live in Europe. We don't want to be an American or a Russian colony, anyone's colony. I expected Europe, I want to belong to the European continent, the EU, that kind of value. I expected these people to do something to you. You know, we guaranteed something, you signed it, I guaranteed it, I'll make them go to that side that doesn't meet it. Then you get what's famous, I get chills when I hear it - we call both sides. Then it loses its meaning. Serbia is still trying to be very serious and responsible, primarily because of those people living in Kosovo and Metohija, and I believe that our decisions have indeed proved to be someone who has shown absolute commitment and responsibility. Is it easy? It's absolutely not easy, because I told Alexander Vukic, who besides being the president of this country and my friend, I told him that he was much smarter to him, he could have just like everyone else past that topic and said, "Let someone else handle it, which I would have put on my own misery." Here, I'll leave it to another generation. What? Would someone like to say thank you for everything they've done? Anybody want to say thank you for going to fight, for going to fight there? He won't. They'll call it both sides, and they'll call it whatever you want, but he said -- I'm wearing that cross, I'm wearing my cross because of Serbia's future. It would have been much easier for him personally if he hadn't done anything, as most of his predecessors have done, absolutely nothing and said nothing but – this should be solved, we remain committed, hard, firm and goodbye, pleasant. What's that supposed to do? Would Serbia have any of that? Would our people have any of that? The man caught himself trying to figure something out, try not to leave the next load on his back, some of our kids having to do it in 10, 20, 30, 40 years. Unfortunately, the lack of political will in the world to get rid of it, suggests the maturity of a part of the elite that is sometimes more important to some elections in Europe in June, so don't solve this now, and it's more important for someone to have it one way or another, it's more important to pretend that they don't see what the institutions of Pristina and Albania are doing in abolishing customs and borders and the same flag. In Kosovo, you don't have one flag that is highlighted, they kill themselves to force us to highlight the Kosovo flag, people don't point out either, there's none. Maybe they have somewhere in some official institution, there's not one of those flags, all of them are the flags of Albania. When it's flag day, there's no flag on Kosovo, and they kill themselves in those sports contests to get us to point out the flag, anthem, etc. So, what I'm saying is, there's been a lot of effort and I think if we found a lot more unity in our country that we could come out with a unique attitude about how to fight for our country so that it would be better for our citizens. Often that is not the case, I often see people trying because of some of their political points to burn it better. It's a bad policy for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49964	Thank you. Do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49965	Unlike the minister, we have limited time for discussion. Of course, it is known that responsibility as a word for you does not exist. It's all someone else's fault. For the past seven years, you've obviously been carrying no responsibility, no guilt, but it's your policy. The citizens will one day understand that. As for the murder of Ranko Panic, mentioned earlier, I would remind you that the organizer of the event, Mr. Minister, was Aleksandar Vukic, that the police minister at that time was your current coalition partner Mr. Ivica Dacic, that the director of the police was today a security adviser to the President of the Republic of Veljovic. So they're the ones who were supposed to solve that murder that you're talking about, they were the police, so ask them about tear gas and about water cannons and about rubber bullets and everything else you want to know. But when you talk about Ranko Panic, it would be correct to mention what happened to the murder of Slavko Curuvija, who was killed outside the door, while Aleksandar Vukic was then the minister of information. And that would be correct, too, if you could answer the citizens. Of course, since one of you just called the source "Vikiliks", here, let me read something from the dispatch "Vikiliks", which concerns Minister Stefanovic. Well, he says - Stefanovic said in Kostunica's language, it says "Manter", that the division of Kosovo is the only real solution and that every Serb prays every night for the division of Kosovo to be, as early as 2011. So, you haven't answered any of the questions I asked you -- how you're going to solve the crisis in Kosovo, how you're going to help the citizens of Serbia who are at risk down there in Kosovo, but you've been dealing with cheap politics, putting responsibility on everyone else except you, to take it. You made the people cry, and you made them cry, and you made them cry to the Emperor Lazarus, and to the world...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49966	Thank you. Marjan Risticevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49967	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know why these Jeremics are nervous, but let's start in a row. I'll start with the ladies. Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic - how much money has her portfolio been allocated for the needs of the population's innovative policy at the level of local self-government? How many municipalities and cities have applied to obtain money under this policy? It's for Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. For Mrs Joksimovic, in view of these fees, CEFTA, the SAA, is there any chance that Serbia will submit a damage claim and how much can it be? So Albanians have to pay for their devils. Let's move on. For Mr. Charca, what does he think of dual education? How important is this, and what is expected in economic activity? I'm sorry. How important is this for the economy, given that I am a supporter of applied knowledge? Let's move on. The Minister of Sports, what does he think of the national stadium? How significant is this, not only for the construction industry, but also for sports events and tourism, which would result from sports events? For Mr. Lonchar, what does he think of rebuilding clinical centres and hospitals? How significant is that? And about in the further purchase of new equipment. Now to touch the finance minister, given that the brunt of Jeremiah the Wolf has broken. A moment ago, his MP, who changed five or six parties, I don't know anymore, seems that now his MP read what Haradinaj wrote together, probably wrote together by Haradinaj and Vuk Jeremic. They co-operated recently and participated together in the construction of the wild state of KIM. With that in mind, he's involved in a bandit corruption affair, internationally. And I ask the finance minister whether the tax authorities, or the authorities of the Ministry of Finance, will provide our law enforcement authorities with adequate information whether Vuk Jeremic reported the revenues he made from Mr Ho, or whether that 666,000 euros paid there while we were paying him, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, apartment, car, servants, drivers, etc.? We paid him to make him public office private businesses. Is this about the Ministry of Finance being triggered by any control that could lead to the arrest of justice here, Vuk Jeremic, not only because of the release of KIM, not because he smokes 1300 euros tompus, but because of the satisfaction of justice?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49968	Thank you. The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49969	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indeed an honor for me to have both the subject of demographics and population policy as part of the issues addressed to the government, because in 2016, when the current president, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, suggested to you that one of the cabinets in the government be the Chamber for Population Policy and Demography. You actually supported that proposal. This is the first time the government has actively dealt with its own resolution of these issues. Experts in the middle of the last century estimated that demographic-population policy is an extremely big problem for Serbia. They warned even one rather decent composition of experts made an extraordinary strategy to encourage birth in 2008. When I came to the head of the cabinet, in the name of which I am now speaking, I found this good paper in the drawer deeply covered with other papers. So, experts from the middle of the last century to 2008, i.e. by 2016, warn, and political hearing, the courage to deal with this problem, in fact, comes from the initiator who is now president of the National Council for Population Policy, President Vukic. I must say, the government is more than committed to these issues. And, as you know, the government's interdepartmentary work can only produce some results. The results cannot, of course, be expected overnight, because demographics have taught us that the unit for measuring good procedures and decisions and behavior in this sphere is at least 10 to 15 years. That's why this isn't a couple of excellent political issues. This is a question of Serbia's future and I am actually running a portfolio that does not deal with political issues, because the quick answers of the positive will not be. What is the goal of the Strategy for Encouragement of Birth that we have brought, which, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mrs Brnabic and all ministers to consider and adopt? First of all, that the most intelligent policy is indeed being led, but to include the issue of migration in the problems of resolving this policy. It's only when someone asked why doctors leave here today that we have to agree that migration is a civilization reality and that people from Germany are going to America, to Canada, even though the standard is very good. So freedom of movement of people, including educated people, is one reality, which cannot possibly focus and bind only to Serbia. This government will never ban those who, nor can, nor have such a tendency, who plan to leave. We will work to strengthen ties with young educated people leaving Serbia, as no government has addressed these issues so far. What I think is a concrete answer to your question, it comes from the fact that, in addition to the very important documents on the national level and the financial resources defined, there is actually no good population policy and good steps if units of local self-government, municipalities and cities do not bring their own plans to demographics and population policy. And that is why we have defined that the total sum of 500 million actually in the form of subsidies is delivered to units of local self-government that have their own programs and applied after public advertising. So 119 municipalities discussed the subject of demographicism in their midst, and I think it is the highest quality, because this government managed to raise the visibility of the topic to the units of local self-government to the Council for Demographic Policy and Health Councils, if they did not have advice on demographics at the level of local self-government units and were preparing and very seriously attached to their projects. So 61 municipalities and the city received 500 million-dollar grants. I appreciate the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49970	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49971	Ambassador Risticevic, you really asked a good question, I didn't even expect you to mention the possibility of compensation, but you actually asked a great question. We cannot get compensation, therefore, related to these measures in Pristina, and that is why Pristina did it among other things. As an entity, self-proclaimed statehood, it is not a member of a number of international organisations, and it is not only this, it is not only telling Serbia, since our position is known, but it is telling the EU that it wants to solve problems on behalf of so-called. Kosovo is because they are not members of international organisations. It is, among other things, one of the political motives for this completely non-economic and politically motivated measure, and it is actually not only directed against Serbia's interest and do not forget BiH, and above all against the interests of the citizens of KIM. Most Serbs, but also Roma, Gorans, Albanians. They are the hostages of one regime, one policy that has strayed from European values. So this is their message and the EU and pressure on the EU from their side. Of course, we don't need to be interested, but I want to explain to you that your question is actually quite, I would say, an interesting way, among other things, to discover a part of the background of this political measure, not an economic measure. As for CEFTA, therefore, we have already launched the discussion process of this emerging problem within CEFTA as a regional economic arrangement. Currently, Pristina is chaired by CEFTA. Since the consensus makes decisions, CEFTA has no way of taking direct action against one of the CEFTA partners, but can be referred to, first, the discussion, then possibly arbitration. So we've already run the mechanism. Key, the CEFTA is even secondary to this. A key document which has been broken and which shows the true background of this anti-European measure, and when I say anti-European, do not forget these are not some abstract values, they are according to the SAA, among other things, and by framework agreements all: freedom of movement of trade, i.e. goods, services, capital and people. So these are the fundamental values on which the EU has created. Therefore, when Albanians burn Serbian goods in KIM, they burn European values for the movement of capital, services and, above all, goods and free trade. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the SAA, Pristina signed with the EU in November 2015. This is the maximum range of their possible contractual relationship with the EU, given that five member states do not recognise Kosovo's independence and we will, of course, in an active diplomatic way, launch the issue through support and, I believe, with the support of non-recognizable countries, which we certainly hope will be open to supporting, above all, not just regional co-operation, because this is no longer a topic of regional co-operation. Here are the fundamental values on which Europe is based today, and I am talking about this economic, regardless of the political decision itself. Among other things, we have acted diplomaticly in three directions as a serious state which does not correspond to unilateral acts, but responds as an active, therefore, member of the international community, someone contributes to the regional and European peace and security order and we will certainly address the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, the Council of Europe, when it comes to resolving human rights, freedom, territorial integrity, which are all defined by relevant international conventions. Therefore, Serbia is a serious state, unfortunately, as Vice-President Stefanovic explained, as a serious state, we must also assume the obligations that some previous governments, on behalf of this country, have brought, as much as we did not like, and we as a serious and sovereign state do, looking to do or prevent any damage to the interests of Serbia or to reduce the damage to our country's interest. Therefore, the damages are difficult to obtain, since this was your particular question, but in any case we will run all the other mechanisms, because we have shown that we know how serious states behave, how diplomatic instruments are used, and we will institutionally respond to everything others, unfortunately, say – they will be isolated, Kosovo will be isolated. I think they are isolated long ago from understanding European values, from understanding dialogue and from understanding responsibility. Unfortunately, citizens are hostages and the biggest victims of this, and Serbia will certainly, don't forget, I ask that MPs keep in mind, there is also a sovereign state in the region. So what he's doing, supported by a statement, I repeat, by Albanian Prime Minister Rama who says this is payback for some aggressive diplomatic policy in Serbia. What, when they make a customs union with Pristina, then they're going to introduce us, us and BiH, 100% taxi? Is this how sovereign states behave in the region, such as Albania? I'm not talking about Pristina, of course. Therefore, here it is, believe me, something that undermines serious regional stability and regional peace, and the EU is not immune to it either, although, like all my colleagues, I am uncomfortable, not surprised, but really in some way, really uncompromisingly affected by the fact that the EU does not show that it has any legal readiness now to protect its European values, because in the elections for the next year and nothing else is of any importance, and I think that closing its eyes and that impedience can lead to unwanted consequences. Therefore, Serbia shows responsibility and we will do everything, firstly, to become a stable partner of the EU, because in the end these European elections will pass and many things will pass, and we must work in the interests of our citizens and we must protect the stability of our country in some way, but also protect the interests of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49972	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49973	Respect and to tell Marian that 200 years ago my last name, or family name, was Sarac, so that it was the basis and that all the Charcevics were really, what he said was a wider family with the Sarcevics wherever they were in the region. It certainly doesn't tang me, I even have a nickname. What's very important, when we talk about dual education, because we adopted that university term, even though some people don't like it here, I always said, when we passed that law here, that first law that applied to the middle level of education, about dual education in a narrow sense. In a broader sense, we have passed many laws that say that this paradigm is much wider and much more significant than we knew and thought at that moment. If that were the case, I'm talking about foreign chambers working on Serbia's soil, I'm not just talking about the national chamber. If we're saying that the German chamber employs over 52,000 people, Switzerland 26, Austria over 22, Italian over 20, U.S.A. over 20, we're talking about serious chambers that have a lot of companies here and are interested in developing their business here. If they have enough working forces at the rope level, so three, four-year secondary education, many of these companies are thinking or starting to do that in science, high and technological development. We just listen to the needs and react in good time to keep the youth in the country, to have safe employment and to be able to form their families. If we say that, in a narrow sense, it covered secondary education, already in the first year over 4,500 students introduced a model of education. That it's not easy to enter data from entries where there were three on one somewhere, and somewhere even seven or 10 on one candidate for some attractive profiles. Here we are really only talking about that good relationship of generally educated values within the curricula of that education with practice and narrow professional and general professional subjects to demasticate every story. At the same time, because of all the need for quality education and studies in Serbia, we have made a reform of the gymnasium, which includes the IT sector, i.e. talented IT departments, which in itself requires a certain kind of practice. So at 20%, where 22 never happened, we came to 25.5% of high school students. What is very important, more than 600 companies have, claim, dual model contracts, which was the goal when we discussed here the protection of the rights of interest of these minor Serbian citizens who, of course, protect their parents. That's when we introduced the component of the so-called. Pedagogical instructor, which is a practical teacher who, along with a company instructor, oversees the work so that the child is not accidentally in some poor condition or position. What's very important, what I'm going to point out again, which is the greatest value of this model is good practice in technologically developed conditions. This is an education with practical work. It's certainly not an education job, because if you have out-of-date machines in many abandoned factories there, you're not going to teach your children anything smart, or they have nowhere to work afterwards. To speak the right thing, we have also adopted the Law on Higher Education behind this law and in it we have brought amendments that require the role of employers' advice to be seen in a completely different way. We're already talking about dual in a broader sense. We've made 31 educational profiles at the high school level. We've covered all those areas that are deficiting. For the next season, nine new profiles are designed together with the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. I'll just mention some, to see how attractive I can be, because of the increase in the car industry and the components in Serbia, we have an industrial tailor in the car industry. We have military technicians, technicians for the dedicated industry, cyber security required by the Italian chamber that is related to mathematical processes, accounting technician through banking, four-year profile, then frigo monter – heating and cooling devices, which requires the company "Gorenje" in large part. We also have clear companies that require this from us and it's a direct link. The construction mechanism manager, which is highly requested, and there is an increase in interest because of the growing tourism as a branch and the great opportunities that this branch now carries with it we had to modernise a tourist-hotelier technician because newly opened hotels require completely different young people to work. The trader must have one modernization and a new exit through the so-called. The electronic kind of shop. We're only talking about new profiles, and I can say that some MP found that the welder should not have three, have salaries of up to 2,000 euros. For 600 seats, 950 candidates apply and there's an obvious jump. The Council of Employers is now involved in the systemic work on higher education, and on the other hand we are almost at the end, we will inform the public about vocational education in Serbia and we have since this summer raised one serious dust and have managed to prove that this education is without any connection to the economy, that it is only paralysing on the back of students, and that the strategy on higher education is not touched, but has been bypassed, which requires greater quality and requires more academic citizens. We also introduce university professors who will do extreme evolution of higher vocational schools and indeed now this close link between the Ministry of Education and the Chamber of Commerce has an absolute connection with technological development. All our institutes are in that position with companies. All of our deals and the expansion of all the other centers have something to do with technology parks. In addition to Belgrade, which is full, where there are no more squares for any kind of start-up of the company, Novosadski is in an intense phase of completion that already adds 29,000 squares. We put a cornerstone in the paper last week, and it'll be over in a year and three months. Elevenm euros will be prepared. Start apps are also done in smaller university centres and we're talking about only those areas that have intense development. It's not just an IT anymore. It's definitely more agriculture. There's certainly more and more technology. Now we have one serious task and we will probably come to this home eventually to explain that in the structure of secondary education we have made two serious reforms, after 40 years of serious high school we have received all the international praises and made a serious reform within the dual. There's the biggest part left that's the most expensive part, which is unproductive, which is so-called. secondary vocational education. In the field of technical and technological science, we have the most unattractive interests, and there is a great need for economy. We've also been through the Education Committee and I'm really still talking about dual in a broader sense, and it's going to be in the student-student standard assembly soon and new scholarship models and good students and perspective students and we're talking about a new law that's at the end, so on. High-level dual education, as all technical colleges, Machine in Belgrade, ETF, Electronic, FTN in Novi Sad do not have any free scholarship students for either third or fourth years. The employers who come to us and the Chamber must understand that they must start over. We've worked very hard on a model in collaboration with the best German provinces, and we have good contracts with provinces like Bademvitemberg, and if we're talking to Bavaria, Brandemburg, Hesen, then I guess we've chosen the best partners. If the company that develops an industrial high-tech level requires that you keep young people here because there are enough engineers and other experts in Germany, it has 40% savings because the difference in the cost of living in Germany and Serbia is exactly that much. In a recent visit to Berlin with Prime Minister Brnabic, we asked what the salary is, say, the nurse in Berlin. About 1,200 euros. The apartment is 700 euros, life costs cannot be covered with 300, it is difficult to save between 150 and 200 euros, very hard. So they don't bloom roses and it's not exactly what they say. On the other hand, it's very important that we work on new technology models in collaboration with large companies. So, on December 7th, Kragujevac will open the first Technological Training Centre, training of people who have completed certain professions and have to adapt to the market. That's what we're here through the National Framework and Qualifications Act to adopt, through informal education and through lifelong education or lifelong education, whatever he likes to call it. It could have been possible for the many workers to pick up "Simens" and the groups that need it, in the Czech Republic, to miss workers, in Poland, and to go there and not come back. Serbia is making a huge effort to design six centres, starting from Leskovec to Sudotica, Kragujevacki is the first, where just one vertical connection is made. Two technical schools in Kragujevac were formed as one major technical school, professional and technical education is imported as a secondary category with technical colleges in Kragujevac and along with this centre, which is a public-private partnership with the company "Milanović" is the first licensed to follow the "Simens" for training. In a recent visit, it's really high tech, in Berlin equipment costs 600m euros, where our students can learn by those standards, where when you look at how the welder works, it's miles away from where he works, he doesn't smell, he has a certain helmet like he's playing a cyber game and a series of other three D printers and CC machines where none of them are cheaper than a million and a half euros. When we talk about such technological progress and what the Serbian economy needs, we are not talking about the simplest workforce, but we are talking about high-tech requirements, and I think our ministry in co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and other branches, with university, vocational education and our science is doing exactly the thing that meets the requirements of economy and monitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49974	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49975	As for issues related to clinical centres, what is now at the stage of work is Serbia's Clinical Centre in Belgrade. I can inform you that the dynamics of the works, that the works are ongoing and that the dynamics are within the prescribed deadlines. It's going well. I think it'll end within the time limit. Not to explain how much this will mean for the health system and for Belgrade and for all Serbia for all patients. The documentation for the Vojvodina Clinical Center is complete. The meeting with the European Bank will be held in the next seven to ten days, where we expect procedures to be launched for the selection of contractors for Vojvodina, for Novi Sad. I think it can all end by spring and close the deal and start the work on spring for Novi Sad. Here I want to highlight one thing, the part that was next to us that was related to the project unit, to the ministry and all that it was done, this is now left to respect the procedures of the European Bank and depends on their urgency to do so. The documentation for Kragujevac is near the end, but since the European Bank insists on one project at a time, two projects will not work at the same time, and this will be completed, until the procedure for Novi Sad is completed. We will be ready to call that tender for Kragujevac and, as soon as possible, in their procedure to be conducted. As for the apparatus, I must inform you, that is, to inform all citizens of Serbia that we are in the final phase of the agreement with the World Bank, which is the credit line where we will replace all scanners and magnetic resonances in Serbia. I have to remind you that we have machines that are over 10, 15 and 20 years old and that it's absolutely invaluable for them to be serviced and their maintenance costs a lot. So we made one program to make it part of the screening for cancer prevention related to diagnostics. Except for magnetic resonances and scanners, we'll rebuild all the apparatus, ultrasounds for all of Serbia. Not only are we going to rebuild the machines that already exist and are old, but we're going to buy new machines for certain hospitals that don't have them right now, but we've done an analysis and we've seen that there's a higher cost of transporting patients to another facility to do the diagnostics of scanners or magnetic resonances and that it's cheaper that this facility has a scanner or magnetic resonance and that it has an economic effect. It's one thing, and the other thing that's more important, that the patient stays in his place and does his full diagnostics, doesn't have to travel anywhere. It's just part of those machines. What we're still thinking, which is already at the end of the procedure alone, which is to get another accelerator for Vojvodina and the scanner to track that accelerator. What we're looking at is not to close that story on it, once again on the accelerator and the scanner, but to find ways and means, maybe from our budget, to buy another extra accelerator to replace those, they have three old accelerators there. To replace, because there are conditions, so you have space, it's a specially equipped space to insert an accelerant or a radiation apparatus and to replace it to have enough to do with Vojvodina. And what's the plan for next year, which is that they're separate funds, that we go for two more "five scans", now we have two one in Belgrade and one in Novi Sad, that we have two more. If we had a cyclotron, or one plant, that would produce what is necessary, these regens that are necessary to do “five scans. ” Let me remind our citizens that we have limited labor here, because our regents, the isotopes, are arriving from Italy and their half-life is only three days. They arrive on Tuesdays and then only Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays can do checks, and the rest of the days don't, because the half-life is running out. Now, with these two other "five scans" and alone when we produce these isotopics, we will be able to supply our four then "five scans" apparatus and they will be able to work not only for three days, but they will be able to work all week. Not only will we be able to produce from those four appliances, but we will be able to produce isotopes and sell them in the region to those who need them, who are closer to us, who are more paid to take them from us, because of the time of transport, and I'm sure we'll be competitive with the price. The acquisition and accelerant, a modern accelerant, were planned for Serbia's Clinical Centre. Also, another accelerant for the refugee hair hospital. These are the plans where the funds are allocated only next year, that I don't move on to some things, some of the most modern appliances that I think we can get in the next period, but on the condition that we behave responsibly and that there is this financial discipline, without relaxation, and that there is enough resources to invest. I remind you, health care is extremely expensive and without great money, it's impossible to do that. Not only are these machines that we're going to help our patients, but they're going to help people who end up here, stay here, because they're going to have a chance to work on these best and latest machines, they won't have to go abroad and make it possible right now, and then we're going to allow foreign experts to come and train them further here, and all for reasons to help our patients. So a lot of newspapers are expecting us with some changes and changes to some regulations and what we're going to talk about in the next period, which will suit our patients and our entire health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49976	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The word has a minister of sports and youth, Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49977	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much for this question, because as you have noticed, building a national stadium is much more than building a sports and infrastructure facility. I am such a large capital infrastructure project pulling with it the construction of accompanying facilities in the stadium itself, but also around the stadium, as well as strengthening the infrastructure of the road, which pulls the development of an entire part of the city. What showed us an analysis of the effects when we looked at other cities where the national stadium was built, showed that that part of the city where it was built, renovated or made a national stadium, pulled a large number of investments and strengthened that part of the city. That is why we want Belgrade to receive a new sports symbol, a modern arena, a modern stadium, and a new recognizable symbol to identify Belgrade. On the other hand, building a national stadium pulls the possibility that we can run for the biggest sports competition. We want to organise in Serbia the finals, the Football League finals, and we want to organize and compete and fight the biggest countries, organise a European football championship, the football world championship, but it's not just sports content at national stadiums. In addition, we can seriously think about strengthening cultural tourism, strengthening corporate tourism. We want to increase the number of foreign tourists who would come to our country through such investments. We wish to strengthen our selections through the construction of a national stadium, improve the conditions for training our athletes and that our athletes prepare in our country, do not go abroad, which we have already managed to stop and with stronger sports infrastructure, with better and better quality halls and terrains our athletes remain in our country and prepare themselves here. It's our wish, since this is the year of absolute records, this year we have the highest number of medals won, when we look at the previous 19 years. In 2013, the Council adopted Serbia won only 12 medals. So far, Serbia has won 45 medals, almost three times more than five years ago, and Serbia has more medals and we will seek to win even more medals in the coming period. This year is a record when it comes to giving scholarships to our athletes, when it comes to organising major European, international competitions, I mean primarily the "final For" in basketball, but also the three European competitions that Serbia has organised this year, which has never happened when it comes to sports, but also when it comes to building sport infrastructure. A renovated stadium in Subotica opens tomorrow, opening the first phase of the renovated stadium in Subotica. We've renovated three paths, i.e. The track is renovated according to all European and world standards, so Subotica will be able to compete for the organisation of international competitions. Data is the possibility that athletes have the best conditions. It's changed the terrain, the locker rooms are fully adapted, so Subotica gets a new place to be tomorrow, but Saturday's footballers will be able to play in the most modern stadium since tomorrow and on. It is only the first phase, because it is our desire to renovate the stands in Subotica, but also another 10 stadiums throughout Serbia over the next three years, to end where Serbia could rise from the 10 most modern stadiums and compete in this way for organisation and lower competitions, but also to be competitive when it comes to our club football competition. Because our football now records top scores, again our club football, but representative football plays a significant role in the international competition and our desire is to speed up the development of football in Serbia through this investment. But we believe that all of this is not a cost, and we believe that by giving in sports and sports infrastructure we invest in our present, we invest in our future, we promote a new value, but since there is a health minister, we prevent the health of our nation in the future. Research has been known to say that today's one dinar invested in sports is three dinars less invested in health care. We want to invest in our future today, we want to give less health care later and we want to promote those healthy lifestyles through sport, but we also encourage all citizens to deal with recreation, to engage in sports, to accept healthy lifestyles. I am pleased that Serbia will host major international competitions in the coming period, which we deserve to host a top-notch household, but that we have also earned good sports infrastructure. The following year Serbia hosts the European Women's Championship in basketball, in 2021 we host the European Women's Championship in volleyball together with Bulgaria and Romania, which is a test for the European and World Competition 2028 and 2030 in football, but we want to attract as many children as we can, as well as build a new sports infrastructure. In the next three years, we wish that ten of our largest alliances get their national house and that it has a place where they will train the highest quality and best conditions to perform what our athletes know best, which is that they win the greatest medals in international competitions. We also wish that those little sports that we now again experience after 40 years in international competitions, primarily I think about karate, tekvondo, judo, wrestling, kickboxing but also other sports that have already become standard when it comes to winning medals, that they have the best conditions in their country and that from the region, but also from all over Europe and the world come athletes to our country, to prepare with our athletes and I repeat, to encourage our country's economy again through strengthening sports tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49978	Thank you, Minister Widow. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49979	Thank you very much. Mr. Risticevic, I think you've asked a very good question. I think Serbian citizens have the right to know the data and status of the property of all public officials and all those who deal with politics in Serbia, I go from myself, many times, and my property has been checked in such a way. It is interesting that the tens of thousands or dollars that Vuk Jeremic received in the previous period, and we find out now, and from China, from America, from some other countries, we'll see and check, at this point I have no idea if he reported it or didn't report it, but we'll check it out. We will see what he reported of his assets, what he did not and whether he respected the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia. What is even more important to me, which is that next year, as I had the chance to say today, we are planning a major reform of the Tax Administration, a major reform of the tax system in general, and I think that in such a way we will make our tax authorities even more efficient and even better so that citizens of Serbia have information at all times by the nature that you have stated, whether and how much money Vuk Jeremic received from various sources around the world and whether it is reported or not by the Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-29-0.u49980	Thank you, Minister Mali. I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for their work and answers to the questions of the MPs. We end the session and work in part of the session on parliamentary issues. I am informing the MPs that we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
