ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35797	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35798	The first question I would like to address to the President of the State, Aleksandr Vukic, we were actually able to inform the media that after meeting Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic with Hashim Thaci, Hashim Thaci, and terrorists, he told Pristina, world, European and all other media that no one would win, as he said and win by 100%, but that Kosovo would preserve territorial integrity and sovereignty. I ask the question to the president of the state, probably this bold statement came after an alleged plan that came from the west to the president of the state, which unequivocally says that Serbia must give up KIM for Serbia's entry into the EU, so I am interested in when Serbia, the official state, the government and the president will turn their backs to Western forces which, as you can see, are not friends, because friends take nothing and turn to real friends, and that is the Russian Federation, China and other countries, which do not stab us in the back and help us to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and where the Constitution of the Republic says that KIM is an integral part of Serbia. Also, I want to ask the president of the state, but also to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, after we were able to hear from the president of the state that this famous plan has arrived, which we announced a month and a half ago, that we Serbian radicals have written, that we will get, and that it will be a kind of ultimatum, means nothing new. Something that's been going on in Rambulje, something's been going on in the '90s, it's happening today. Following the plan, the country's president said there was no entry into the EU without the handover of KIM. On the other hand, the SNS and the SPS as ruling parties continue to talk about the EU and continue to pass laws that are in line with the EU. Does this mean that the ruling parties are not compatible with the prime minister's and president's policies or is this evidence that yet a certain decision has been made to recognise Kosovo's independence and hand it over to the Cypriot terrorists? Do I really expect an answer that is real politics? If the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state is that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, then I ask you to stop on that path that is exactly the opposite of that policy, which is the way to the EU. The third question is Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic's question. The so-called Kosovo representatives have announced they are not interested in the attitudes of the so-called Kosovo representatives. Serbian MPs in the Pristina parliament, whether they will vote to form an army or not, are already moving with a law that speaks of transformation, according to the KSF, Kosovo Security Forces, into armed military forces, in fact. I ask the question of the foreign minister – what will the state of Serbia do about it, will we continue to be silent observers, and will we just figure out the point of the way - so you can see them because they have strong friends? And another question for the president of the state and for the prime minister, given that we have praises from both Shipara and many others, that they have NATO's support of the pact, when will they finally realize that the policy of military neutrality has failed and when will we ask for the entry of the collective security committee headed by the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35799	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35800	Dear Chairman, today I would like to use the right to ask a question that concerns the problem of population policy. In fact, that question has long been recorded with us, and it has been pointed to a major problem that has been going on for decades. For the first time, however, the government has systematically started dealing with this issue and the fight against the white plague, which must be praised in any case, but this is still a question that is of interest to many of our citizens in what way it will continue to develop and what measures the Government will take to this end in the coming period. In fact, we are familiar with the system solutions that, when it comes to population policy, we should certainly commend that. All concrete measures to promote a population policy from the law on financial support to families with children, beyond other measures, such as rewards to socially responsible companies, the introduction of e-baby services, to those measures that are actually aimed at giving economic benefits to raise children, aim to stop the decline of birth, as well as to encourage birth, which is crucial to the survival of the nation and state. In 2017, for example, in 15 municipalities there were several projects that the cabinet of the minister without portfolio, in charge of demographics and population policy, realised and which produced significant results through the application of various stimulating findative measures. In particular, projects implemented in 130 million dinars have resulted in a clear age section being opened in January. Several municipalities have achieved a harmonisation of kindergarten working hours with the needs of their parents. The level of knowledge of reproductive health among young people has been raised. But what may be the most significant contribution of these projects to these municipalities is at present several couples in the out-of-body fertilization process. With this in mind, I would ask Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, since these projects, in addition to other measures to encourage birth, produce significant results, how much of the funds has been provided in the budget of the cabinet of the Minister without portfolios in charge of demographics and population policy for 2018 for the implementation of projects of the most productive policy for local self-government units? Are there projections that this amount is increasing in the coming period, in order to expand the number of municipalities and families covered by these measures, as well as whether new measures are being envisaged in co-operation with experts? Accordingly, I would certainly once again commend all the measures that have been taken so far. The co-operation of this cabinet of ministers without portfolios with units of local self-government, as well as any other measure taken further in order to raise birthrights, develop awareness of the need to preserve and build a family and create families with a higher number of children. In that sense, and to this cabinet itself, as well as the measures of the government that it has taken so far, we are giving support, but we want this scope and scope to continue to increase in every sense in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35801	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35802	Thank you. My question goes back to the address of the foreign ministry and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, with a certain surprise that they were suddenly, quite frankly, ever since I started asking lately, stopped arriving otherwise neat answers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which were neat and up-to-date, so I commended them here. Since then, about, somehow there's no answer. My question concerns and concerns today's meeting in Sofia, and I mentioned that a few weeks ago, a meeting where representatives of the European Union meet with so-called. to partners from the Western Balkans, i.e. candidates for EU membership, a meeting that is thunderingly announced as a new milestone and a final turning point on the European path of the Western Balkan countries towards the EU. I asked, for example, by calling for the behaviour of Spain and their Prime Minister Rahoe - what does Serbia do and whether it co-ordinates its efforts and its activities in connection with this Sofia summit with Spanish diplomacy and the Spanish government? Although the answer has not arrived, the answer is more than clear. Obviously, we didn't coordinate these efforts, otherwise we'd act and place ourselves at least as Spain, who doesn't want to participate in a summit that has so-called participation. Kosovo, with a star, no stars, anyway. So Spain does not participate in the summit where we happily left, or sent our highest delegation. And it's in itself worrying, bad, terrible, and, I would say, humiliating. The thing gets almost comical when we remember that it'll soon be 15 years from the so-called. The EU summit in Thessaloniki in July 2003, be careful, in 2003 in Greece, as Greece then chaired, when given, quote, or paraphrase – a clear European perspective for Western Balkan countries. So it has been 15 years of dizziness, promises, waving carrots and more sticks in different forms, and today, as we see and how from the announcements, the matter will end with giving a clear European perspective to the candidates of the Western Balkans. Even the word "membership" has been left out. Even the word: "membership" is just for Spain's insistence left out of the final document and is replaced by an optional formulation – a European perspective. Just like 15 years ago. On the other hand, not the country is mentioned, again thanks to Spain, but only partners from the Western Balkans, just because it would not prejudge the status of so-called. Kosovo. In other words, not only has Spain again proved to be a major defender and a major opponent of Kosovo's independence from our delegation, which, I repeat and stress, is in the highest composition in Sofia, but given these proposals, it has been shown that 15 years have been wasted, on the one hand, in empty more or less flossules and stories of the so-called so-called. the European perspective. Fifteen years, almost a year old, there's talk about it actively, and we haven't seriously moved on since the beginning. And in the meantime, step by step, humiliation by humiliation, concession by concession, different sets, I have nothing against it, but no doubt thanks to the decisive most visible steps made by this very government, and this is sometimes boasting and sometimes hiding, depending on political conukture, means, at the same time, Serbia step by step, mic by mic, disowns those last parts and elements of territorial sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, all on behalf of that European perspective. In the meantime, I only mention the names half-forgotten in our public, the German representatives who dealt with us and the region, from Ambassador Cobel, via Shopinhov, to Guido Westerwelle. So European, in this case German, but European officials who promised us that European perspective died in the meantime. They disappeared, not from diplomacy but from life, and we did not move away from the beginning, except in the name of this phantom perspective, as I said, we gave up those remaining elements of Serbia's statehood, or territorial integrity in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35803	The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35804	Dear MPs, respected Serbian citizens, I have a question for the acting minister of finance, in this case it is Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Since it was carried out that in the first quarter of the budget we were recorded in the six and a half billion-euro surplus, I am interested in – what is the total amount of VAT that has not been paid back to legal persons within the legal deadline, since, therefore, we boast about that surplus in the budget, and the figure due to VAT firms is about 30 billion dinars, so one almost five times larger than that expressed surplus? I am also interested in – what is the average delay in VAT returns to legal persons in the days and by what criteria is the payment of late VAT vomiting, since when that legal deadline expires, how does it even determine who is the first to get in line for that payment? Is this the time to make a solution or is it some other criteria? Just to point out that the biggest VAT refund seekers are mostly exporting companies, so if it's true that we transferred those 30 billion dinars of unreturned VAT to them that the state owes them, and we keep talking about how we want to develop the economy, encourage exports, it seems to me that this way of treating them is not very good. I would like to ask you the same question for the acting Minister of Finance's office, when will proposals for the final budget bill for 2015 and 2016 be submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that our meeting will take place soon two years and we have never had a chance to discuss the final budget account for 2015 and 2016, and soon in June the deadline for the 2017 budget? In addition, I have a question for the interior minister and the government's office for Kosovo and Metohija – as far as the investigation into Oliver Ivanovic's murder has taken place, since his associates fear that the investigative authorities are being pressured and that the time has elapsed, the chances of a quality investigation being done and that the perpetrators and commanders of this murder are getting less and less? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35805	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35806	Thank you. I refer the first set of questions to the Anti-Corruption Agency, then to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and all those responsible for economic crime, as well as Ana Brnabic, who took over as finance minister. Namely, are they familiar with the corrupt actions in which the pharmacy “Pančevo” participated, then MP Željko Sušec and Smiljka Sušec, for which there are also evidence and witnesses that the mother of the MP and our colleague Željko Sušec, and the corrupt actions have been related since 2013 and several years after that, what do I own evidence? If all the authorities I refer to have no knowledge of, here, I am publicly offering evidence and extracts from payment cards showing that Pančevo pharmacy has been paying almost 40,000 euros for several years at the expense of the trade store "Gigi", owned by Smiljka Susec, or the mother of MP Zeljko Sušec. Among the goods that were overly needed in terms of, I say, almost 40,000 euros are various canvas bags, bags, etc. By the way, the craft construction "Gigi" was registered on 30 May 2018, and since it was registered as a public space since July, intensive monthly payments have been made to this craft shop, and according to witnesses' statements, and since this is a public space, consider it a public declaration, the MP also had knowledge and knowingly participated in this corrupt chain, because he himself personally brought bills to the drugstore "Panchevo" for his mother's entrepreneurial business, Smiljke Sušec, which was also done by his sister. So I'm asking, therefore, both the Agency and the MUP and the competent economic crime, as well as the prime minister, do they have any knowledge of this corrupt chain? If they don't, I insist they call me or I can simply send them all this evidence. If they have knowledge, I want to know what has been done on this issue, since Zeljko Susec has not registered around four million dinars, or nearly 40,000 euros in his report on the Anti-Corruption Agency. So he didn't even pay taxes on it all and he confessed in such a way that he participated in this corrupt chain. Next question I refer to Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Zoran Djordjevic. Namely, is there knowledge or what is possible, if any, about the initiative and intends to take over Vladimir Jovanovic's name as Maradona, presented as an MMA fighter, who was shot in front of kindergarten, according to police information, while leading a child in kindergarten preparing papers at the Public Communal Company "Green" in Panchev, where he is employed, to treat this as a work injury? I ask additional Minister Djordjevic, is that an injury at work, because that means that if it is, that an assassination was committed on a state-owned company employee? I am free to claim that this should then be an event of national interest, that someone shoots employees in a public enterprise in the middle of the day at 7:30 in the morning, even if they are not from Belgrade, which usually requires greater attention. Here, it happened 17 kilometers in Pancheva. Minister Djordjevic, I am sure that I have more information than I do about this, since he and Andreja Vukic visited fights with Vladimir Jovanovic on several occasions at various MMA tournaments. Also, Maradona is a member of the SNS, was also a SNS committee member and I am sure that Minister Djordjevic, if he does not have a professional one, at least has a personal interest in establishing this, given all the information, points out that it was a criminal shooting, not that someone got five bullets in the stomach, by being on a work assignment in front of the Zelenilo company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35807	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35808	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My questions will concern the city of the Kings and the city of Cačka. The first question goes to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, who last visited the Kingdom in talks with the city's authorities, said there was nothing from Morava airport for now, but that Moravski Corridor would be done. No matter how important the Durres-Tirana route has been made by the citizens of the city of Kraljev, and now after talking to Mr. Vukic with Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the road to Sarajevo, we ask how far did the project come with Corridor Moraevski? When will his construction begin and when will he be finished? I note that the Moravski Corridor should bring together Pojate and Preljina, to pass the town of Kruševac, the town of Kraljev, to the town of Cačka, so through a territory where more than half a million inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia live, central and western Serbia. The second question, Mrs. Zorani Mihajlovic, Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, and regarding the first question, as the prime minister said that there is nothing from the Morava airport in Brodjevci so far. Citizens of the city of Kings are interested in when the plane will take off from the airport? I mean, when are the planes gonna take off from the airport? The government in the town of Kralje has, however, made a concert for the group "Piloti" some 20 thousand euros a while ago, and despite being opened twice by Boris Tadic, for the second time by Minister Mihajlovic, we are interested in when the first planes will land and the pilots will certainly be on that plane when the plane lands, and we do not need these concerts? The environment minister, Mr Trivan, questions whether an environmental risk assessment of the production processes to be carried out in the announced factory in the King, to be built by the Turkish investor Euro Tai? According to the available data, the factory will work on the texas stone, and further processing of the texas should be done in tailoring shops in Novi Pazar. Since the Turkish investor has no factories anywhere in Europe, it has not complied with European standards on its standards of environmental pollution prevention, and the location of the future factory is close to West Morava, and there is a real ecological danger that this part of the coast of West Morava and the surrounding city of Kralje is polluted. So will the competent ministry provide information on whether this information is correct, and if it is correct, what will they do in this direction? The question to Mr. Sarčević, Minister of Education, is whether the Ministry of Education will give permission to further uninterrupted work of the Agricultural School in Kralje, otherwise the oldest agricultural school in Serbia, since it has given the city of Kralje 13 hectares of land that served as a smooth exercise of practical teaching as a possibility of buying to the investor "Leoni"? He thus questioned the further work of the school, and to this day the city did not offer a different country, the same area, so that the work could continue uninterruptedly. So, what's going to happen to this problem because the start of the new school year and enrollment in the new school year is very close? Minister Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government is the question of whether the competent ministry will do something about scandalous funds from the city's budget to local media, when one local television with its project "For Advanced Kraljevo", received 80 times more funds than the other two televisions, which reported the irregular and incorrect distribution of funds from the city's budget of the Kings, thus preventing possible theft? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35809	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35810	I thank the chairman. I would, as I have so far, ask a few questions about life, the specific life of our citizens, the question they ask me in my area, in southeastern Serbia. One of these issues is, since it was heard several times in the previous period and last year, and this year in the media by some of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and it is related to the pension-inhabitation law. For those people who retire earlier than 65 years, who have one of the conditions of 40 years of employment, according to that law that I voted, people have pens for each year that leave earlier than 65 years and in this way they have a reduction in pension for the rest of their lives, depending on whether they go into 61, 62, 63 or 64 years, and the question is whether or not they are going to enter into the process of changing this law in this part? There were more announcements by the ministry, and that's what really interests me because it is a question of a number of people who have acquired conditions, one of the conditions of 60 years, or 40 years of employment, and now they're waiting for the situation to go into retirement, to have a reduction of those 5, 10, 15, 20% for the rest of their lives, but only to be until they're 65 years old, that future pensioner. Another question is about the development of agriculture. Without the membership and work on the work and the change of the Law on Cooperation or Sublegal Acts, it will be difficult to do the same. In our areas, I speak specifically of undeveloped areas, such as the municipality where I come from, such as municipalities in southeastern Serbia, we are witnessing that a large number of fields, now, as they say, have no one to process them, because these people have aged, can't work, their young ones don't come there and that their country needs to work, to work out to keep people alive. I'm interested in whether the Ministry of Agriculture in the coming period, I expect very quickly, to enter into the business, to pass the Law on Cooperation, because we are all aware that without the integration of the country, without the accumulation, without the investment in agriculture on land that really has the possibility of working, there is no development of agriculture. Otherwise, the German government's GIZ has already helped to get into the process of adopting certain rules in the conflict, and it's a really important issue for me to know, because in this way we'll really have a chance when we do the cohesion, when we do voluntary grouping of the country, for our agricultural producers and in our undeveloped areas, we'll have a great chance and a chance to stay there to live, that young people who want to deal with agriculture, who can use subsidies given by the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the integration of the country, they can really continue to live there and that we can actually have success and the future and in these small, undeveloped municipalities such as the municipality of Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babushnica and a number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia. Once again, since I really always speak as a real Serbian host, as a Orthodox, I would take the opportunity today to congratulate the Belgrades on the glory of Spasovdan, the town of Belgrade to congratulate the glory of Spasovdan, with the desire that Belgrade and the Belgrades and all of us go forward, to make it much better, to develop these border areas and to develop agriculture. I would congratulate, normally, and Nisavsky Management County the same day, today's glory of Spasovdan, with the desire for our Nisavski district to move forward, to develop there, to have children, to live better there, and normally, as I come from Svrlig, today is the same glory of the monastery of the Lord, which is located in the village of Labukovo, it is a village on the border with the municipality of Sokobanja. Congratulations, and to all my people, this day has been saved, with the desire for all of us to live better in Serbia, to have health, happiness and success in every way. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35811	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35812	Thank you. Requesting full information from the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. The content of the information whose delivery I request concerns a strike in "Kajzen", which happened recently, and the information I request from the minister is to answer my question - what did the minister, or the minister in charge of the ministry, do from the section of his jurisdiction, and what was done during the strike in "Kajzen"? I believe we all know what's happened in the last week. In "Kaisen", workers went on strike with a request to pay back their backs, overtime and a requirement to improve their work, a common union requirement in all normal countries. What is not common, and this should be the content of the information I request from the minister, is the employer's reaction and the lack of reaction from any of the authorities. So, the employer addressed the public that the recent strike in our company, that it was without a basis, that it was not organised in accordance with the law, that the strike was not announced, and the information from the strike workers was that it prohibits trade union organisation, which is also a violation of the Law on Strike and jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs. In the second phase of this arrogant, illegal and highly harmful Serbia-wide announcement by the employer "Kaisen" was that they were not given the opportunity to respond to employee requests, to try to reach an agreement, and that the suspension of production threatened the fulfillment of our international clients' obligations and caused major reputation and financial damage to "Kezen". My message and this part of my request for information are not sent to the Minister, it is sent to the employer, or to the people who run the "Kezen". Your reputation shame is a shame to keep women at work for 12 hours, not to be given union organization and treated as slaves. It's a reputation, financial and any other shame and damage. My question is why is it even possible to happen in Serbia? The answer to that question is quite easy to find. You know, this illusion and the constant repetition that we need to do jobs, create jobs, that there is no job, one of the most terrible and tragic delusions of the fundamental rights of every man, woman and man living in Serbia. There's work to be done, and the slaves had work to do. Women are busy every day, hanging out every day, from early morning to night. Earnings are a problem. If people in Serbia told employers, and on behalf of love, that they would work for free, everyone would have a job. This kind of conduct of the management is, apart from being illegal under the regulations that this Assembly has made, I think, a good start to open a dialogue where do we have the right to deny workers what is written in these regulations? Where do you get the right to speak, be silent for 22 or 25 thousand, for it can be worse? Where do you get the right to prohibit the union organisation of workers and at the same time the same minister whom I request full information on the handling of the case "Kaisen" tells us that we are changing according to the prescription of European integration? In this Europe, in which you say that we are changing, there is nothing in reality but mocking European integration. In this Europe, workers have the right to strike, trade unions are required in dialogue with the employer and the government and strikes are a common phenomenon in democratic society. The maltreatment of workers and the ban on strike, as well as – here is 25,000 and that is a lot of you, humiliation, humiliation and all that is obviously happening not only in "Kajzen" and this mockery of the employer who has promised 800 workers, and the employment of 350 is not happening in Europe. When it happens, then the minister says - he can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35813	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? My colleague Birmanevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35814	The Honorable Chairman, in the basic court in Sapac, the trial process is under way for mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic's abuses and for the purposeless spending of the 2015 budget, not less than five million euros. I ask the question to Deputy Prime Minister and Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic – when will the members of the Ministry of Serbia's Ministry for the fight against organised crime in the interests of all citizens of Sapac, but also Serbian citizens, exercise control over the business of the city administration, given that the DRI control of budget spending for 2015 has identified irregularities and abuse of five million euros? I repeat, the trial is under way. What is the question, which is the need for an answer, right through the Office for Combating Organized Crime, because there is no other way to call spending from the budget of five million euros, is that – which company, which individual and who had the right to drag their hand into the case of the budget of the town of Sapca and to spend five million euros? Among other things, the funds were spent in amounting to 297 million dinars more than approved apropriations, 86 million dinars are obligations whose legal basis is not in accordance with the applicable regulations, 89 million dinars without valid credible documentation, 31 million dinars without a contract or other written act, 42 million dinars without public procurement, etc., with the abuse of never ending. I repeat, a request from the police minister on behalf of the citizens of Sapco and Serbia to get an answer to the question -- who spent five million euros on the citizens of Sapca from the 2015 budget, without public procurement, without legal basis, without valid documentation, without a contract? Citizens deserve the truth, and thieves are punished according to the law and the size of the abuses they have committed. The second question is asked by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, finance minister, as well as ministers Ruzic and Djordjevic. Of course, in line with the business that was established in 2015 which was not an election year, the abuses were even higher in 2016 because the elections were under way. It has been proven that by buying votes, which has also been recognised and confirmed in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, among other things, have made a majority with assistance that is now in power. What continues is the employment of party activists and committeemen who are exclusively on the side of the support and the majority led by Nebojsa Zelenović, as a student in Šapac and the republic of the famous Dusan Petrovic, better known as Mr 10%, and in accordance with this employment without the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a violation of the law, and what is safe and reliable information, it is that the Management Inspectorate has just established a series of irregularities and the minutes of the city's administration chief proposed 10 measures to remove irregularities, while the appeal committee of the City of Sapca has been submitted a proposal to cancel the working relationship and annul the illegal final decisions of the city administration chiefs for a total of 10 illegal employees. The Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the Labour Inspectorate also found that in four public enterprises, which are controlled by Nebojsa Zelenovic, there was employment on a fixed and indefinite basis, again without the approval of the Republic, without the Commission's approval of the Employment Government. In addition, I have sent a call and a request to the budgetary inspection, which is responsible for everything that has been established by the inspections from the two ministries, to do the control of the city's budget, i.e. employment in the city administration and local public enterprises. I expect a reaction from the Ministry of Finance, or a budget inspection. Despite everything mentioned on March 26th of this year, a committee member who was a member of the SNS parliamentary group in the SNS Assembly of the City of Sapac, moved into a parliamentary group supporting Mayor Zelenovic, by being employed indefinitely in the free zone of Sabac without any consent, approval or competition. Once again, the budget of the town of Šapca is spent without meaning, without public competition, without consent and without respect for the basic employment criteria. Show the citizens of Sapco and the citizens of Serbia that justice is certainly within reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35815	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35816	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – when will the Retirement Law be repealed? That's because these days we're hearing about the IMF, on the one hand, demanding that this law be abolished, on the other hand we listen to the prime minister who says they can't lift that law, because it would practically cut pensions, which doesn't make any sense with truth and essence. Today we hear from Sofia the President of the Republic who sends us a message saying that these days he's been listening to all kinds of nonsense about how the law should be abolished and how he took something away from someone, how he took pensioners. I really don't know if stupidity, when someone and 40% of pensioners felt the consequences of that law, has started to receive fewer pensions since 2014 than before, whether they took it from someone or didn't take it from them. So it's about taking a pension of 700,000 pensioners or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35817	My friend Alexic, you don't ask a question. First, in order to explain to you the state's functioning system, the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister can't take anything. The National Assembly passed the Law. You can ask fellow Members of Parliament, not the President of the Republic when the Assembly will amend the laws. Is he all right? Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35818	So, Mr. Arsic, I understand very well how the system works, I've quoted the President of the Republic who says he's been listening to some nonsense these days that he took something from someone without taking anything from anyone. So, I asked, I'm asking the government right now, because the government is supposed to propose that law here, and why do I ask that? Because they had already begun to come up with solutions for those pensioners who sued the state and who got in court that the state from the budget had to compensate them for the damage. I will read an example of the man who sued for the period from 1 November 2014 to 31 December 2015, where the solution was made to pay the full amount of the pensioner's pension by an unconstitutional, or anti-constitutional law, because the pension was acquired. The profit and property of prosecutors is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as international rights, conventions and contracts. I'm telling you this because someone's gonna have to pay back the 500m euros you've taken from the pensioners all these years. It's their acquired rights, it's their property, it's something they've gained through their work, earned, and no one has the right to break the Constitution and take something that they themselves have acquired. You took the right to do so with pensioners, with employees, to reduce salaries, to reduce pensions with an explanation that the state is in trouble, that certain reforms must be implemented, economic consolidation, but somehow you have implemented these reforms and consolidation on the back of citizens, by pensioners, soldiers, officers, health workers, professors, doctors, while public enterprises have remained and continued to boast, to spend the money of Serbian citizens, the same pensioners you took from, and therefore I ask the question again – do you and when will this unconstitutional, anti-constitutional law be abolished, or when will the government, as you say, send it to the Assembly in the procedure for the adoption of that law? The second question I ask the President of the Republic – when this dialogue on Kosovo will open here in this House, given that he does not miss the opportunity to speak in the media...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35819	My friend Alexich, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35820	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35821	You've run out of time for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35822	You took my time, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35823	I didn't take anything from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35824	How could you not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35825	I'm not taking anything from anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35826	You interrupted me just now...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35827	I'm not taking anything from anyone. Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miletic Mihajlović. We're going back to work. We move on to a unique search on the 21st item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF THE ACTIVITIES OF NATO BOMBANDING 1999. Years of Serbia's health, as well as the impact on the environment, with a special reference to the consequences of the project with the impoverished uranium. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the Commission's proposal for a decision on the Commission's education to investigate the effects of NATO bombing in 1999 on the health of Serbian citizens, as well as the impact on the environment, with a special reference to the consequences that stopped the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. Does the Proposer – National MP Maja Gojkovic, or representative of the promoter – National MP Darko Laketic, want a word? Comrade Laketić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35828	I would first of all like to introduce you to this proposal today, but I will make a brief introduction. Namely, NATO's bombing of SRJ lasted from March 24th to June 10th 1999. I'll remind you that NATO's aggression was carried out without the prior consent of the Security Council. In attacks that lasted for 78 days, aimless targets such as business facilities, so infrastructure facilities, hospitals, schools, churches, cultural objects were targeted. What's particularly significant is that the damage the SRJ had, it's estimated and it'll never be discovered until the end, but it's estimated to be between $60 billion and $100 billion. The final number of victims is also not fully known, but the figure ranges between 1,200 and 3,000 victims, with more than 7,000 wounded. During the actions and aggression of NATO forces on the territory of the sovereign state, SRJ aircraft A10. Why does it matter? Because it was these planes that carried cannons that used missiles, ammunition that was made from the poored uranium. The ammunition was 30 mm and each missile carried 273 grams of impoverished uranium. What we know, and what we will certainly check when the commission is formed, is that there is one information that 112 points in KIM territory are being targeted by these missiles and that there are also nine points in central Serbia's territory, more specifically the Bujanovac, Presevo and Vranje municipalities where these missiles have also been dumped. I say once again, it may be one of the commission's first tasks, to determine exactly where the impoverished uranium has actually reached our country. Let's go back to the health aspect of this topic and I'll start right from that poor uranium. The impoverished uranium is one substance that is produced by enriching natural uranium for use in nuclear reactors. What's characteristic of this substance is that it's extremely cheap, because it represents a by-product in these chemical reactions. Just because it's very cheap, and because it's expensive, it's extremely expensive to store it, and that's the third reason, because it has a great density, some countries unfortunately use this material to make ammunition, especially ammunition that serves to penetrate powerful steel armor. Again, why does this matter? Because when it penetrates such a substance, such a projectile develops through an iron shell a temperature of over 3,000 degrees Celsius and a shell is penetrated, but a characteristic uranium dust is created. I'm poored uranium is unstable. He's pyrophoran, he burns fast and oxidizes and very quickly, right after that action he forms uranium salt, uranium compounds, these are extremely toxic, extremely dangerous chemical compounds. What I would like to stress, and about the future work of the commission, is that we will not only look at the radiological effect of the poor uranium, but we will also talk about and explore the chemical effects of the impoverished uranium because its toxic and chemical effects exceed radiological and not only that. There's pure impoverished uranium, there's dirt-depleted uranium. It's clean. The one I mentioned, it's dirty. It's actually spent nuclear fuel. Unfortunately for us, the aggression against our country was used both. This second one is even worse because, apart from the poored uranium, it has residues, traces of some even more toxic elements such as plutonium and similar, and toxic effects are thus multiplicitous. The long-term effects of poor uranium on the population, on the living world, have been scientifically recorded. Some officials' statements that there are studies where uranium, poor uranium, has no negative effect on health, are studies that exist, but in a small number. To be honest, their origins are questionable. I'll read to you first and foremost proven scientific effects. I'm talking about facts that I'm going to support by scientific reference. Exposure to poored uranium may cause renal impairment in humans. The poored uranium showed cytotoxic, genotoxic and carcinogenic activity in animal studies. Cytotoxic cell devastation, genotoxic destruction of this genetic potential, chromosomes and genomes and carcinogenic cancers, etc. medical malignancies. It's all proven in the IDIVO animal studies. Epidemiological evidence shows that uranium causes reproductive disorders in humans. Then it was proven that in rodents and frogs of uranium salt I was talking about, I'm now talking about chemical toxins, which are soluble in water, have teratogenic properties. And I have to say, that the evidence of health effects that has poored uranium on humans is mostly incomplete, partly due to the fact that only a few dozen people have been found to have been exposed directly to high doses of poor uranium. It has also been demonstrated that after ammunition with impoverished uranium was used during the armed conflict, the presence of poored uranium and uranium compounds in the country and water or on equipment in buildings may depend on a large number of factors, but it also poses a short and long-term risk to the health of the local population. This has been scientifically proven and there are scientific references for all of this. What is also particularly important, which has been proven and confirmed by many authors in their scientific studies, is that the risk of contamination of the poor uranium is difficult to control, precisely because I said that after burning the poored uranium, uranium dust is formed, where wind currents can take this material to really many remote places. What did scientists, a large number of reference scientists say about that? Some authors believe that depending on meteorological conditions, the range of radioactive rainfalls of the aerosol of the impoverished uranium is virtually unlimited. It was proven by Leonard Dietz, a nuclear physicist, one of the domiciled in the area. Then, according to Kuwait studies, the aerosols of the impoverished uranium remained in the air for at least two years and flew to Saudi Arabia. That's what Katherine Euler proved. For all of this, I have references. Also, what is very important to us, and also verified by scientific research, during the aggression of the SRJ, in the course of the largest to say NATO attacks of aviation and the fall of these missiles with impoverished uranium, is measured 25 times more radioactivity in Greece and eight times higher in Bulgaria, when winds practically carried that content, that dust with KIM towards these countries. Now I'm going to chronologically present some data that, unfortunately, are being misused and abused in the media in the last few days. After NATO's aggression against KIM, the United Nations sent their team, its commission tasked with investigating not only the health impact but also the environmental impact. In 2001, so the UNEP team, the UN team, arrived in KIM and 2001, already published its first preliminary report. The report said this - there is no widespread contamination in KIM in the area of use of impoverished uranium. This contamination is only within 10 to 15 meters of the missile's fall. That's the first point. The second point – there is no contamination of water, and the third point – has no direct impact on human health. That was their report. In 2002, to deny themselves, the same commission also said -- in Kosovo not only contaminated sites marked on military maps, but on at least five zones, there is a zone of huge and wide contamination, which ultimately does not pose a threat to human health and the environment. In order to immediately after that, the largest name in the area of radiation impact on human health, Mr Christopher Basby, has found and proved that the UNEP report is not reliable, that none of these claims are correct. I quote his reference, his published work and his statement - none of the above claims are correct and that, since the external exposure is not the main type of exposure, because, you can imagine, medically speaking, during the acute bombing phase, this dust is created and the entrance path is inhaled, so the entry path of the toxin that the cause is inhaled, then a man can inhale that dust. However, since these salts are soluble in water, there are them in the environment, the entrance route is ingestions, so through the digestive tract and Chris Basby, the famous scientist has proved just the great gaps in the work of the commission. So he said that external exposure is not the main type of exposure and he believes that the wrong model was used to assess the risk of exposure to poor uranium. This is the British expert's claim I think is sufficient reason for us to boldly move on with our commission. Let us boldly investigate, first of all, for proving the truth for our people. A special dimension of this problem is an investigation of the Italian parliament. In fact, since 2005, the Italian Parliament has formed a commission to investigate the effects of poor uranium on human health, environmental impact, and even they are not only investigating poor uranium but also the impact of asbestos, radon, etc. What is significant, and it is related to the work of Italians, is that the commission has done its job very studioly, but unfortunately it has been under a lot of pressure from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, as well as from NATO forces. That's what the President of the Commission, Mr. Djan Piero Skanu, told me in a direct conversation. A special importance and great effort and great courage showed the last commission just under his leadership. Mr. Djan Piero Skanu and his associates, whom I have met, who are top experts, were also MPs, but there were also top experts in many areas, were able to prove a causal relationship between the increased incidence of malignant blood diseases, malignant areas in Italian soldiers located in the Metohija sector, or in the KIM sector, therefore, where they were housed on the other side of the impoverished uranium and noxies that operated precisely during that period. Now we can definitely say, because they have proven, to the emergence of the disease. What is particularly significant, and it is important for these Italian soldiers and in general for the Italian state, is that they have established an institute of qualified probabilities. Namely, by compatriating cases, i.e. persons of appropriate age in the territory where they were with the combination of the incidence of disease in persons of the same age in the territory where there were no toxins, they came up with statistical significance and practically they are no longer doing classical proof, but they are using this qualified probability institute. What does that really mean? The institute allowed Italian soldiers to receive compensation for sickness damage, without proving a direct causal link, assuming that the disease was due to conditions in the environment. It's a big deal for their country. I'll list a few of the most significant testimonies in the report. I, in effect, took over that commission report. The report has been translated and I can say that this report has been done very studioically and will serve as an extraordinary basis for our work. As the first testimony that is very important, I'm going to state Professor George Trent's testimony. Professor Gjorge Trenta is otherwise president of the Association for the Protection of Emissions of the Republic of Italy, one of the most respected and distinguished professors. During his testimony to the commission, he said the following - impoverished uranium, during combustion, thus creating characteristic uranium dust, uranium dust and micro and nanoparticles, which are thus direct causes of cancer, malignancies. That's a statement by George Trente, which was verified in the commission's report. Afterwards there was a huge storm in the Italian public, there was pressure from the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence. Did he really say it or not, but in the end, a letter came to Mr. Trenta, who referred to Mr. Skanu, where he literally said that he literally said what I'm saying today. So uranium is a taskmaster, nanoparticles are responsible directly and microparticles for cancer. However, what is specific in Italy unlike some other countries? In Italy, even the General Staff of the Italian Army does not deny that the impoverished uranium is harmful. That's what it says in this document. Therefore, the General Staff of the Italian Army says - the poored uranium is harmful, but they justify themselves in front of the Commission – but we did not use the poored uranium. But that's not a good thing, let it benefit those Italian soldiers who have been ill in the Kosovo and Metohija sectors where they are. What's very important and what I'm going to mention is another fact that is very important for us. The US Armed Forces also notified the Italian military summit in 1994 of the risks of using such ammunition. So much so that the U.S. Armed Forces didn't know that it was harmful or that it denied any harmfulness. The impoverished uranium has a harmful effect on human health. The point is that we prove it. What has proved to be an important newspaper in the course of a parliamentary investigation through a number of assemblies of Italian parliaments is the knowledge that the real importance of the problem of poor uranium and its harmfulness in a specific reality can only be recognised if it is viewed as one of the aspects of the general issue of military exposure in their cases, all those risk factors that exist in the civil sector, in addition to those that are specific in their environment. These are some premises, some postulates, some methodology that we'll use in our research. It's a particularly interesting case, and I'm going to point it out, Colonel Enio Letieri's case. In fact, Mr. Letieri was the commander of the medical force in the Italian KFOR sector. He said in his testimony to the Italian Parliament's committee: "I have personally identified the presence of high concentrations of carcinogenicity in water intended for the supply of an Italian contingent, all in the context of scarce, inefficient health supervision of the Italian military and serious environmental hazards, which the command has completely underestimated and ignored." Then based on the testimony of this man, who is truthful and admitted to the commission, it is clear to you that the effects of the poored uranium exceed even some of our perhaps darkest assumptions. That is why the methodology of the work and conclusions of this commission and this report will be the basis for the work of this committee and one of the first witnesses to our commission will be Mr. Djan Piero Skanu. What is particularly significant, you saw in the very name of this commission, we will not be limited to the effects of the poored uranium, first because the poored uranium has more significant chemical toxic effects than radiological, first of all, and secondly, I will tell you why. Because during NATO bombings, other than military targets, the target of the attack was energy plants, the plants of the chemical industry, the color industry, which caused the release of chemical substances at high concentrations. The most important among them are ammonia, azotic oxides, benzenes, dioxins, dichloroethane, polyvinyl chloride, polychlorinated biphenyls, vinyl chloride, a monomer of phenols that are toxic to the liver and a digestive tract, fosogene, chlorine, hydrochloridic acid, Styren, sulfur-dioxide, heavy metals. What's common to all these substances is that their effects on human health are difficult and long-term. Dear fellow Members of the People, I therefore propose that we form a proposed committee, so I am potentialing a medical human aspect of our work. Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, it is our duty to establish the truth and our obligation to the citizens of this country to determine what is causing the increased rate of malignancy, malignant blood diseases, congenital anomalies, that is our duty. The results of which the commission should come and when they come will imply both the legal and political dimension and pave the way for both the legal and political functioning of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35829	I would like to thank my colleague Laketić. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a considerable delay, has put this problem on the agenda. It was supposed to be done in the early 2000s, but we know that the state was then under one disguised aspect of the occupation, occupations from the same ones that bombed us, so there was no theoretical chance of that happening. But it's not too late now, now we may be more thoroughly prepared because there are already books published on the subject, and even a doctoral dissertation that I've had the honor of looking at. How important that question is, first of all, how upset that Scott, the American ambassador, is. You might think, Scott says -- it's not the poored uranium that's responsible for the spread of the number of cancer patients, it's smoking. Blowed Serbia. However, in Serbia, in 1998, of the total number of citizens, there were 44% of smokers, direct smokers, and today there are 38%. So 6% less should also reduce the number of cancer patients, at least from those species that have been proven to directly affect their occurrence, especially when it comes to lung cancer. And what do our statistics say? In 1998, when we had 44% of the total population, there were 18,841 people who had cancer, so from the total population – adults, old people, women, children, etc., 12,162. That figure is starting to rise rapidly. As early as 2005, 24,369, cancer patients and 14,000 deaths, in 2015 there were 38,066 cancer patients and 21.865 deaths. I don't have any data for 2017 yet, but we don't have any other factors that, apart from tobacco smoke and these classic forms of carcinogenic disease inducers, such as various artificial substances, silicones, asbestos, etc., all of this would take time, the use of these substances that have been proven to be carcinogenic and reduced, better control of food processing, and this number of patients. The only cause can be the bombing of poor uranium plus, which we must not forget, the destruction of various objects across Serbia that have led to the leak of harmful matter and pollution. In addition to the impoverished uranium, the greatest danger threatens the pyrenas – the most endangered are Kragujevac and the environment, Bor and the environment and the living – the most endangered are Pančevo and Novi Sad. Watch out, every affected trafo station has caused environmental pollution dangerous to human health, each affected trafo cells without talking about larger objects. Fortunately, the Serbian government, in which I had the honour of doing these jobs right now, because I led the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance, has conducted a dislocating of all chemical substances from "First Spark" from Baric. Otherwise, if it had been hit, all of Belgrade would have died. We took it out in time to the tanks, removed it to a safe place, I'll never tell you where, and today it's a secret, but it didn't endanger anyone, everyone was saved. That was the most dangerous thing in all of Serbia, and we have already brought it out of Belgrade on the first days, outside the area of populated places, to a safe place. You see, when it comes to impoverished uranium, we have one tragic experience that preceded the 1999 bombing. We have experience of the bombing of Republika Srpska, according to some data, there have already been some targets in 1994 of the poored uranium, no more than 1995, and the worst loss of a place called Hadziqi, that is the city municipality of Sarajevo, a peripheral municipality in a rather narrow boiler. We had particularly important military facilities there. They were mostly remont facilities, but NATO wanted for its known reasons to shake out the poored uranium, most of all after the Dayton Agreement, the Serbian people of Hadzic, it was a majority Serb municipality and before the war, moved to Bratunac and died instantly. There's an incredible percentage of cancer mortality. I don't want to say it by heart now, I haven't had the data in front of me in a long time, but it's all very verifiable and all of Republika Srpska knows it. This rate of mortality in Serbia is at the top of the mortality rate of the disease across Europe. You see, we were shot with scraps. The impoverished uranium is nuclear waste after the enrichment of uranium used for nuclear weapons and used for atomic power plants. That's what every country that has atomic power plants is struggling to store atomic waste. The Americans have come to realize that one part of this waste is being used for what's called the so-called waste. Conventional weapons, or ammunition for conventional weapons, because it has multiple breakthroughs, especially when it comes to tanks, when it comes to walled objects, when it comes to fortifications. Instead of hiding it somewhere, sheltering it in the rocks, at the bottom of the ocean, in protected barrels, as the process of decay, I found different data, between a billion and four billion years. It's indestructible. They decided at one point to raise 10 tonnes of poor uranium to Serbia and solve the problem of nuclear waste storage. Now you Serbs see what you will do with your genetics, what you will do with your offspring. What's dangerous here, look out, they were the most targeted at KIM. Out of targets in the rest of Serbia, they targeted the area of Vranj, Bujanovac and Presevo. There are a large number of places in Kosovo -- two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve whose environment was shot with nuclear waste. There are the biggest victims of Albanians, their friends, their allies who pushed them into a rebellion against Serbia into civil war, thus mutilating them. They have the most disabled children, sometimes with two heads, sometimes with extra limbs, deformed animals, etc. It is far, far, far more present than in the rest of Serbia. But Ibar is a river that pours into West Morava and means the entire sea basin from the King to the Smederev is threatened. We have to get these things into the Danube, too. Each of us can count on having some of that in his system. That could be determined by nanotechnology devices. This nano technology is quite fantastic science, because it deals with materials that are microscopically barely visible, but they have their facts and facts in every man. Who knows how much we're going to carry in our genes and how much we're going to carry in our own organism and how much we're going to carry it. A huge number of animals are endangered in this way, infected. The plant food is infected. Of course, the most where the most intense target was, but not only Serbia, but Hungary and Romania and Bulgaria and Macedonia, and even Albania itself, could not protect those high mountains from this concentrated target of poor uranium. Ladies and gentlemen, I've already said, I have here a book published on that subject. I read it. I won't read it to you, read for yourself "A crime in war, genocide in peace", the consequences of NATO bombing Serbia in 1999. The authors are Vladislav Jovanovic, Slobodan Petkovic and Slobodan Cikalić. It's a book that our board should come from. From reading that book to moving on, to consider all suitable materials. You see, what's the matter with that poor uranium? If he had concentrated, he would have fallen to one place, so that we watered him with enough concrete or lead, and then concrete, he wouldn't have been a danger, but he spread across the territory, and most of all in Kosovo. Self-inflicted radiation, a small dose of that radiation causes cancer in humans. This was inhaled by cattle, people consumed despite this poored uranium, according to Mr. Slobodan Cikaric, one of the authors of the book, was used by an even more dangerous plutonium of 239 used for American atomic bombs. It is, therefore, to throw plutonium is ten times more a crime by the estimate of Mr. Cikaric than to throw only poored uranium. A number of these bombs were also supplied with plutonium. Four locations in southern Serbia, most bombed in the vicinity of Vranja, are Pljačevica, Borovac, Bratosolci and Reljana, and should be sent immediately there by expert teams to investigate on the ground. Land studies, air tests, water tests, studies of people living there, corpses of cancer and domestic and wild animals. You see, in their country, the Americans shut down the plant that used penetrating uranium from the impoverished uranium because it increased the radiation of 380 grams of uranium. They removed those devices, and they threw them at Serbia and partially on Montenegro. Over Serbia-Montenegro, it burned down, not only to talk about poor uranium, 16,500 tonnes of kerosene in less than three months, and this has consequences. Then 20 tons of chlorine went into the atmosphere due to the bombing of Petrochemy in Pancheva. That was April 15, 1999. The destruction of oil warehouses has led to the release of huge amounts of carbon – dioxide, but special groups of highly carcinogenic compounds, which represent polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Elevated amounts of dioxins and furans, also carcinogenic substances are registered only in Thrace, Greece in April 1999. About three and a half billion kilos of land has been moved away due to the explosion of bombs and the country being moved, in a way it's definitely poisoned. Fluorochloric acid, I said, that was 165 tons, the authors of one of these texts, that's Danica Grujičić, she thinks we dropped it in the Sava, 160 tons of fluorodonic acid from Baric we didn't drop in the Sava. If we dropped her or if she was hit, all of Belgrade goes away. We took that out on time to the tanks. And if anything is due to this Serbian government in 1999, it is that it saved Belgrade in time, knowing what these villains are and not hesitate to target the most dangerous objects. In Pancheva and Novi Sad, the Danube has gone three tons alive. This is the data again according to Danica Grujic, who was seriously involved in this. The new Sad, Bor, Kragujevac and Panchevo were declared safe places to live. The radiation has also been increased in Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and Macedonia. The dispersion of an alpha particle blowing through the wind was recorded in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Belarus, Romania and Hungary. Alpha particles are a kind of cosmic particles that are more deadly at a higher concentration, destroy everything, destroy everything. It wasn't such a concentration here, but it was a concentration that was observed and that was already in itself dangerous. In addition to Novi Sad and Pančev, Bor and Kragujevac, the contaminants are still Lucans, Prahovo, Raško, Vrbas, Nis, Pristina, Leskovac, Vranje. The global average of malignancies is 2,000 per million people. In Serbia, the number of 5,500 per million inhabitants is 2.7 times the world average. I've collected some more information. This is from the doctoral dissertation of Dr. Miljana Stojanović Milosavljevic, who defended the doctoral dissertation several years ago at the Faculty of Biology. He talks about various types of contamination, and he pays particular attention to the spilling of the pirate oil that entered the food chain, and he explored the waters of the Lepenica River from its entry into Kragujevac to the inflow in Morava, as well as the factory circle “Stats”, which was recruited on 9 and 12 April. Then a trapo station was destroyed and five transformers were damaged, so that the pyral oil was poured into the land and through the rainy sewerage reached the Lepenica River. Pyralen is the most accumulated, as the doctor says, in fat tissue and the most harmful effects can be expected in fish, snakes, birds and mammals. He's the most endangered man, of course, because he's addicted to both plant and animal food. A short time ago, Mr. Laketic spoke about the UN commission dealing with this issue. I've also read a little bit of it, studied it, and I have to mention a man named Bakari Kante. He's the Senegalese who was the head of the UN programme mission. He submitted a report on the terrible consequences of Serbia's bombing, which has never been published. The UN just locked it in some drawer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35831	You're bringing the end, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35832	He's talking about the horror that made it. I have to commend, by the way, since it's Senegalese, whenever I've met the Senegalese in my life, I have to say that they were extremely serious, honorable people, invulnerable. That was the case with a judge in The Hague, who proved to be honorable and unsuspecting. The same is the one who was working on researching data on Serbia's contamination. What I didn't get to say, it's about this trial that was conducted in Italy, because 7,000 Italian KFOR soldiers suffered from cancer during their stay in Kosovo, 7,000.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35833	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35834	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the JS parliamentary group welcomes what finally came to the agenda to explore and learn the full truth about what was going on and what were the consequences of the NATO Pact bombing in 1999. We are particularly pleased that we belong to this congregation majority who has found the strength to put this item on the agenda after a long time and that the public, not only the Republic of Serbia, but the entire world public, will be familiar with the results that this commission will achieve. I'm sure this commission will do professionally, securely, morally and responsibly its work, that it will come to those results. I would like, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, that the results are negative, that there is no causal-consequential relationship between the number of cancerous diseases in the territories that have been targeted by the impoverished uranium, but I am sure of one thing, I do not prejudge the Commission's decision, but given the statistics, that yet my wish and will will be in vain, that the results will be quite different. What I want to say at the beginning is that I was simply amazed back a few days by reading the daily papers and watching some electronic media suddenly raise NATO protectors, suddenly becoming loud speakers, talking about how poor uranium is not harmful. In particular, it is an amazing statement by a lady, to use that term, otherwise she is not even a "d" lady who loves the NATO Pact, which yesterday, the day before, said, today's press releases it, as the poored uranium is good for bleaching children's teeth. Well, I recommend, ladies and gentlemen, that she take that poor uranium and white teeth to her children, to her grandchildren, to her relatives, and don't recommend that others do so. How is she just not ashamed to make such a public statement? But you know what, the money drills where the burgion won't, and for the damn money, anything can be done. Also, an ambassador of a Western force, whose last name is changed a few days ago, is no longer Scott, but I still retain that earlier last name, that he is Scott, states that an increased number of patients with cancerous diseases where NATO bombs have fallen is the cause of smoking. It's possible that it's just that the statistics Mr. Seselj spoke of are quite different. So that can't be the reason, but it's because NATO villains have dropped bombs on certain territories of Yugoslavia, Serbia, KIM, and it's enriched by the impoverished uranium. Therefore, we do not need to hide the truth. The Italians are members of the NATO Pact. They are friends with many countries, and even from their territory flew planes that bombed Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, Yugoslavia. But they said, based on research conducted by their expert commissions and professional people, their parliament made certain decisions and statistics in Italy, they are saying that there is a causal link between the ill Italian soldiers from cancerous diseases precisely because they were on the territory where NATO bombs were dropped enriched with the impoverished uranium. So I don't think there's much to talk about here. It is simply necessary to give the commission a free hand that in its own way, professional, responsible, moral, as I said, there are certain results, to introduce us to that and to make the whole world aware of what they have done to us neither guilty nor debtors. Reading again the other day, they said they wanted to tear down the non-democratic regime of Slobodan Milosevic, by bombarding Serbia and Yugoslavia. Just one example, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that it was a non-democratic regime that, say, NATO bombed in Barbarian, firing a bridge at the Great Morava, killed the daughter of the then president of the Barvarin municipality, who was from the SPO. So he was from a party that was an opponent of Slobodan Milosevic. How did they, targeting Barvarin, in power of the SPO, want to destroy the non-democratic regime of Slobodan Milosevic? It's just one example, and you have as many examples as you want. Therefore, JS MPs acknowledge this congregation's majority that it may have had the strength to come out with such a draft agenda. I am sure that unanimously, I hope that the opposition will accept the proposal that this commission form, form this commission, wait for these results, to show these world cops that they can't destroy generations, children and grandchildren by throwing the most dangerous bombs with impoverished uranium, in order to satisfy some of their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35835	Thank you, fellow Petrovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35836	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that this commission should be formed and there is no dilemma. There's a lot of reasons. The most important reason for me is that this is a subject that has been a very long topic, lately intensely, very present in the Serbian public and all the topics that have such a character should be explained, there should be facts and show these facts to the public from a place that is competent, which is competent, which has authority in the Serbian public. I mean it for all the other things. When a politician or any other citizen is said to be a thief, then the D.A.'s office should declare itself as soon as possible whether it is true or not. If someone is said to be a traitor, then again, a competent body needs to make a statement as soon as possible about whether it is true or not. No matter what side such slander, report, or whatever you want, it has to be solved. That's why I'm in favour of forming this commission and there's absolutely no doubt that if the voting day is at some normal time, I will come to vote for this proposal. If I'm not here, consider me voting for this proposal. There are a few dilemmas to be solved, and I want to tell you the most well-meaning. First, the deadline given to the commission is too high. It's a year and a half. If I count correctly, the end of 2020 for the first preliminary report. I think it's too long and I think it's a year's worth. This means that July 2019 would be a good time to give the first preliminary report on what facts occurred. I think you can come sooner, but make it a year. Various research has been done so far, and this won't be the first. I am not downplaying the importance of this commission's work and the research it will launch, but I think that, in relation to the research that was done and whose authors gave different interpretations of the impact of the poor uranium and of all other junk that was dumped on our country in 1999, it has already been examined enough and it will make it easier for the new commission, the expert commission, because the Assembly's commission is there to give political weight to this whole research, and of course it needs to involve experts who need to give their expert interpretation, and that experts on both sides -- from a group of those who say there are negative consequences and from a group of those who say that these consequences have not been established. I think it's a good combination and a year is quite enough time to end it. The composition of the Assembly Commission I think is also important and I think that there should be members of all parties, all political groups and those who support this proposal, I will be among those who will support it, and also among those who, if there are those who do not support it. I think they have the right to do that, too, and I expect to be proposed in the composition of this committee. We need to solve a political-technical issue, and that's what we're going to do, how are the commission going to work on Kim territory? We all agree, it's a historical fact, that most of the ammunition with the impoverished uranium is there, almost a whole amount of 10, 15, or I don't know how many tons, how much data. How's the commission gonna work on that territory? Have any consultations already been carried out, whether with an international factor in KIM, or with those with which the current government obviously has good contacts? Will it be possible for the expert commission, the expert bodies, the teams to get an adequate opportunity to explore this topic in KIM territory as well? I think it's very important, because without that knowledge, it's hardly possible to access relevant scientific and professional data. It is certain, once again, that a commission should be formed, that the assembly composition should be such that all political groups are represented in it and that, in the composition of the expert bodies, which will work for the commission, will initially name both, and those who have so far been representatives of one thesis and those who have been representatives of the other thesis. Is this commission supposed to deal with the justification of the 1999 bombing? Absolutely not, there's no excuse for that, nor was there then, nor is there today. The fact that Serbia then had one abnormal power, not only undemocratic, is not a topic to be tied to the bombing and there is no doubt about it. I was then, as today, an opponent of such a way of helping democratic forces, neither we sought nor we were happy that it happened, on the contrary, and there is much historical evidence about it. I think it is very important that the commission in its professional work, i.e. that these expert teams deal with the consequences of other ammunition, other consequences of the bombing. There was everything and everything, everything happened then, blew up. Trafo stations that had those refrigerators in which there was some oil, so it was a dilemma whether there was some Finnish or Swedish production that allegedly wasn't carcinogenic when it exploded or there was a Russian that did. There were various dilemmas. I had this accident to be in a city outside the KIM territory the most bombed during NATO intervention or NATO aggression and I have a personal motive to get as many facts as possible and see what can be done about it. I repeat, there is no reason that could justify the bombing of the NATO Pact in 1999. A commission should be formed with these details to be defined, which is, I think, to shorten the time limit for its operation, in the composition of the expert bodies to take both representatives and other thesis, and to conclude their conclusion as a result of new analyses, and not their previous opinions, to be representatives of all political groups in the assembly section of the commission, and to give, when the whole job is finished, serious suggestions on what can be done with these findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35837	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35838	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. (Darko Laketić: Can I respond as a proposing representative?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35839	I didn't see you in the system. Excuse me, colleague Alexic, I have to delete the list. Sign up, colleague Laketić. It was a full list, and I didn't see you in the system with it. The word has Dr. Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35840	I owe it as a proposal to make a few explanations. As far as the reporting time is concerned, it is therefore envisaged that the commission provides a six-month report to the National Assembly, and that this first preliminary report, I do not say final, but the first preliminary, will be in 2020. Why? I think that's a good time. I will remind parliament of one information that I shared with you today in the opening statement, which is that the Italian Parliament was going to investigate this problem after 2000, formed the first commission in 2005. From 2005 to 2018, they investigated problems. The first and second commission did not come up with relevant data, therefore, there was some information, but not relevant, only this third commission, after so many years, managed to obtain information, the facts made by one step in defence of the rights of these people, primarily their goal was to protect their soldiers. Why am I saying this? Because it's a complex problem, because it's a complex, health, medical, scientific methodology. I'd be very happy, very happy if we could do it within a month and get it over with. But I think it's precisely for these reasons that this timeline, this time distance, is satisfactory and I hope that in this time period we will come up with valid evidence. As for the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, I have already made contact with colleagues from the Faculty of Medicine in Kosovo Mitrovica and with health institutions north of Ibra. I'll get information from medical institutions, also south of Ibra. I'm talking about health institutions where Serbs are treated. I'm going to try, so I'm going to try to get information and all relevant data from all places, I'm talking about the space where the missiles were falling, and I don't think it's instructions that from this distance when the commission hasn't yet been formed I'm talking about it, but my intention is to really in that next period one of the first tasks is to actually be and just verify all the locations, as I said again in the opening statement. As for the composition of the commission, it will definitely be composed of MPs from the ranks of office and opposition. First of all, I will make sure that these MPs are an adequate education from which we will have the root as a commission in our work. So I'm talking about professional orientation, and it's not just going to be made up of people who are MPs. The goal is to expand it, therefore, to those persons who are experts in their fields, because that is the only way we can get to the truth. Also, my duty is another explanation, as the title of this commission's proposal says, it will investigate the effect of all toxins, all the substances that caused it, so it potentially caused malignant diseases and anything that damages health with a special reference to the impoverished uranium. Namely, our dominant story isn't just a radiological effect of uranium. There are a lot of substances whose effect we need to examine, I'm talking about health impact, it's benzenes, it's pyrenes, different chlorine derivatives, not to mention them, but the commission won't limit itself to a radiological moment related to the impoverished uranium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35841	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35842	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the People's Party supports the establishment of this commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing in 1999 and certainly is important because of the future and the nation and our children and once and for all we have come up with valid information about what we have been hearing for decades. However, we ask the question – why is this being implemented right now? Why is a commission like this set up right now? Why hasn't it been implemented before? Why wasn't that commission formed right after the bombing, back in 1999? I will remind you that the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, who then exercised power in Serbia, was practically in power by 2000 and that there was enough time to form one such commission from 1999 to 5 October 2000. And it's formed and it's the essence of the problem. So there were already such and similar commissions that were formed without epilogues and without results. So, in 1999, a commission was also formed and a research was launched immediately after NATO bombing Serbia in 1999 at VMA. He tried to answer the question -- how many soldiers from Kosovo, as well as their descendants, are at risk of contact with the poored uranium? Experts with VMA who participated in this project at the time say a sample of 2,000 soldiers was formed and monitored. The study also included their children born from 2000 to 2004, who are also being treated and controlled in the VMA system and children totalled 1752. Also, a sample of children born before 1999, from 1995 to 1999, were also taken as control. However, although after the review, medical records were received alarming data at the time, I am talking about 1999 after the bombing, that children were born during NATO bombings had frequent anomalies, endocrines and metabolic diseases, as well as malignant neoplasms. For some reason, this research didn't get an epilogue. The official explanation of the current government in 1999 was that the number of respondents was not enough for scientific analysis, and unofficially, then the government stopped the research. In that government then, the government of Mirko Marjanovic, who was in power and when Serbia was bombed in 1999, also took part by some people who, as of today, see the cases, take part in the government. In addition to the current president of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, who served as Minister of Information in the government in 1999, Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabakovic and Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic participated. So, in 1999, the same people participated in the government, when a similar commission was launched to this today, so you hid the results of that commission aside today, in 2018, at this point, that is, a number of people who, even then, participated in the government of our country, suggest the formation of a commission like this at this point. If you ask me, it's best if the bombing didn't happen at all and there's no need to talk about this today, but it's not a question for any of us. The question is for some others who then led the policy of this country and whose policy led to what we need to discuss here today, which is the threat to the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our children and our natural environment. We are the position that this job should be done by the most professional persons, institutions that are relevant and who are competent to deal with this business. Although we support this commission, we believe that it, as an obligation of membership, should have those most relevant in Serbia to deal with this topic. I am not sure that there are experts from this area among us who could make a good contribution to this commission or if the aim of the political commission is, at this point in time, when the president sends a message through the media every day and prepares the public that Kosovo should recognise or sign an agreement or that it will no longer allow wars, etc. So now, let's play with this committee a little bit, as politicians and make a commission. So we think this is a job involving experts and competent people who need to deal with this area. As for us politicians, and we've had the opportunity many times so far, you've adopted six budgets as current government, to raise the budget of the Ministry of Health, above all for early cancer detection equipment. Unfortunately, even a colleague, Dr. Proposer, did not accept our amendments when we proposed to invest in Serbia's health system instead of gondola, Christmas trees and fountains. Then you refused all of our amendments, you didn't talk about them, and then we could talk about that part of the funds should be focused precisely on the equipment and on the medical centres for early detection of cancers and other similar equipment. Of course, this topic that we're talking about today is the result of our policies. When I say ours, I mean Serbia, but also those who ran that policy back then. I'm sorry that today the same people who were actors of everything that was going on back in 1999 are again actors, only in one other role. I want to believe that what happened in 1999 will never happen, but it seems to me that the same actors today, the part of the territory, which is why we were bombed, which is why we have these commissions that you propose to form, will today give part of that territory that killed and fought for the Albanians. He's talking about it all. He's in power with Ramush Haradinaj. Our ministers, our MPs take part in the Kosovo authorities and now there's an ex-post mind to see what was going on, who was guilty and what were the consequences of NATO bombings, from the same people who did power when Serbia was bombed in 1999. Therefore, I call on the President of the Republic to lead the dialogue on Kosovo here in this Parliament, to learn something from the mistakes of the past, not to repeat what was in our history and what we are talking about today, but to come to Parliament and here to the MPs who represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia no matter where they live, in which village, or in what part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and to discuss together with us what Serbian politics is, to come to the conclusion that we will negotiate further and lead dialogue with Albanians, that this dialogue goes here to parliament, not to the media where he talks with leaders or statements that are spread through his regime media, and to discuss with him who is a hero, and who is not a hero, who would go to the trenches to sit at minus 15, and who wouldn't. Because the last time some were sitting and lying in those trenches, while fighting and dying for Serbia, he solved his housing issue and in 1999 provided an apartment, as minister in the Information Government. So... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35843	I'm asking you to get back on the subject. There's no need, really, when it comes to this topic and this kind of debate to deal with these things. At least I don't expect that from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35844	So, as far as the Commission is concerned, I propose on behalf of the People's Party that the most professional people and institutions are engaged in the work of this committee, because the issue is very important and very serious, that this issue is not used in the next period for political purposes where some of us MPs will sit in that commission and re-smart in the relationship between the authorities and the opposition, but that this has one seriousness and that the epilogue of this commission's work, which should, every six months, inform parliament of the results of the work really exists. So that the same situation that happened in 1999 when due to the results of the then commission and the research conducted on VMA will not, in practice, be revealed to them, nor has anyone been involved in them afterwards, and especially because the same people or a number of them then participated in the leadership of the state, the same people 25, or more years, participate in the conduct of this country. Today, and I warn you, this is not a topic of any politics, nor of turning the topic from what is happening today, and it is happening that you are slowly leading us step by step towards Kosovo's independence, all these six years, and you who were then ruling when we fought over that Kosovo, today you are ready to sign a legally binding agreement with Kosovo and that our country becomes another Albanian state in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35845	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35846	Mr. Marinkovic, it has been injured in the most cruel way possible by the dignity of the National Assembly. You were obliged to react when MP Alexic spoke from Triestenik, who falsely presents himself here as the promoter of a party that did not go to the elections, whose President Vuk Jeremic was the very one who, while our people were killed under evil NATO bombs, was dragged into a warm apartment in London by his dad. So, he fled Serbia, just like Zoran Djindjic and the entire DS summit then asked for Serbia to be bombed even more to meet all conditions of Western employers, those villains who destroyed Serbia. In order for someone to be qualified, no matter where they come from, this is a fellow Turk, has colleagues who are also from that region of Serbia, that he speaks of anything, why this predecessor is not, must know that there is a certain time distance when something is determined, means that he has basic and elemental qualifications that both General Delic and doctors from different political parties will talk about, and thus does not lie and deceive the citizens of Serbia that a commission has been formed, which is never, because it was then the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia and Mirko Marjanovic and the participants in the SRS government could not possibly form such a commission. So, this previous speaker doesn't know that, you were obliged to warn him about it, because right now it's the first time, however, that could have been done before, but for the first time, to encourage the initiative to form a national commission that unfortunately will determine what the percentage is and how much participation from the NATO crime bombs is in malignancies in Serbia. The data tells, and that's amazing, that's what President Seselj said, that's 2.7 times. If that is not enough for someone, someone who represents in every sense the issuing option for this country to address it in such a way, then you should indeed act, because it is the gravest violation of the Parliament's dignity, a disgrace to every decent citizen of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35847	Thank you for this suggestion. I also try to think that all MPs who participate in the debate and who do not participate in the debate should make sure that at least this topic is part of a proper parliamentary debate, and hopefully the part where we will achieve a minimum consensus. I believe that I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure precisely because there is, every MP has the right to say what he wants, with another appeal to everyone that we really need to discuss this issue correctly, not to bring any policy and aspect of day policy and conflict. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yes, you do. Thank you. The word has Dr Darko Laketić as an authorised promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35848	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, the aim of my initial presentation was to clarify all scientific dilemmas, professional dilemmas, all those moments that were necessary to define in the commission's work. However, what I have heard from the previous speaker really represents both politics and policy-making in such a sensitive and noble idea. Our goal is true and our goal is human health. Our goal is to find out what causes the disease. I think it's immoral to use such a substance for day-to-day political purposes. What I would also like to say, this commission should have really been formed significantly earlier. Why wasn't it formed after 2000? It was a moment when it was very easy to record all those physical characteristics of where the missile fell. At that time, it was time to directly determine the concentration of toxins, the concentration of the cause. How many years has it been now? I'll tell you, then because of the political half-breed of the West, there was no good will. Unfortunately for us, and unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia, to do so then, perhaps the consequences would not be as they are today. I think that should be the conclusion exactly on the fact that the commission formed earlier, could have been anything maybe different, I'm speaking from a scientific point of view. Why? Because it would rise to an adequate and political level, because the simple effects of the analysis of all these noxies are dragging behind them and removing all these toxins from nature. Perhaps also ways of diagnostics and advice and guidance in terms of staying in certain parts of our space would be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35849	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker who was authorized spoke of the guilt of the leadership at the time. He can read my speech from March 23, 1999, freely, there's an Open Parliament, there's a witness here. So everything I had to say back then to the NATO Pact, as well as to our leadership, I said. The wolf descendant Jeremic did not, he kept an oil source. When I talk about leadership, Misko Jeremic, father of Vuk Jeremic, was a senior official and director of the public enterprise. The president of the assembly, his partner, was Dragan Tomic, who even tried to prevent that speech from happening. The wolf Jeremic was hiding in London. He didn't care who bombed himself. Vuk Jeremic was actively building Kosovo's independence after the bombing and abduction of the territory. First, he punished officers when he became adviser to Boris Tadic, the defence minister, actively participated in the retirement of officers who participated in the defence of the country, even thus boasting about the United States, I showed the document. As a physicist, he should have instructed his MP what he had to say, since if he had studied physics, and he didn't know the first Newton law, so he probably doesn't even know this, he should have known how devastating the impoverished uranium is by the population and human health. You need to tell the truth. We're politicians here, Americans act like planet owners, that's true. They're not looking for partners, they're looking for subjects and vases. We didn't fit in. I was softer in 1999. Maybe I was wrong. Maybe I was looking for a way out through a little hole that wasn't even there. I asked us not to go to that war, but maybe the choice wasn't, I certainly can't know. But what I can certainly know is that we did not attack any NATO member, not even the parent state of Kosovo Albanians -- Albania was not a member of the NATO alliance. There was no reason for NATO to bomb. That's what made the defense alliance aggressive. Mr. Lazanski will certainly talk more about it. The NATO alliance was led by the United States. What do you expect from the state that wiped out the Indians, who threw an atomic bomb at the natives, Hiroshima and Nagasaki? There was probably also poored and active uranium. Therefore, we share in a certain way the consequences of the citizens of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the citizens of Japan. In 78 days 420,000 missiles were fired, there were 2,300 flights. I'll try to remember. It seems to me that 16 hospitals were hit by 44 bridges, 500 km of roads were destroyed, 595 km of tracks were shot except for hospitals and schools – 69, kindergartens and kindergartens – 19. So someone on behalf of human rights came to intervene and directly violated human rights immediately, and the consequences of human rights violations are still felt today and certainly Oncology 1, Oncology 2, Oncology 3 and Oncology 4 needs to be well checked, they know it best and can deliver credible data. The Yugoslav peoples should not rejoice because Serbia has been bombed, even those who are always against us, our historical opponents from that stage of brotherhood and unity, I did not believe then either. These animosities to us need to calm down. It's global pollution. The poored uranium doesn't know the limits. In particular, Albanians should not look forward to it. Their territory was the most impoverished of uranium. Two refineries have been hit, I live between those two in the New Carlovites. Between Novi Sad and Panchev, when you hit two refineries, the consequences of human rights are as great as they are. People have the right to clean air, people have the right to clean land, people have the right to clean water. Those who intervene in the name of human rights, the most brutally violated them, and that is where we must be all agreeable. It's not just the impoverished uranium, which was between two and 15 tons, but people say it could have been built 170 atomic bombs, I found that information, someone says ten, twenty, and someone says 170 atomic bombs that were dropped, but I said, in Hiroshima and in Nagasaki. We share the fate of these citizens. I'm not one to take revenge. We must be brave in the future, but also wise. We can never allow more and we must never allow wars to be waged on our territory. We can't attack anyone else, we don't want to, but we shouldn't allow it, we have to be wise not to let war take place on our territory. We with Albanians, who also because of this suffering, must find some solution, sooner or later, I advise as soon as possible – the better. As far as Americans are concerned, I wish the American people the best, I want better leadership, I want America no longer to produce conflicts to better sell war techniques, but to throw itself at the economy, economic activities, and to help the poor, as the richest country, rather than to throw poor uranium at them. Politicians and rich people start wars. In order to be enriched, Western politicians and their portions were sown poored with uranium. There is a peasant saying – what seed you sow, such fruit should be expected. I don't believe bombs are smart. If they're smart, let them throw them on their own, pretty and smart. I don't believe it, unlike some, and here came one of our own and the Americans, I don't believe he's an impoverished uranium vitamin. If it's vitamin, let them throw it on themselves. But no matter what seed you sow, that's the kind of fruit you expect, I don't want Americans to get their hands on poor uranium. That no one should do to them what they did to us, that no one should throw so many bombs and explosives and poor uranium at them, I don't want it to them. I'm a Serb. I'm not an American. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35851	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35852	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, I must declare, with pleasure, that I welcome the formation of this commission and that we will vote in favour of the composition of this commission. Why am I doing this? Well, for the truth. We are obliged to tell the citizens of Serbia the truth about the consequences of NATO aggression. We owe it to their health, due to our healthy environment, and we owe it because we have to make it clear what came after NATO bombing. Someone says it's late. No, it's never too late. It's never too late to find out all the facts, and beyond the facts there must be measures. The mandate of this committee is quite clear. That's what it says in this commission request, and that's why I'm not going to talk about any political aspects at all. This isn't a commission, this isn't a topic where political points should be made. This is a topic that interests the citizens of Serbia and therefore we support this commission. I don't expect the commission to answer all the questions. The commission's task is to determine the facts, to initiate the state to seek solutions to the problems it will face. Why am I stressing this? It is a serious issue, very serious and here to get answers to all the questions should include both the professional and scientific public. We also have scientific institutes and experts on Serbia that can give answers to the questions this commission will come up with in its findings. I also stress this because this is a purely professional and scientific topic. We all experienced it in 1999, and we know its consequences. We all wear them in ourselves, whether it's stress, whether it's some of the consequences that have arisen in the psychological problem, we wear them, but we need to know what this country has to do to overcome it and because of us who are still alive, but also because of future generations, because we have to leave a healthy environment, cleansed of all these negative consequences of NATO bombing. I lived alone in the New Sad, which every other day was bombed, I know what it means to destroy the refinery, I know what it means to destroy bridges, I know what it means to destroy a refinery that's near the Danube where the rendibunaries are, where all the citizens of New Sad are supplied with water. Of course, with happy circumstances in Novi Sad, we have people qualified who knew, on a scientific basis, immediately to give certain measures and protections and later protections. Of course, the consequences always remain. We need to be aware of that, and we need to know that for our future's sake. I stress something else, about this topic I wouldn't go to politicisation, or internal, for internal needs and also for external needs. As you can see, both of them and those who are abroad abuse this topic to tell us something different, something that is really not true. That is why I believe that this commission will initiate scientists, scientific institutes, that the studio will have this studio approach, and with scientific impartiality with statistics that already exist and that will exist long-term solve this problem. This isn't solved in one year, not in 10 years, not in one generation. And here, as a serious state, we have to solve this problem in the long run that was created by NATO bombing. You know, they weren't merciful to us, everything they could do wrong, they did. It is that they were called "Merciful Angels", but they were not merciful. That's what we feel for our skin, and that's why I think we really need to know what we want and where we want. I advocate to take on this question that one serious and thorough answer. Why? Serbia has many open issues. We need to close some questions. That means one question, so that we don't speculate, and that we don't, as we are as a state, or as a people, a little bit prone to make myths so that we don't make a myth in 50 years or 100 years -- here we are, that's why, and that's why. That's why I support this scientific approach and this committee that's going to give answers to these questions that we've been talking about here today. And right at last, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will give its representative, a quality one, to participate in the commission's work, we will support the commission's work and we will vote in favour of its composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35853	Thank you, Professor Mijatovic. Before we move forward, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word of the People's Messenger, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35854	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is an important item of the agenda and I wanted to, that I got a little bit of a word to praise the atmosphere in which this debate is being held, but I didn't get it then. In the meantime, we've shown ourselves, we haven't lasted more than an hour to get a little bit of a slide in that atmosphere we're working in. It is a parliament, it is a political struggle, but I say, I really mean the most honest, without any falsification, that this is one of the topics on which we should not share, and in particular we should not allow this debate to slip into politics. It's very easy, people don't agree, we have different diagnosiss about what happened in the 1990s, what happened in two thousand years, who was responsible for the collapse of the country, how the bombing happened, how the bombing ended, what I'm saying, according to what came after that, and there can be very easy to turn the debate into what the debate on this subject shouldn't look like. All of this, and I have also mentioned that all legitimate issues and those issues that we disagree on can be run in both the public and the parliament. As suggested, I don't have any dilemmas, me and my colleagues from our Parliament club, that's what we announced, and we'll be happy to support the formation of this commission. Of course they're possible dilemmas. Of course it's possible, now ask why now, what's intent, what's motivation? That's always a question to ask, but whatever it is, that's where I agree with some of my opposition colleagues, and on the other hand, it's better than ever. I also agree that it would be even better if it had been formed earlier. When said, then people always think of previous authorities, and this government has been in power for six years, so this ruling majority had times about the same or even more than the previous two-thousands. Either way, I say, I welcome the formation of this commission and we will be happy to participate in its work. I'd just like to ask some questions and colleagues, like someone who explained the initiative here. To a large extent, I agree with his arguments, as well as with what counterpart Zivkovic said in the meantime, which was also constructive. So, to be fair, this time we're usually on this opposition side somewhere and the victims or the target of the attack. This time I admit that my colleague, our colleague, was the first to pull that leg a little bit, but just to tell you, we need to get back, as far as possible, in one dignified, I'm not going to tell the academic but dignified atmosphere we're discussing these things. We are watched, dear colleagues, not by our voters, our sympathisers, fans, etc., as we are often seen by these discussions, by people who are sick, by people who are looking at us, by people who are wondering what it was that hit them, by people who are wondering if there is hope and what are the chances of their healing, or even better, or even more importantly, of their loved ones, who are sick. We should not create an atmosphere where every case, every case of cancer in Serbia, after 2000, is the result of NATO bombing. But I am personally, truly, very convinced, and I hope that I will see and welcome the results of this commission, that this bombing certainly has contributed, which is my impression as an individual, certainly negatively contributed, or increased the rate of disease from the most severe malignancies. That's my impression. I hope he will be, I say, and confirmed, or disproved by competent research at the end of this commission's work. In this regard, I would disagree with my colleague Zoran, but I would agree with the initiative, that by 2020, the deadline is actually a good deadline, and it is not one and a half, but two and a half years at least to be able to count on the result of this commission, that it will be able to be done research, competently, in detail, not o'arms, and just so it is not politicized, which can easily slip. As I said, the theme, the sensitivity of the topic, which affects us all directly or indirectly, is something that reminds us, warns us to stay away from this excessive and excessive politicization. Perhaps it is very good that a certain deadline for the end of this commission's work is actually after the term of office, or the term of office of this House, which means that some other colleagues may, perhaps, end up, may change in some other assembly and composition, will adopt the report of this committee. I think that's good. After all, we have an example from Italy, where three commissions worked 13 years to get to, here's how much convincing and respectable results. So, it doesn't need an o'er, and as far as I understand it, it's scheduled six months to file some preliminary reports, which is public, plus that some sessions will be public, some closed. So, I think this as an explanation seems very much to drink water, seems serious, competent, and I say, anyone can use it now as it suits him, but I think calm souls will support this proposal and I think that its explanation is not just an initiative, but an explanation very good. As far as the deadline goes, there's no doubt about it. As far as the composition is concerned, I would also disagree with my fellow speaker. He says only experts participate, at least that's how I understand it. Of course, there must be experts in the commission's work and in the commission's work. But if we weren't fooling ourselves, this is a political matter. We are a political body, in parliament sitting representatives of Serbian citizens and in this sense it is quite logical to have representatives of parliamentary groups, and, of course, competent people from different areas. Otherwise, the Academy of Science, the Medical School, or I don't know, someone else could form a commission, so nothing. And that's important. They're supposed to be investigating, too. But when parliament forms a body, a commission, it has an extra weight, and therefore it is necessary to balance the presence and political, as I said, of personalities and experts in its composition. I hope so. As far as the composition is concerned, I must agree again with my colleague Zivkovic. It is important to ensure that the commission participates, since as far as I can see, more or less everyone agrees with this, that it should be formed. But it is not bad to ensure, as far as possible, that the Commission is involved in the work of experts who, for example, are present in the public, may not have been so many or at least not heard so much lately, who believe that this fear is too pronounced and that there is no harmful or that there are no excessively harmful consequences of NATO bombing, especially from the impoverished uranium. I'm saying both, and I'm glad to praise it, which is, regardless of the Commission's name, the idea of investigating all the consequences of NATO bombing, and not only the consequences of the bombing of the poor uranium, and I think it's justified, especially for us coming from some northern areas and how we suffered, and those citizens suffered the consequences of the bombing, especially in Panchev, Novi Sad and other cities, although there were no poor uranium, but there were many other harmful ingredients in this bombing and in that, especially when the wounded were the refineries in Panchev and Novi Sad. Either way, I think it is very important to find themselves in the composition of this commission and those such as, say, Mr. Zoran Radovanovic or some other, third, who object find some of the other experts I am holding, from Professor Danica Grujic, Slobodan Šikaric, already mentioned here, Marijana Angelković Lukić and some others. Therefore, both competent institutions and academic institutions and individuals and experts who have worked and already published, dealt with this issue, should take part in the work of this commission. I stress, and institutions delegate their members and prominent individuals who do so professionally. But it cannot amnesty, nor should it amnesty and responsibility for us as MPs and as representatives of citizens to also make a contribution to the commission's work. I have various dilemmas and perhaps doubts, why now and so on, but I won't share them now, I need to give confidence, at least in principle show good will that the work of this committee will be immune to or to the greatest extent possible from this superficial and, I would say, irresponsible politicisations, which we often engage in, given the importance of the topic, and precisely given the sensitivity of the topic, and given the fates of the people and the citizens who are watching us, and who are either sick or have someone who is sick and who thinks that they will be able to do so, finds which we will come to, not only to point out, as far as I'm concerned there's no dilemma about who's responsible for this bombing, but that if the causes are detected, it might help, and that some other colleagues will know better, maybe they can contribute and therapy. So it can also have useful, as I would say, even therapeutic consequences, proper detection. We can't ignore other risk factors, of course, but they certainly didn't throw us at caramels, candy, gum or marbles, so that it doesn't have any adverse consequences. My dilemma is just how bad the consequences are, not whether they exist or not. Thank you. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35855	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35856	Thank you. Today, we are discussing whether a commission should be formed to study the harmful consequences of the use of poored uranium during NATO bombing in 1999 for public health in Serbia. When I think about whether or not we need this commission, right to tell you, can, can this commission, can be discussed. But if we are first concerned about public health and the health of Serbian citizens, before this commission, we need, indeed, many other commissions that have much more impact, some phenomena that have much more impact on the public health of Serbian citizens. We need more than this commission on the impact of the impoverished uranium. We need a commission on the impact of poverty on Serbia's citizens' health. This influence is greater than the impact of the poored uranium. Do you know that at the markets in Belgrade, the sellers of the cherry and strawberry prices stand out by piece? Do you know the impact poverty has on health?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35857	My colleague, I apologize, but really, this is too serious a subject for anyone to discuss selling cherries and strawberries and the market. Please go back to the subject and stick to it strictly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35858	The topic concerns the public health of Serbian citizens. My thesis is that if, firstly, we have the most important, declared concern for Serbia's public health, then there are many other phenomena in this society that have a bad impact on Serbia's public health rather than on the use of poor uranium during the 1999 bombing. If I'm supposed to stay on malignancies, not talk about the impact of stress and poverty, let's talk about impact, for example. a pharmaceutical lobby on the state of our health system and how it affects the public health of Serbian citizens. What happens to someone who has malignancies? Why in Serbia is the mortality of malignancies the highest in Europe? Is it because prevention is not good for us, or is it because we fail to cure people? Of course it's incurable diseases, but if they get caught in the early stages, a good number of these diseases are treatable. Citizens of Serbia who get some malignant disease, believe me, are a little curious whether it is the result of poor uranium, whether it is the result of asbestos that we have everywhere in all buildings, at least in New Belgrade, or because of smoking. They are interested in how to treat themselves, in which they will be able to treat themselves and whether they will be able to treat themselves with dignity or will be conducted as a young journalist from Novi Sad who died after a short and severe illness, whose mother wrote an open letter to the health minister that he very arrogantly responded to, completely rejecting her fundamental remarks, which is that people who are ill with malignant diseases in Serbia do not have decent treatment. If we're talking about the declared public health care of citizens, then we need to talk about the state of the health system that's completely destroyed, then we need to talk about who's responsible for the state of our health system, and not to manipulate the fear of Serbian citizens, not to spin the subject, so that we don't turn our attention to the hunger of their stomachs on a story about poor uranium. As for the composition of the commission itself and the idea of our experts discussing this, you know this is a controversial topic in world terms. There are already studies, Dr. Laketic has stated a lot, there are conclusions that there is a negative impact, there are conclusions that there is no negative impact, world experts cannot agree but we are building a commission. (Goran Pekarski: turn it off.) This isn't a topic. ) This is who in that joke Bata Stojkovic told you in the movie "Let's move on" where you have an American, English and German, and in the end the Serbian turns out to be the smartest. I'd just be begging for the end, seeing as how it's getting a little messy in the O.R., and I'm expecting a reaction to this speech of mine now, so that I don't have any respect for my patriotic feelings in any of the reactions... You don't have patriotic feelings. )......................................................................................................... as was done in the case of some other opposition MPs, such as MP Martinovic tried to do on the Administrative Board a few months ago, when he asked me where I was during the NATO bombing, while his president was in the trenches... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35859	My colleague Stamenkovic, I've been listening to you and we've been listening to you all for five minutes. I'm not sure you even know what we're talking about today? This really doesn't make sense. You can finish, but I'll be very strict, get back on the subject. The theme is neither Martinović nor the Administrative Board, nor Vucic, nor anyone. I can read you the theme of today's session. Here you go. Sign up again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35860	So, 78 days of NATO bombing, I spent on the last floor of a new Belgrade soloist, while they whistled missiles over my head, and the one that ended up at the Chinese embassy, while she whistled, I was convinced she was going right at me. Don't honor me with patriotism, because I've cursed both NATO and Clinton, and Shredder, and Blair these 78 days of bombing, just like all of us for cursing. Now you're cursing your own people. This has nothing to do with today’s theme. What you've put on the agenda today is a cheap attempt to publicize not to talk about real problems, but to distract the public with some high-mental issues that don't solve their existential problems. Where's your soul?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35861	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35862	This discussion is to this extent miserable, miserable, confusing, irresponsible, irresponsible that I really didn't think to answer the word that the lady who spoke earlier didn't mention me. So, I don't know what I told her at that board meeting. If I told her what she said, I don't think I was wrong. In 1999, I supported the government of the Republic of Serbia that defended the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from NATO bombing, and I would do so today. Perhaps the lady who spent the bombing on the last floor of a saltier in New Belgrade was cursing both Blair and Clinton, and Shreder, and I don't know who, but today, in 2018, all of them together are cursing Vukic. You said it wasn't the theme of the Wolf, so it is, for them it's always the theme of the Wolf. Whatever is said in the National Assembly, whatever law and whatever decision comes to the agenda, the subject is Vucic, because these are people who are consumed with an incredible amount of hatred for this man and not only for this man, you see from their discussions, from the discussion of this gentleman from Triestenik who represents Vuk Jeremic, from the discussion by Mrs. New Belgrade to try to impose one thesis that Serbia is actually responsible for NATO bombing. You could hear it from Mr. Alexic's discussion that she was being led, says a different policy would not have happened to NATO bombing. If there's a chance, I'll tell you what it contains. Annex B, which was not accepted by the Serbian delegation in Rambuje, which meant... Radoslav Milojic: Time. )......................................................................................................... And you who throws "time" a little read that Annex B, it'll be smarter for you. So, this Annex B so-called. The Rambuje deal, I apologize for being a little over time, but it is important for the citizens of Serbia, meant NATO to occupy the entire Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and no sovereign state could agree to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35863	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that some, for cheap political points, insult the dignity of the National Assembly and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know, talking about some topics that may be, not perhaps, but certainly important in today's session with this agenda point is simply inappropriate. A sick man may also be able to heal, perhaps tragically end his illness, but the fact of the poored uranium leaves consequences on our offspring, on our children, on our future. And it's a shame to stand up to daily events like this. Whoever did this should be ashamed of him. A crime took place in 1999 towards one country and all its citizens. Those who are criminals are looking to justify their crime, and the trials in The Hague, and the arrest of our political leadership and military officers who defended the country, are trying to defend and justify their crime. And our scum here, ours, who seems to be pouring dollars out of his pocket, is working with them to give Serbian people, citizens of Serbia a sense of collective guilt because they bombed us for 78 days. Well, they should be ashamed. One more thing and I'm done. To each one of us, we may be disrupting something from our home education so that we may rebel somewhere, but the children of all of us will one day read what we were doing here in this congregation. Don't, fellow MPs, let our own children be ashamed of us for what we have done and spoken here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35865	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. One thing you're right about. This is definitely a thing, first political culture, but also home education. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the Verse of Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35866	In view of this subject, different opinions could be expected to be heard in the National Assembly, and some of them knew how some MPs would react. But to show this kind of hatred for your own people and to your own Serbia is something that really exceeds all limits of normal behavior, and of course common sense and, I would say, courage. You know, the fact that Jelena Milic comes out and talks on some televisions, she's a NATO lobbyist, she doesn't hide it, she says she gets money for it and it's on her honor. But being a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and sharing in this regard the fact that Jelena Milic is absolutely unacceptable. It can't be said that you, the chairman, have broken the Rules of Procedure. I'm speaking to you on the basis of article 32 as a fellow vice president, but, even if it seems to me, you've even warned an MP, I don't even think that's what it's supposed to be doing. Let the citizens of Serbia hear who they voted for, because there is no one who went to the elections and who did not go to the elections, there is, unfortunately, no family in Serbia who did not have a member of the rope or a wider family suffering from cancer. Unfortunately, many have died. It's never happened for anyone to find out about this disease without him and family members saying -- damn NATO criminals, this is about NATO bombs and poor uranium. Then here we hear something completely different. I only end with a reminder of what happened today during NATO bombings - a fuel storage facility was bombed in Bogatovac, civil goals at Sjenica and the surrounding Užica, the factory "Cer" near Čačka, the railway line, the Technical Remont Institute. Dear colleagues, every day for 78 days we could mark as the day of sad reminders of the tragedy that has been happening to us under NATO bombs and that continue because of the poored uranium and because we are increasingly sick, precisely because of this criminal bombing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35867	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Yes, you're right, and you suggested here while I chaired. I just didn't want to let it happen, because I think it would be the humiliation of the National Assembly and the flowers of us here, to talk, as I said, about cherry and strawberries. It was my intention, and we have a very important topic that we are discussing very seriously, that is, most of the MPs who have debated so far. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you again for your suggestion and goodwill. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35868	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I personally find the subject extremely sensitive, personally I think it is vital national interest and therefore pay attention to the discussion of the subject first and foremost. It doesn't matter, really Parliamentism allows everything, there are different opinions, but about this topic of cherry and strawberries, it's really embarrassing. First, because we're also seen by people who are directly damaged, who are ill. We're being watched by people who expect both this commission and our joint work results. Don't let this parliament be defiled, Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, I'll remind you of what's been done in the healthcare system. I will remind you that the clinical centres were to be completed in 2009, all of them, and that they only gradually end now. I'll remind you that patients, oncology patients in Vojvodina, were dying because they couldn't get in line for radiation. Now, that's no shame and shame, that's a sin. We've come to the point of gradually solving all these burning health problems. We've come to a situation where a sufficient number of linear accelerators have been purchased that most of the waiting lists have practically been shut down. We're in a situation where they bought ambulances. You remember when neither vehicles had health homes nor fuel to transfer patients to higher-ranking facilities. That's what we need to talk about when the Health Protection Act comes in, not when the construction laws are talking about free textbooks, when this vital law, that is, this vital question, is about cherry and cherry. All together I call you, first of all, to responsibility, as the commission will have its own responsibility, so have you individually. I speak to every MP of the people and behave accordingly. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35869	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35870	Thank you. I will try to earn your attention in the time of the authorized DS representative, with one contribution to the debate where I will discuss the poored uranium and the consequences that the poor uranium projected, speak through the prism of propaganda and facts. She is fully aware that the facts have absolutely no chance of propaganda and even more aware that, if she gives us up a little of the facts, then the damage to the propaganda of missiles with poor uranium will be even greater than it is now, here or anywhere in the world. What's propaganda, what are the facts, when they're projected with impoverished uranium? First of all, let me stress that we are having a debate here on the establishment of a commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing, or poor uranium and all other consequences of life, human health and the environment. It is good to remember that this debate proves the scientific truth, which says that states lose and win wars, and societies are always at a loss, whether the state wins or loses the war. It's not social science, but our discussion will be a part of proving that fact. In the exchange of questions and answers between National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, on her question - will we support the commission, I said - of course, and I have proposed myself as chairman of the commission and I believe that you are deeply mistaken for conjecturing the commission with the president of the government. It's propaganda. Well, she's legal. I don't consider any propaganda legitimate, but it's legal. How did the propaganda start with the poor uranium in America, that someone here didn't think we invented propaganda or that the Germans invented propaganda or that the Americans invented propaganda? Propaganda is part of the human society of all forever. So, in the 1970s, it lasted on television and on the media in America, one story of the Soviet Union making armored weapons of various types of vehicles completely impenetrable. It is a convenient circumstance that since the 40s since the industrial use of nuclear material exists, there has been a storage of poor uranium and hence a campaign to use a missile with impoverished uranium. Several countries have accepted it, lists can be found in literature. Some countries don't use poor uranium. What else was propaganda when the poor uranium was? The UN report, which has produced consequences in The Hague court among former prosecutors Carla Del Ponte in Louise Arbur, who asked to qualify it as war crimes and left us insufficient facts. What else was propaganda in conflict with facts? A report with us is part of the report, which was shared with us by the proposed president of the commission, about what was going on in the Italian Senate. The survey committee was formed in the Italian Senate due to propaganda that all other soldiers, members of all other forces who came to Kosovo were notified of everything only Italian soldiers were not. That's how it started. The fact is, no one was informed. I listened very carefully. I didn't break up with anyone once. So I'd be grateful to hear from you that way, and it might be different if you choose. What is propaganda, and what are the facts about the results of the periodic report that the Italian parliament of the Senate and the lower home had? To interpret the facts that have been given in the way that it suits someone, well, it's either interpreted that there's no influence at all, that's the famous line that nobody's guilty of being killed by Italian soldiers, or it's interpreted as hiding the intentional truth. Whenever you have a conflict of propaganda and facts, the facts are at a loss. Here in this debate there is one fact that no one mentions, which I am very proud of. So, if and when this commission is proposed, drawn up, if the president proposes it in a name debate and we all accept, which we are in it, that commission will show very clearly one thing that Serbia has not otherwise shown for decades, which is concern about the health of the Albanian population in Kosovo, because 81 places with poor uranium missiles are located on Kosovo territory, nine in Serbia. I didn't interrupt either, so if someone doesn't think it's true, then give me the other information. The data available is 81st on Kosovo territory, nine on the territory of other parts of Serbia and one in Montenegro. Where those locations live, Albanians. I am particularly pleased with the fact that the work of this commission will also take care of the health of members of the military and police who were in Kosovo during the bombing, not unfortunately to those who died, according to me available data, 1,031. Unfortunately, no data are available on the number of civilian bombing victims. I find this an incredible lack of self-respect for this society that is at stake, as well as for Albanian society, by a war that interprets who lost it who won it. So, if this commission succeeds, it will take less care of the health of Albanians in Kosovo and will take less care of their family and relatives' health and members of the military and police service that were directly near 81 locations that were targeted by missiles with poor uranium. That's good news. It is one of the few things Serbia does and shows that it cares about Albanian citizens although it does not have real full jurisdiction in Kosovo's territory. These people who live there will benefit most from research if we successfully end it. That's good news when it's facts. What any of those facts will do as propaganda, I can't tell you how much I don't care. For our work, the committee that will be formed, hopefully after the proposal that the president of the commission will make, it will remain unclear what the commission is dealing with. To all of us who do not know anything, and there is a lot of us in this room, about scientific methodology, about the research goals and about the possibility of checking scientific hypotheses, is missing how this commission is going to work. What are we trying to prove? It's not possible that we want to prove that the poor uranium is harmful, it's a waste of money and time and quite a shame if we want anyone, by any means of science, to prove that the poor uranium is harmful. One isotopic, and the isotopic is because it is located in the same place in the periodic system of elements with other uraniums is classified as harmful because it has a breakdown that causes electromagnetic radiation, alpha, beta and gamma air, which have different effects depending on the environment in which it is spread. That doesn't have to prove it. Uranium is harmful. So I'm asking you to define the commission's task. What do we want to prove? We want research done, organised by the MPs, by someone expert, that will link the number, type and frequency of some types of disease from the distance from the location, quantity and type of use of the missile to the impoverished uranium. That's what we want to prove. Until it's proven, we'll always have a choice to choose between propaganda and the facts at will and always to know that victory will be on the side of propaganda. No one likes facts. The facts are persistent, easily verifiable, stubborn. Propaganda is sweet, beautiful, seductive, interpretative and willful to everyone. How are we gonna prove that? How are we going to prove the connection between what happened on a certain day, at one of the 81 locations in Kosovo, nine locations in other parts of Serbia and one location in Montenegro, with the direct consequences of those who live there, because they are the first topic of research? You're going to need some kind of co-operation over a territory where we don't have any real and full jurisdiction, if we're going to do some serious research. You want another piece of information, someone poured a ton of chlorine into Sava automatically. I just don't know who's gonna benefit from it. If you want another study of the tones of the living that were thrown into the Danube automatically. Who's going to benefit from that? If we really want to prove and oppose the decisions of the Greater In The Hague, which refused to declare the bombing of the poor uranium war crimes, if you really want to oppose those who do not want to classify the poored uranium in the Convention of Resolution that would be banned, then you need very serious research, a very clear scientific methodology. Not that I don't mind having the Assembly organise it, fund it, do whatever needs to be done for any scientific house here or anywhere, but rather, I will be very happy to support the participation of people who know how to come and prove to the scientific methods if you have so many and so many missiles with poor uranium at 81 locations in Kosovo, as well as why the military and the police suffer and why and why and how long the population will suffer at direct sites, as well as why the population will suffer away from direct localities, how far away, why exactly so. These are things that are done as scientific research. The poored uranium has much less commonly defined radiological facts, it has chemical facts, much more than the classic sources of nuclear radiation, such as uranium 238, or like the explosions of atomic bombs after hydrogen, as a lighter, or, again, I'm going to give you an example between propaganda and facts, such as man's mistake caused by a tragedy in Chernobyl on 26 April 1986. Propaganda was that the Soviet government asked to remain silent, unfortunately, and our government asked to remain silent. In the days right after Chernobyl, when it makes a lot of sense to talk about radioactive clouds, which makes no sense to talk about in poor uranium, we have to prove that I belong to a school that feels it makes no sense to talk about radioactive clouds, but about radioactive clouds when Chernobyl was involved and how it made sense to talk. So the propaganda decided not to inform the public – both Belarusian and Soviet and Hungarian and Romanian and ours. I can tell you about this in detail, if we really agree on the true composition of the commission. Ingestion doses, Ambassador Laketić mentioned. I had the pleasure of being an associate of Dr. LJiljani Conkic, who was one of the first to introduce ingestion doses, despite the opposition of the classic school of nuclear physicists and the measurement of radons, as natural radioactive air in the ground, measuring worked so as not to build schools, houses and other places where it is, but to build garages, places that people don't use, fought facts and had difficulty going against the propaganda school that it was unnecessary. The second ingestion dose was initiated because when you radiate small intensity, it's harmless, you can shower the alpha rays, and someone here talked about cosmic rays as alpha radiation. We'd better all read something before we ask. So, two protons, two neutrons, heavy particles, and in a radioactive mission, the alpha rays are eliminated quickly and you don't count them in danger of human health, but if you take a breath, then the little distance that an alpha particle can pass ends up in your cells. Every story about someone breathing in dust, air with poor uranium produces my question – where did he do it and how much did he receive? If you want to take us seriously, then we need to find a way to have a verifiable methodology that, first of all, in front of us, in front of the Albanian population in Kosovo, in front of our soldiers and police officers, in front of those for whom we will have a strategy, to come out and say – the ingestion doses were such that they produced malignancies. Why do I insist on discussing the difference between propaganda and facts, not slowing down any choice, and taking my choice that, as in each other, I am only talking about facts? Because it's the easiest thing for the overall state of our life as a society, afraid that we'll get sick of everything and everything, afraid that we won't have the money to heal, afraid that someone of ours will be sick, and we don't have the money to treat it, so carefully use propaganda, very carefully, and even more carefully we need to use the facts. It will be my contribution to this commission and every kind of debate, when it comes to missiles with poor uranium, about the place where most of these missiles have been fired, 81 places in Kosovo, with repeated remarks that everything that is needed of these research, in advance, I am telling you that, by its goodwill, a country that can understand the tragedy of the societies that have lost or won wars, we offer to the Albanian population, because it primarily refers to them. It is our duty to make sure that once proven everything that is due to participation in combating Serbia's military and police, we present to them either with a proposal for compensation or with a proposal for legislative action in the UN or in the EU to ban the use of weapons with impoverished uranium. We have one chance to prove that we're serious. We've been standing before us the Convention on the Ban of Cartridge Bombs for so long, but we don't approach it. There are all sorts of reasons and sources that tell us why we won't join the ban on the use of cluster fights. If the result of this commission's work is unequivocal and clear, scientifically subdued, verifiable evidence of a link between the chemical fact of the impoverished uranium and the frequency of numbers and people's health especially on the kidneys and spleens and if the Assembly is able to demand a ban and weapons with impoverished uranium and a signature on the ratification of the ban on cluster bombs, we will indeed do one serious job and that will be a fact, there will be no propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35871	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Lazanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35872	Ladies and gentlemen, since this was about propaganda and facts, I would use these two minutes to just read some facts from some material. Article 107, since this mixing of propaganda and the fact is a threat to the dignity of the Assembly. Otherwise, the material is from the Pentagon, you can see. So this isn't propaganda, it's fact. When we talk about whether Carla del Ponte refused to be tried for the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium, it should be returned to the fact that the World Health Organization, according to British physicist Kit Baverstok, has ruled out from a UN report that the weapons of poor uranium used in former Serbia's premises in 1999 are dangerous to health and carcinogenic. In 2001, she published a falsified report in which she concluded that weapons with poor uranium were not used in areas where the population was subjected to tests and experimental control of the possible consequences of its health. The British physicist argues that his views and findings have been removed from the report that confirm that the weapons with the impoverished uranium are carcinogenic and genotoxic, i.e. that it damages genetic material, leading to the malformation of newborn children. He claims, the same British scientist, that he had insight into the results of Dr. Alexander Miller's research from the U.S. Department of Defence radiology that unequivocally demonstrated the genotoxicity of the poored uranium, and not only could he not bring his results into the monograph of the impoverished uranium, but this World Health Organization, as its member, prohibited him from publishing them anywhere. He was not even invited to a World Health Organization delegation that visited the SR Yugoslavia in 2001, although he was then head of the radiological protection department.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35873	Chairman: Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35874	Let me finish. What is very important is that the delegation that was then in 2001 did not take the authorities to a site where uranium was poored. So you consciously ignored the presence of that delegation and didn't take them to those sites. Is that propaganda or are those facts? I've still got a lot of data that I won't be able to tell because of the time limit. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35875	Thank you, Comrade Lazanski. Take it easy, Mr. Milickey, on what grounds? (Radoslav Milojic: Turn me on, so I'll tell you. Well, according to the Rules of Procedure, I said. According to the Rules of Procedure? We don't want to bargain, or say it, and if you want the right to a replica, say I know in what order to assign a word to the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35876	I'm advertising Article 108. - Okay, at the session, she's taking care of the chair, in this case you. You're just before, i.e. Your predecessor, Martinovic, gave him a minute longer than he was allowed by the Rules of Procedure, which is two minutes, he spoke for three minutes, and Mr Lazanski spoke 40 seconds longer and you let him read what he had. Is that how we can take now and by hurting the Rules of Procedure to read what we have? Come on, respect this Rules of Procedure for not respecting the Constitution or the laws of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35877	My dear friend, have you mentioned your parents to anyone? (Radoslav Milojičić: Your betrayer, your father.) You mentioned your parents to someone. (Radoslav Milojic: Did you hear that they said I was a traitor? You didn't hear that? Mr. Milojich, please... (Radoslav Milojic: Who is the traitor here? What does this look like? Shame on you, you'll call someone a traitor. You want to let me finish? Fellow MPs, please. I've never measured anyone, any MPs when they were advertised by the Rules of Procedure or by the right to replication in a very second, not even you. And I've been warning you two minutes 15, two minutes 20, two minutes 25, and they're all fellow deputies here. The only time I'd interrupt an MP was when he wanted to insult someone in his final presentation. That's when I turned off the microphone. So I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure this time either. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? All right. Comrade Laketić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35878	First of all, in light of this discussion of propaganda and facts, I am obliged to, first of all, one information that is referred to as propaganda, practically, deny and prove that it is a fact. In the course of various testimony from the commission, therefore, led by Mr. Skana, the Italian Parliament, Mr. Carmelo Kovato, among other things, testified. Carmelo Kovato, a general who literally said in his testimony that in a mission in the Balkans, Italian soldiers were informed of health risks due to the use of poor uranium. He has received criminal charges before the Roman prosecutor's office for the statement he made before the commission and the process is under way. It has been proven false, it has been proven that Italian soldiers entered their sector without any protective equipment. So it's not propaganda, it's a fact. Also, the Commission itself, which is formed, one of the motives of forming a commission, is just to separate propaganda from facts. From my colleagues, I've heard a lot of things, which will really be useful in the commission's work. Isn't propaganda something we heard in an earlier period a week ago, where senior officials from foreign countries say - the high frequency of malignant diseases in Serbs is because they are poor genetics or because they are a very old, old population? Isn't that propaganda? Let's form this committee and take this necessary step to get to the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35879	Thank you. Col. Comić, whose exposure? (Gordana Comić: At the presentation of Darko Laketić, as authorised. ) You couldn't have, because you asked for a word before Mr. Laketić started to discuss it. (Gordana Comic: Yes, but I knew in advance what he was going to say. And you knew in advance? Next time. The mandated representative of the SPS promoter, Mr. Djordje Milicevic You don't have a colleague, you don't. [[Gordana Komic: I have no right to replica?]] Here you go, colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we agree with the finding of the chairman who led the session right before you that it is important that we have a correct parliamentary debate, because the topic is of paramount importance and paramount importance. I must fully admit that through the opening presentation of the first of the speakers coming from the opposition parliamentary group, Professor Vojislav Seselj, we have recognised the willingness and determination to contribute to the quality debate and contribution to the work of the commission that will be formed, but after that, Mr Arsic, one, as the chairman, before you, has said, politicization, so the attempt to politicise, has been translated into the field of politics, the opening of certain political topics. Well, you'll allow me, in these 20 minutes, to belong to me as the president of the parliamentary group, to give certain views and MPs' clubs, when it comes to issues that are open during today's debate, because that is, I repeat, the legitimate right of every Parliament club. First of all, when it comes to the parliamentary group of the SPS, of course, we will support the proposal for a decision to form a commission to determine the consequences of NATO bombing from 1999, because first of all we believe that the truth is the interest of all of us, whatever the truth is. We owe this truth primarily to the citizens of Serbia and in this way we show and confirm the responsible and serious attitude towards the citizens when it comes to this subject and when it comes to this issue. Someone said for a minute, we need to talk about facts. Yes, I need to talk about facts and be clear and clear, bombing is a crime that has been committed to our people. This should be spoken openly, clearly and publicly, as it is a must for all of us to protect Serbia's interests. Bombing is a consequence, it is our legitimate right to say, false charges of genocide and ethnic cleansing, but we also believe that this is actually the peak of one pressure that has been continuing on Serbia since the early 1990s. In Croatia, for example, about 380 thousand Serbs lived before 1990, there is Mr. Linta to correct me if I'm wrong. Today, there are about 160,000, while more than 150,000 lived in Sarajevo, today less than ten thousand. In Pristina, the 40,000 that once lived there, today only a few hundred. The question arises, where did Serbia perform ethnic cleansing and genocide? There has been ethnic cleansing on Serbs, and that is something we must talk about and we should talk about spreading the truth about our people. Serbia has never, looking back at all the wars, counted its victims, here's one to confirm Mr. Atlagic, he knows historical data quite well, let him correct me if I'm wrong, but Serbia has never counted its victims, beginning with the Balkan War, and then World War I, and then World War II and the last civil war in the Balkans. Somehow, we always made sure that we didn't hurt the national feelings and the national emotions of others. And have others treated Serbia in such a responsible and serious way? Unfortunately, they didn't. They've always talked about certain numbers, certain numbers, and often these numbers and digits are manipulated. That's why I think it's very important that we remember the victims today, especially today when, through the violation of the international legal order, it is supported to make one quasi state on the blood of some others. When it comes to today's topic and when we talk about this subject and this issue, he felt that several key messages were to be announced today. One, I already said. The truth is the interest of all of us. We owe this truth to the citizens, and this is how I today show a responsible and serious attitude towards the citizens of Serbia. The second key message is, don't forget. For a people who forget their sacrifices, a people who forget their history, are doomed to survive it again. The third key message is not to repeat it. And perhaps the most important message for all of us, something that is our responsibility and obligation, our task is our future, because the past today and that we wish we could not correct. But the past cannot be our only present and future. I think we need to learn from the past and the past, to affirm what was good, but to continue to give answers to the key issues that plague Serbia today, and to build together the foundations of a new future. NATO bombing was, of course, spoken of by a colleague for a moment, in fact mentioned, I'm sorry he wasn't in the O.R. NATO bombing is often justly so-called. the dictatorship of the people who were at the time leading Serbia and were in power. But what happened after 2000? Why was Serbia punished then? Then why continue pressure on Serbia? Well, did the Serb persecution from Kim's space continue? Is Montenegro separate? Is Kosovo's independence unilaterally recognised? NATO bombing was in 1999, so 19 years ago. Slobodan Milosevic has not been on the political scene of Serbia for more than 18 years, so why is more than 80% of Serbian citizens today against Serbia's NATO entry? Well, why is pressure on Serbia and Kosovo now 18 years later, but also because of Republika Srpska? There is no Slobodan Milosevic. So, unilateral recognition of KIM's independence is for us to continue the bombing, continue the pressure and continue the aggression launched by NATO bombing in 1999. And it's hard to defend Serbia today. But Serbia today, I can safely say, is a factor of stability in the Western Balkans territory. Serbia is recognised today as a reliable, safe and stable partner, all those who want to have a partnership with Serbia. And that is Serbia's principled commitment. We'd like others in the environment to respect that principled commitment. Serbia is today a symbol of new values in the region, and Serbia is today the hub of regional co-operation. Serbia wants to keep old friendships, wants to build new friendships, strengthen relations between the nations. Serbia wants to preserve peace and stability in the region, because we know how difficult it is to stabilise the region, how difficult it is to preserve peace and stability in the region, and how easy it is to destabilise the region. It's easy to fight people. It's hard to reconcile them. Hate doesn't contribute, hate doesn't build, hate doesn't contribute to the process of stabilisation, it contributes to the process of destabilisation. And that's why dialogue has no alternative. And that's a clear view of Serbia. The question of Kosovo and Metohija is mentioned here. Serbia has entered the Brussels process, started a debrisl process to resolve some key issues. You know, as long as you sit at a table where you talk about Serbia, you can influence decision-making. When you're not at that table, and decisions are made regarding Serbia, you can't influence that. So Serbia has started a process of deforestation to resolve some key issues, such as the Serb municipalities' community, but not to be underestimated and humiliated. Serbia will certainly know how to maintain its dignity, its integrity and its international reputation. Serbia has launched an internal dialogue. Serbia's president has launched an internal dialogue, and it is a courageous and decisive step for us to contribute to a sustainable and sustainable solution on the subject of KIM. And it certainly is an opportunity for all of us to see together once again whether we can realistically look at the situation of KIM, not keep our heads in the sand, because if we keep our heads in the sand, the time will pass, that question will become more difficult, and at some point we won't have anything to talk about. We have no responsibility to pass this question on to generations who will come after us. And this is not for us a daily topic, but a question concerning Serbia's future. In this way, Serbia shows its readiness to talk, so we do not conflict. We're talking about having a future. It shows readiness to answer some key and difficult questions, to best protect national and state interests, and what is fundamentally important Serbia wants to win in peace. There is little mention of EU membership. Yes, one of Serbia's key foreign policy goals is full membership in the EU. But Serbia doesn't hide it either, it speaks openly. He wants to strengthen traditional friendly relations with both Serbia and China and the United States, and this is not contrary to the European path of Serbia. What I want to say openly, there are no privileges and tempting tickets for whose account anyone is willing to accept Kosovo's unilateral act. There were few words about Serbia's NATO membership as well. Serbia has not taken a step that shows it wants to become a NATO member, but Serbia wants co-operation and partnership with all. Serbia with NATO has a common denominator, which is co-operation with a view to regional stability and peace. Serbia also wants to co-operate with the ODKB, but Serbia will selfishly safeguard its military neutrality as an independent state to lead an independent foreign policy, which will be in the best interest of our citizens, and Serbia will know best how to protect its national and state interests. When it comes to the commission we're going to form, I want to say a few more sentences. It is good that the Commission will base its work on scientific facts and relevant research already carried out. It is important that the public, it is important that experts, people's representatives, state authorities have an almost undivided view on this, and that is the right to the truth. Just a few more data. I think I have plenty of time. Of course, that's what the commission's gonna do. But what I'm saying is that during the bombing, 2,300 air strikes were carried out on 995 objects across the country, and 1,150 fighter planes launched nearly 420,000 missiles of a total mass of 22,000 tonnes. According to the NATO report, 35,000 uranium-enriched missiles have been extradited. According to the Yugoslav Army, there were 50,000, and according to some Russian sources, as many as 90,000. The damage estimates of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ranged from 30 billion to 100 billion US dollars. The final number of victims has not been officially reported, and our estimates range between 1,200-2,500 dead and about 6,000 wounded of which are close to 3,000 children. About 15 tonnes of impoverished uranium was dropped on Serbia during NATO bombing. For comparison, Mr. Laketic certainly knows, for comparisons, that before the 1999 bombing in Serbia, between 15 and 20,000 new cancer cases were registered, so that the number would increase to as many as 40,000 new patients. In 2015, it was announced that Serbia is the first country in Europe to die from malignant tumours. True, the problem of the inexplicable consequences of NATO bombing opened by the Italian parliament, as Italian KFOR soldiers were suffering from cancer, over 500 Italian soldiers have been ill and 45 have passed away so far. Many Italian soldiers who have been ill have sued for damages to the Italian state and all 19 NATO members, and there have been strong convictions. Because of these inconceivable and unpredictable consequences of our people's health and the environment, in which future generations will live, the state must be responsible for accessing all the consequences of NATO bombing. That is why the formation of this commission, I repeat, will have the support of the parliamentary SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35881	Thanks, buddy. There's only ten minutes left until the regular break. Since authorised representatives of political parties, or parliamentary groups, are entitled to 20 minutes, should we continue now or after the break to call the next one? After the break. All right. I'm now setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We're continuing today's work. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35883	Thank you. The decision on the education of this commission is, in principle, a parliamentary group of Free Members who want to support it. However, we need some clarifications regarding the formation of the commission itself. I hope that colleague Laketić will give them to us today or in some days to come. First of all, I am interested in the criteria in which the commission will be formed, i.e. how her composition will be proposed. It should be drawn up, as I understand it, from the ranks of MPs, by being from all MPs, if I understand it well, because it only says in the reasoning of the decision. There's nowhere in the text of the decision that it's indicated. So, the way they're going to be educated from the ranks of MPs, and also by which criteria someone else is going to be involved in the work of this committee. If I understood correctly, there should be members, now I'm going to see like this, which would be experts, if I understand correctly. I am now interested in, in addition to these criteria, it is nowhere to indicate when the commission is to start working and whether it will be like any law to be passed – eight days after the publication in the "Official Messenger" or if there is some deadline that should be defined by this decision. As for the very subject we are dealing with, it is certainly okay to take care of how certain events that occurred in the past affect the health of the Serbian population. What is particularly interesting here, I see, is that it puts a special focus on the consequences left by the use of a projectile with poor uranium, which, on the one hand, is strange to us, given that this has been done so far, the previous speakers have been saying, that the use of poored uranium in missiles that are used for neutralising, above all, armored vehicles or some forts used mainly in the area of KIM is, in fact, the most in Kosovo, the border part of Kosovo. As a colleague explained in the light of this decision, this ammunition is used on A10, which is otherwise a Navy aircraft, a bomber hunter, who is otherwise slow and because he wears armor to withstand, possibly, some random fire that would be directed against him, therefore, because he is not fast, there is no big autonomy. That's why these planes couldn't get deeper into the territory because of the dangers they could be exposed to. They mainly worked in the Kosovo area. As far as I have some data here, I have heard from previous speakers, it is at 381 locations in the KIM area and only nine in the Serbia area, which are otherwise locations near Kosovo. As I was normally serving military time on that ground, in the 549 motorized brigade and where the commander of that unit was a respected colleague of ours Bozidar Delic, he can also confirm it, I had the chance to watch what the shooting from those 30-millimeter cannons from A10. They mainly asked to find some armored vehicles because they had some goals they had received from before in some observations that of course worked satellites, drones, etc. But our army mostly hid well from all that, since we didn't have the upper hand in the air, and the only chance to fight them was to hide, to move away, to move at night, at dusk or early in the morning. These shootings were mainly carried out randomly and were not essentially targeted by real goals. They probably used to, when they thought something was moving, thinking that maybe some armored vehicles were shooting. I've had a chance to see it in a lot of places. It mostly ended up in some, literally, fields, in some neutral space, so it certainly couldn't have had any explosions of that kind, as it was already stated in the reasoning of this decision, that even whole clouds could have flown south, I don't know, into Southeast Europe. Since these are small missiles, there are no explosions of that kind, where there's a large amount of dust rising, gas in the air, and then it's blown up by the wind. I don't think that's possible, but never mind, let this expert commission determine the same. What's particularly interesting is that it only came to this because this initiative that was in the Italian Parliament is listed here, based on data on the disease of Italian soldiers who were in the area of KIM and who it is obvious that this endangerment of health happened by not even knowing where to move and where they should not move and that it probably came from this ignorance. Also, all other contaminants that normally occurred in Serbia, and this primarily happened by destroying these petrochemical complexes, thermo-energy complexes and even some industrial complexes. There are so many significant emissions into the atmosphere, spills, so probably, according to me, the data I have goes far beyond what could have threatened us with poor uranium. What's particularly interesting here, I don't know how this commission is going to treat these diseases in the future, since, for example, I come from Kragujevac, and there was a case of a bombed flag, and some other parts of the city of these industrial plants, and then people worked in some clearing and someone determined by some analysis of the number of patients, that in groups of people working on these jobs there was a significant increase in the number of malignancies, including deaths. What does that tell me? Certainly, the responsibility for the bombing is borne by the one who bombed us. In my view, too, one is irresponsible in how it was handled in cases of clearing up that terrain or possibly decontamination. Obviously, that's not what it meant. Unfortunately, with inadequate management of this process of cleansing and decontamination, people, in fact, did not do it, threatened health, some became ill, some died. So it seems to me, the same case is with the soldiers. What is particularly important, in my view, given that we already want to put this accent on the impact of the poored uranium, and given that, above all, KIM has been compromised, I am now interested in explaining to us whether this means that we will include perhaps co-operation and representatives of the self-called Republic of Kosovo, given that the population left to live there is probably in some way threatened? What is particularly important to me, to what would I add special importance, is this commission going to be dealing with soldiers and police and all military forces that were in Kosovo at that time until its withdrawal in June 1999, and will it deal with the health of these people? Will there be any research done on those people who were there? Somehow, it seems very meaningful to me, if we want to prove an impact on people's health, because these people have been exposed, this could confirm these indications that are listed here. In addition, what is very important to me, if we have already started with this practice commission, it would be good to maybe start some other commissions, once we've started like this. For example, some commission that might determine what it is, for example. The cause of the large number of evictions of people from Serbia? For example, what is the impact of poverty in Serbia on human health? It could also be interesting to me, so it might be interesting the same, which is the impact of the Serbian government's policy on the health system, so how this health system affects people's health. I think it's kind of comprehensive, so I would suggest, if the majority of the congregation wanted to educate some other commission of that kind, so that we treat it all together, when it comes to health, given that this isolated thing is only about the bombing, in my opinion, is not possible, especially since it's been 19 years since that event and let's say that, when I was preparing for this, seeing at the Institute of Health "Batut" that they don't have any information about the patients before 1999. So I don't know how we're going to know what the starting point is, how do we determine these methodologies? I wonder which one, in particular, is going to tell us, which institutions, experts, would be involved in the work of perhaps this commission and thus contribute to finding out the real truth, if, in my opinion at all, it is possible to separate the disease of people who have been exclusively ill on the basis of what was bombing and to separate from the pollution that we normally have in cities? Remember that our thermal power plants and heat plants are very old, especially in the winter months in large cities and in all cities where there are heats that are mostly coal or lubricating, that there is great pollution and that this is still present today. It affects people's health today, and it's going to affect them as long as we don't change something about it. It would also be good to determine, for example, how many people in Serbia drink water whose quality is controlled? That's the same interesting question, because through that water can also come these substances that ended up in the country and in the water streams during the bombing, across the water they can reach people. I think it takes a lot to expand the field of action, we can't just focus on what's written in this proposal for a decision to form a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35884	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35885	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens, helps all. I really want to express one thing, to say the satisfaction, although that is not the appropriate word, which has finally found this big and tragic topic at the People's Assembly of Serbia at last, because the consequences of Serbia's bombing by the NATO Pact are so huge that no commission that we can form will ever be able to embrace it and study it until the end. Because the consequences of NATO's bombing and economic economy are economical in destroying our economy and destroying our road and every other infrastructure in the destruction, as we see the health of our population and the complete environmental situation in the state of Serbia. So, it is important, it is very important and good that we have finally launched this topic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and as you have seen, the Devere parliamentary group voted in favour of this point being on the agenda and the MP group of the Serbian Movement Dvora will vote for the formation of this committee to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing and, of course, if it is offered, to give its member to that commission. What's the problem, and what needs to be put in place, how did we get into a situation that only after 19 years of NATO bombing, we're even starting to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing? How did we come to the situation that six years after the SNS came to power, only the first time this topic came to the agenda of the assembly session? And how did we get into a situation that only after four years as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed by this commission, Maja Gojkovic remembers that this should finally come to the agenda? So, realistically, why is it now such an emergency procedure, and it hasn't been the previous 19, six or four years? So, there was a delay, someone was afraid of opening this topic, someone had some obligation to someone to close this topic in Serbia in some way and they don't know. What I think is a very important question, and in some way our obligation, as a generation that belonged to young people who were in their time against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, and I really belong to that generation, we felt that it was a bad regime that brought our country into economic and social disaster, that it was one regime that pushed the true values into another plan, and that it was one regime in which it was meant to protect Serbian, national and state interests, betrayed them. That's why we were fighters against that regime. However, when we saw what came after the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, on October 5th 2000, many of us changed their opinion of Slobodan Milosevic, especially after his stance in The Hague tribunal, where he was indeed eventually killed for defending the interests of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. I think the time has come to establish a balanced relationship with the now already historical figure Slobodan Milosevic, who is not only positive, nor only negative, but to see what was good and what was bad, and what was certainly good is that at that time took much more care of the state than was taken care of after 5 October 2000. One very important thing – it has nothing to do with Slobodan Milosevic and then his regime with NATO bombing, i.e. It is not our fault that someone bombed us, but the blame for NATO bombing should be attributed to those who violated international law and without UN Security Council's permission, in fact, at the premises of Serbian countries for the first time applied NATO interventionism and conquerive policy, which was then extended to the whole world. What I have an obligation to say here, although it will not be part of the work of this commission, Mr future president, should be borne in mind that it is not the first NATO bombing of Serbia-Montenegro in 1999, but rather the bombing of Republika Srpska in 1995 and later participation of NATO and US generals in ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Republika Srpska in "Bleska" and "Storm". So, much broader topics of NATO bombing and NATO occupation of Serbia and what we in Dvora 10 years ago called in the special theme of the magazine "The Court of Serbian" – NATO genocide over the Serbian people 1995-1999. What is being raised as one important question is the motives or objectives of the Commission's work. So, you have our support for this commission's work. But we don't trust you. Why? It's very simple. When it comes to the fact that we are talking about the consequences of NATO bombings behind which are actually your great friends, Gerhard Schroeder, who spoke at the pre-election meeting of the Serbian Progressive Party, Tony Blair, who is your advisor in the Government of the Republic of Serbia or maybe Bill Clinton who hugged your president like that at the Clinton Foundation meeting in America, so are these war criminals, and I call them, actually your comrades? And how did we come into this situation that those responsible for economic, ecological and any other destruction of the Serbian state, and above all the destruction of the health of the population in this country, become your great Western friends? That's very unusual. How did it happen that the one responsible for the murder of a child on a carry, three years old, be welcomed in this country with bread and salt? What I think is an important question here is, will the first major report, Clinton, Shredder and Blair, be welcomed again in this country after the commission's work is completed in two years? And will you still consider them your friends, your partners, your counselors and your mentors? What actually comes from the point of work of this committee is – what is your view of the NATO Pact, which bombed us and whose consequences do we suffer?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35886	I'm asking you to return to the agenda. Political views, of course, can be expressed, it's no big deal, but you've been talking exclusively political for seven minutes. Say something about the subject at last. Or does that poor uranium have some hidden facts that we don't know about, and now they're visible?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35887	Mr. Chairman, I have asked you many times, and I will repeat that in the future you will prepare me a speech, that I am only saying what you will approve that can be spoken, not what I think. You didn't interrupt anyone from the heads of parliament, everyone talked about whatever he wanted, only my speech to you is controversial. For what? What do I remind you that you have agreements with the NATO Pact? I didn't sign them, you signed them. And now you're investigating the consequences of the NATO pact bombing. Isn't that a little contradictory, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35888	Historically, colleague Obradovic, after you spoke to me, I must tell you that the first agreement with NATO was signed in 2002 or 2003. I think he was supported by MPs from the parliamentary groups who are sitting around you right now. Just so you know. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35889	So, Mr. Chairman, there's a lot of broader problems that arise from the work of this committee, and I want to run here for the additional objectives of this commission's work. It's an example, let me give you a specific one right now. Does this mean that when we finish the work of this committee, we need to renew our lawsuits against the countries of the NATO Pact? Do I need it based on everything that's been destroyed in this country to seek war reparations? Should we sue all the countries that participated in the persecution of Serbs and the European Christian heritage in Kosovo and Metohija on several occasions? Why do we have military exercises with them now? Why are NATO agents sitting in the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia? And a number of other issues that actually talk about the contradiction that, on the one hand, you maltenes are about to enter the NATO Pact and you've achieved all the way to membership, there's only naked membership left. On the other hand, as we support, to understand, support and raise both hands to vote "yes", finally, after 19 years, one government is moving to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing. And when we are here, with concrete information, I will be very precise, but I will start with Republika Srpska, because I think we owe it to all those who, in their report, are commander of the main headquarters of the Republic of Serbia, General Ratko Mladic, as of 26 September 1995 and says: "In the NATO air attacks the pact on Republika Srpska took part in 3,200 airships that have shaken more than 10,000 tons of explosive material, of which 152 civilians were killed and 273 were injured more easily and more seriously. In Serbia alone, two children were killed in a game near the bridge, and five more severe children were transferred to the VMA in Belgrade. There's a huge material damage that's been done that's been measured by billions of dollars. It was done to destroy the telecommunications information system, the postal connections system, destroy the power plants and power lines and leave the people in the dark, destroy the water supply and prevent drinking water supply, destroy food storage, the economy, cattle farms and the population, destroy numerous residential, medical and public facilities, and thus put the Serbian people in misery and complete isolation." What he stated in his time at a press conference in Banja Luka, General Ratko Mladic, is the definition of genocide over one people. It was just the bombing of the NATO Pact in 1999 and 1995. Here's what the issue of "The Court of Serbian" magazine says when it comes to 1999. It says -- in the course of NATO aggression on Serbia, which lasted 78 days, which was led to establish an independent Kosovo, reminding ourselves of the points actually from a political angle, 21,700 tonnes of the most destructive explosives, 35,450 cluster bombs, 2,900 bombs and missiles and 1,000 cruise missiles were dropped on Serbia. What I would further single out here as an important piece of information and vital information is that in 78 days of bombing, 2,300 civilians and 1.002 soldiers were killed, and 5,000 people were mutilated. 36,219 assault of military aircraft was carried out. Finally, one topic that is, I think, very important to the president of the future commission, which we're going to form, is what in those conclusions, Mr. President, we can do to prevent these consequences from happening. It's one thing for us to understand what they've done and what we're going to have as negative consequences for the health of the population, for the environment and for everyone else to say the consequences, and the other for what we can do to prevent it. Here are some of the proposals that we put forward in this topic of "The Court of Serbian" magazine ten years ago when we launched this topic, as a contribution, a constructive contribution to your future work. It is said that much more can be said about the impoverished uranium, the consequences of its application, the violation of international law and the customs of war, but the accent should be put on the steps that can lead to the prevention of the complete ecological disaster that threatens us. We propose a whole series of measures that need to be implemented to this end, such as the isolation of contaminated areas, the precise determination of the level of contamination in all areas in which NATO aviation, production and application of decontamination programmes, the establishment of monitoring i.e. monitoring the environment in these areas, making studies to monitor the impact on human health, as well as the cancer register. In particular, the active prevention of health consequences should be addressed in the most endangered persons, i.e. delaying the appearance of signs and symptoms of disease, then preventing the occurrence of genetic malformations in offspring, and of course the problem must also be treated from the legal point of view since it is clear that it is a war crime. It is important to know that our country's possible lawsuit against the NATO Pact does not aim at self-satisfaction with justice, but also material gain. This is essential, because decontamination of land from the impoverished uranium requires huge financial resources. One foreign centre claims that decontamination of this amount of radioactive uranium takes about four billion dollars. With this terrible information in mind, it is clear that Serbia must renew its suit against the NATO Pact, both because of the satisfaction of justice, so as to provide even a small part of the funding needed to prevent further development of the ecological disaster. So the political dimension of this commission's work is also the subject. So NATO's primary target of the bombing was the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija. I guess that's important. Except in this commission of ours, there is no subject of the political consequences of NATO bombing. It would be very important to be part of this commission's goal. So, what are the political consequences of NATO bombings, the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, the persecution of the Serb population from Kosovo and Metohija, and whether today, in fact, we are living the finals of all this when at this moment we are expected to have the NATO occupation army round that Shiptar independence and form the so-called. The Kosovo army. Is today, then, 19 years after the bombing, expected to be signed by a legally binding agreement with the false state of Kosovo and practically recognise that independence? Do you run all this, perhaps, to camouflage and plan to sign this legally binding agreement, and on the other hand, you want to fix your violated patriotic rating and image and to say in some way that we are doing something against those who bombed us, while on the other hand you sign the practical surrender of Kosovo and Metohija and the recognition of independent Kosovo. Look, these are legitimate political issues. Because you will allow, if you had honestly thought this, you would have started this six years ago when you came to power. Why have you kept your mouth shut for six years when this is such an important matter for an emergency procedure? Well, wasn't it urgent six years ago as far as population health and environmental disaster are concerned, Mr. Laketti? So, please, this is a serious topic and you're actually responsible that this has not been on the agenda so far and that we're 16 years behind in determining the truth about the consequences of NATO bombing, 19 years. All regimes that have been in power so far are responsible. So why is it that part of the objectives of this commission's work is not political? Of course, I'll mention that there were people who did and how they dealt with this topic. One of our most famous scientists in the world, respected professor Dr. Jasmina Vujic, who you have mentioned so many times in a negative sense here, was the first to deal with this topic long before. She wrote a series of articles about the health and environmental consequences of NATO bombing for the first time. Here, let me give you one of the quotes in her articles, which discusses an international conference since 2001, where at that moment there have been dozens of world and domestic scientists who have opened a topic that is just talking about this issue. So, a group of our experts and scientists from the deployment in September 2001 organizes the International Conference on Ecological Recovery of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which presented 142 works of 320 authors from 21 countries and processed topics – the impact of war on the environment, the ecological consequences of the destruction of industrial plants, water, air and land pollution to toxic chemicals and heavy metals, as well as the medical effects and psychosomatic and social consequences of the bombing, an extraordinary congressman on 1,000 sides in English. So, some serious people, like one of the most famous Serbian scientists in the world and the great Serbian patriot, Professor Jasmina Vujic, were dealing with this topic far before you and this commission of yours, which has been so tragically late for 19 years. I mean all of you who have been in power because you'll admit that we of the Dvora in power have not been and we cannot bear responsibility for this inaction. Of course, the most painful part of the story is the consequences of the rise in carcinogenic disease since 1990, that there were 9,899, and in 2000 22 thousand and something, and in 2011 more than 33 thousand and, of course, the increase in deaths, as a consequence of all of that. So we can't stick our heads in the sand here and pretend we don't know who bombed us, that whoever bombed us declares us a friend of the Serb people, that we host and greet him when he comes to Serbia, that we make agreements with him and go to military exercises, that we negotiate with him the signing of a legally binding agreement with the false state of Kosovo, and that in any other way we refer this NATO genocide to the Serbian people. So the key question for us is – what will be the political consequences of this commission's work? Is this commission going to bring a certain analysis and shut up or will this commission only when it does an analysis to say what we owe to the victims of NATO genocide over the Serb people in Republika Srpska and Serbia for 19 and more years now, to launch a new lawsuit against the NATO pact countries, to seek war damage, to try in any other way to prevent these negative consequences of this ecological and health disaster? I'm asking you to answer that question, so that this suspicion that you're doing all this because you've spent a little bit of your patriotic eagle party, so now you're trying to get back on the patriotic path, and we just can't trust you after six years of your stay in power, and you have to understand our doubts. To be clear, we don't want any war. We want peace for both our and our other children, but we do not want further humiliation of the Republic of Serbia, kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija and continuing practically NATO occupation in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't forget, NATO is still in Kosovo and Metohija as an occupation of the work of our state territory and that's something we need to figure out today. This isn't a topic from 19 years ago, this isn't a long time ago, this is reality. We are now under occupation in Kosovo and Metohija and we are having problems with the NATO Pact today that keeps some of our state territory under occupation. This should be determined by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35890	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is proposed by Mr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35891	We are witnessing today, multiple times, unfortunately, that this topic is flagrantly misused. I'm going to do what I said one more time in my previous presentation. This is a subject that is extremely noble, whose medical and human dimension exceeds the borders of this Parliament. I really can't understand that people, as a previous speaker who is best understood at all, who probably now has all the answers, are first and foremost talking about these things that you'll admit are very sensitive. As for the results of the commission we form, depending on the results, both the legal and political dimensions of this problem will depend, and there is no dilemma. Why prejudge the results before we didn't even vote on the election of the commission? We simply let scientific workers, together with the MPs, build up data, do analysis and methodology that is scientifically acceptable, provide arguments. That's the only way. But obviously there are other problems, when we hear exposure like this. These problems are primarily political. The fact is that we're in the National Assembly, the fact is that every word that's spoken here is also politics and I'm experiencing it that way. However, the election results talk about the support a particular political party has. Apparently, a colleague who spoke before me is having a problem with it, he's having a political problem right now, that there's just such a desire to be abused in some way to score small political points. But in this way, I can't get political points. The people recognize it, and the people will respond adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35892	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35893	Well, first of all, what I have to say is that the friends of the gentleman who just spoke were the people who asked for a third of Serbia to join Bulgaria, Bulgaria is as much as I remember a NATO pact member. He congratulated victory, or entering parliament, is not a victory. For them, victory as it is for a gentleman who spoke a little victory when he crossed 5% and their 5% is greater than our 60%, but he congratulated the entry into parliament of an alternative to Germany. So, Germany is also a member of the NATO Pact, so I'm curious now how he doesn't mind his friends who are in NATO, and he falsely honors us that our advisors are Clinton, Blair, Schroeder or I don't know who from the West either. Gentlemen, there's one thing he's right about. They were never in power, but were therefore financed by any authority that has taken up office in Serbia since 5 October 2000. They were a little financed by the DS, a little bit by the DSS, and just to remind citizens of Serbia's DSS and DSS, and not by the SNS, they signed both the Sofast Agreement and the Partnership for Peace and many other agreements that brought the Republic of Serbia closer to the NATO Pact. One more thing to point out. In 1999, Serbian Progressive Party and ultimately SNS President Aleksandar Vukic actively defended, as the minister of informing Serbia's citizens from NATO. I ask, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, where was he in 1999? He wrote articles for "New Istria" about how the greatest villains for Serbian spirituality and culture are Vuk Karadzic and Dositej Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35894	Thank you. Gordana Komic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35895	Thank you. To mention that DS signed any agreement, at a time when it was a ruling coalition, is the definition of its own impotence. If you have 60%, there is no agreement you can't change, change, put out of force, do with any deal you want. Hiding behind DS policy verbally support the entire agenda that the DS changed in Serbia after wars, sanctions, isolation, everything terrible from the '90s, especially people in Serbia, and then say – well, what we can do, we can't do with that agreement, is an expression of great discomfort and feelings of discomfort that some things are accepted as our own policy. I am pleased that today's government is a performer of political ideas of the DS, a bad performer, with a lot of mockery of European values and European integration, but still a performer. And to prove to you the difference between us, when it comes to really serious topics, as are Serbia's accession to the Partnership for Peace. Here, at this point I'll show you. You gave us notice in the Assembly that MP Maja Gojkovic has authorized MP Laketić to be an authorised representative. I know that he can't, you know that he can't, since the signatories of the motion for a decision are MP Maja Gojkovic. And, not that we don't intend to talk about making fun of a serious subject with an amazing procedure, but we wouldn't even mention it if you didn't insist on explaining your own discomfort that you're leading or trying to run the European policy that she created and founded DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35896	Right to the replica Bosko Obradović. You, have answered, excuse my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35897	You're right, Mrs. Comic, therefore, there are huge differences between DS and SNS. The Serbian Progressive Party has not conducted a single robbery privatisation in Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party has not fired 400,000 people in four years and we have not destroyed any jobs, but we have reduced unemployment from 27 to 12%. Unlike you, who had a negative growth rate of 3.2 and sometimes 3.6 and who in 2008 said that the global economic crisis is a chance for Serbia. We have opened hundreds of thousands of new jobs in Serbia, opened hundreds of new factories, and today people can live from their work in Serbia. It is true, there are great differences between DS and SNS, we have not destroyed a single tank, we have not destroyed a single arrow, we are strengthening our defence and military capacities and what is also very important, we are not reaching political points on the accidents of Serbian citizens, we are not looking forward when a helicopter crashes in Serbia, when a plane crashes, when a man kills a woman or a rape happens. You think it's politics, and we don't think it is. So I agree with that. As for the fact that Maja Gojkovic cannot be authorised by Mr. Laketić to be authorised, i.e. to represent the promoter, it is simply not true. There's one method of interpretation. Interpreting by analogy. As the Serbian government proposes laws, so it empowers individual ministers to represent them in the National Assembly, so did Mrs. Maja Gojkovic as the proposer of an act to be adopted by the Assembly authorised Mr. Darko Laketić to represent the promoters. So it is nothing against the Rules of Procedure, and in order for Serbian citizens to know, so does Mrs. Komic, but she will not say it for political reasons, Maja Gojkovic is in Turkey and receiving an order from Mr. Erdogan because she is responsible for strengthening partner ties both in political and economic terms between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey, and we are proud of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35898	Here you go, colleague Obradovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35899	Thank you, Chairman. Well, that's how you were proud of the friendship at Gerhard Schroeder who spoke at the pre-election SNS meeting in Belgrade, so you were proud of Tony Blair, who with the greatest honors came to you to arrange for you how the government of the Republic of Serbia works. Be careful, the one who bombed us, the war criminal, to arrange for us how our government works. Well, you paid money to visit the Clinton Foundation's annual meeting in America and there's this famous picture of Bill Clinton and Alexander Vukic. If you're ashamed of it now, Mr. Martinovic, that's good. If you've changed your mind and remembered that these are war criminals, not Serbian friends, it's important for this country. It is very dangerous for the ruling party to believe that those who bombed us are our friends. If you're back to these patriotic sources of politics, that's huge progress, because you're actually just playing patriotism, and behind that you're doing everything the DS did. I don't know where you got the right to criticise the DS, because you continued DS policy. What's the difference between you and DS? Are they going to the EU? They're going, and you're going. Because they're signing agreements with the NATO Pact? And you sign. Because they're negotiating with the Shiptars? And, you're negotiating, you even want to go further than Boris Tadic to sign a legal-binding agreement with the fake state of Kosovo. You want to leave, what was unimaginable for the DS to do, to recognise an independent Kosovo. You're just asking to be given anything in return. What can I get you in return? Who allowed you to give Kosovo and Metohija to anyone for Serbia's devastating path to the EU at all costs. So these are serious questions. You can't get away from it. As for the military engagement of your President, Alexander Vukic, I only remember that apartment he received from the government of the Republic of Serbia while the boys were killed in Kosharam and no apartment was received.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35900	My colleague Obradovic, there is no insult in parliament today, and I said this morning that I would be very, very strict. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Who have I offended? You have offended the President of the State. (Bosko Obradovic: What have I offended? ) Aleksandar Martinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35901	As for Mr. Schrader, I hope Mr. Bosko Obradovic is watching television. I saw on TV that Mr. Gerhard Schrader was sitting in the front row now days ago when the inauguration of the newly elected president of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Gerhard Schroeder is not the enemy of Serbia and is not the enemy of the Serb people and Gerhard Schroeder has not come up with the idea of bombing the Republic of Serbia. As for your engagement, I know what your policy is, your policy is the same as that of the Democratic Party of Serbia, whose lists you were elected to the National Assembly, with a little help from the ambassadors of the United States, who cried and cried until you allegedly won that 5%. So that your aversion to Americans is such a very discussional category. You don't like them, but when you have to enter the Assembly, then the Americans are good to you. Then it's good help for you when the American ambassador says that you should once again run an analysis of the election results and realize that between the two of us and Dvori have crossed 5%. Unlike you, Mr. Obradovic, I have never claimed that the greatest spiritual enemies of the Serb people Vuk Karadzic and Dositej Obradovic. I don't think it even occurred to those who served the Germans openly during World War II. I first read this in the magazine "New Spark" and below is Boško Obradovic's signature. Here, just to ask Bosko Obradovic if he continues to represent those 1999 views that Vuk Karadzic and Dositej Obradovic are destroyers of Serbian spirituality and Serbian culture?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35902	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe he is a member of 107. The Rules of Procedure injured - the dignity of the National Assembly, because I can't stand being equaled by someone to be the same as those who fired 1,300 terrorists from the KP of the Zabel Institute in 2001. It is the legacy of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia and start living with it once. You let the Mazreka brothers go, they let Fijore Brovina go, and I can never be the same as them. Never! Political programs can be the same, but actions speak quite differently. I don't want to talk about tanks, closed factories. It is true that those who were selected from the DSS on the same list and participated in the release of the Ship's terrorists, if nothing else, supported it. It's true they were funded by DS. You want me to tell you the location? And the most beautiful of the dead, so I don't want to mention names.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35904	My colleague Arsic, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Veloljub Arsic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Right on line, Mrs. Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35905	Thank you. It is fully expected that people think that if negatively, ugly and slander defines others, then they themselves turn out to be better. Man's style. It's everyone's choice and everyone's right. It's not my intention to resent anyone who thinks they'll look better if they're ugly with DS. It's an honor to meet you. My intention was to explain that my commitment to the seriousness of this topic is by giving up on the fact that a single MP is treated as an entire Serbian government by analogy and that the Service of the Assembly and we all allow one MP to empower someone who is not a signator of a decision to be an authorised representative at points. As I say, you've just established a rule. Don't be the first person to start, if you get hundreds of papers where anyone proposes to be authorized on any basis. It is not my intention to ask for it to be corrected, nor my intention to challenge Mr. Laketić to defend it, but my intention is to always make it clear to everyone. There are people who love it when you make fools out of them, there are us who don't love it, and then we say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35906	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35907	I, Mrs. Comic, wish, as I see the National Assembly being used as an instrument for the internal struggle in the DS, I wish you Mrs. Comic a lot of success in these internal elections. I want you to win those elections, and I hope that the DS with you will have a little more success than with your predecessors. What surprised me is that you as someone who, if I'm not mistaken, are the vice president of the National Assembly, distinguish the two entities, the promoter from the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. So, Maja Gojkovic is not an authorised representative, but a proponent, such as the Serbian government, is the legislator. As the Serbian government, as a legislator, has the right to determine who will represent it in the National Assembly, so also Maja Gojkovic, as a proposer of this decision, has the right to propose, i.e. the authority to represent her in her absence. Therefore, the matter is quite clear, and the SNS has its own authorised representative, and this is Mr. Milovan Drecun, who will speak to you later. Therefore, if you have tried to say that the Rules of Procedure, the technology of today's work, are injured, I tell you that it is not, because the same principle is applied and when laws are passed and decisions are made because the laws and decisions are acts that are taken, or acts adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, any attempt to cast a shadow on the decision that we're going to make will not come your way. All that is done today is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and this decision will be made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35908	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35909	The Chairman, a member of Rule 104, was injured. I would just like to say here, since the president of our parliamentary group has been offended, that Mr Obradovic did not state his position, he quoted only the position of Serbian's greatest poet, Petar Petrovic Njegos, from August 2, 1837, where he expressed his position on Dosite, which I think is right, so I would just like to read that you see what we were quoting at the time. "I would respect Dosite if he had been able to turn his gift mentally to the benefit of our people, but to turn him is not washable and therefore despise him. As a man who has not seen what the happiness of the people is in, what can cause him harm and how a man who has been a tool of ridiculers over the noble Serbian people." In 1837, Njegos said about his work of Dosite Obradovic, about his criticism of Serbian ethnicity, so I just want you to point out next time to the MPs when they insult, to face some historical facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35910	Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic: Rules of Procedure. Just a moment, one explanation for my colleague Kostic. I only understood the debate between counterparts Martinovic and counterpart Obradovic, so opposing political views. I didn't take it as an insult and an insult. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (John Kostic: No. You don't want to. Thank you. Alexander Martinovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35911	Article 107 has been injured, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm not asking you to vote. Petar Petrovic Njegos dedicated his most famous work "Gorski Venac" by Karadzic Petrovic, the powder of Serbia's father. Serbia's father, Karadjordje, has just taken Dosite Obradovic as his first guardian of education. In 1811, Obradovic was praised by the Dvora people for knowing much, without us knowing anything, and became Serbia's first minister of education in 1811. I haven't heard from the former president of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, come on now, I see you have some reason to hate Dosite Obradovic. What do you hate about Vuk Karadzic? Can you read to me some of you what poor Vuk Karadzic did to you, except he described the Serbian people and besides what he said and therefore the Croats can't see it today, that they're all Serbs? There's one more thing I don't get. To you, who are allegedly the exclusive representatives of Serbian national interests, how is it that your friends are those who demand that four districts in southern Serbia join Bulgaria? How is it that your friends are those who walk to Blyburg every year and place their crowns on a stone on which they write – in honor and glory to the late Croatian army? Well, you brought this man here to the National Assembly gallery, photographed with him, depicted him as some great friend of your political organization. Then you honor us as we allegedly want to betray Kosovo and Metohija, we want to betray it, and you will defend it. Just tell me, where from, from the Terrace, from the Chapanese Library? From what place do you think you are defending Kosovo and Metohija, those who cannot win 2% of the vote? On whose behalf are you speaking?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35912	Thank you. Right to replica, first Mrs Gordana Komic, then Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35913	Thank you. Indeed, I will no longer ask for a replica, since I respect the will, I thought together, that this session should pass without any replicas, and this is the last one, to leave beyond any doubt that I wanted to challenge the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which we have received about the fact that the MP who signed the motion for a decision, and on this proposal, it is only her signature, to inform us as a national MP that she has authorized someone to propose, therefore, that I wanted it to be a subject, so I would begin the session with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. But I didn't, because I don't consider it worthy of the majority to give analoguely to one MP, one of the people's MPs, who signed the decisions herself, to accept the entire assembly that it determines who will be the promoter of that decision, which is not the signator of the decision. I only mentioned – expect this practice in the future then. Neither did I want to slow down, nor did I think that fellow Laketić would do it with less credibility and knowledge than Maja Gojkovic. But just to use this replica so there's always people who like to make fools of them. It's not bad, who loves it, but there are those of us who don't love it, especially if you're going to verbalize a very important topic, such as the decision on this committee and at the same time do the opposite. Thank you, Vice President, for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35914	Thank you. Right on the line, Bosko Obradovic, then Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35915	Thank you. Between Aleksandra Martinović and Petar II Petrovic Njegos, I will define myself as Njegosje's opinion on Dosite. Not Vuk Karadzic, nor Dossili are the lighthouses. These are extremely large and magnificent figures of Serbian cultural history, but they also had serious flaws in their enlightening work. That's all I've talked about and I'm going to talk about, because these flaws have cost us certain spiritual and linguistic revolutions that have caused damage to the Serbian people. For example, Vuk Karadzic has crippled the Serbian literary language by rejecting a complete medieval language tradition. It cost us a lot until we managed to rebuild ourselves somehow after that devastating side of his otherwise very successful historical reform. So things aren't simple. And those who don't know them shouldn't talk about it. On the other hand, what you know well, you know who created SNS, which is DS. You know it was created in the agreement between Aleksandar Vukic and Miki Rakic, head of the cabinets of the then DS and Boris Tadic. So don't tell anyone else about funding by DS. You were created by DS. That's ridiculous. Of course, what's your technique, everything that's positive about the Two, you're trying to represent the people the opposite. If we're a family movement, then we're beating women, if we're patriots, then we're CIA agents, if we do anything right, then the president of the Assembly Diaspora Committee, Mr. Ivan Kostic, because he did a great job, so the people don't hear that the Dvori and the opposition have someone who works well, who works top-notch, who works well. So he's got to change. And, today, no president of the assembly committee in this assembly of parliament is from the opposition. It's proof of your democratic culture. As for Kosovo, it has been agreed with Thaci, these days, that you will sign Kosovo's betrayal in a few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35916	Now you have also challenged the right to the replica of Mrs. Komic, even though she said she would not answer. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35917	Indeed, I had no intention of insulting Mrs. Comic, nor of making a fool out of her, as she says. Mrs. Comic doesn't lead anyone to make a fool of her, but Mrs. Comic, we don't like SNS MPs to make fools of us either. So, every bill that comes to the National Assembly, you see that there is only the signing of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. In that letter, the government defines whom it defines as its representative in the National Assembly. Explain to me the difference between the act proposed by the Government and the act proposed by the MP? So, Maja Gojkovic is not an authorised representative but is a proponent, such as the government's legislator, so Maja Gojkovic proposes the decision. As for Mr. Boško Obradovic and his interpretation of the work of Vuk Karadzic, he wrote in 1999 in the Latvian magazine "New Spark" that I am now not convincing you everything, that Dositej Obradović and Vuk Karadžić are anti-advocacy and anti-hospital people and that they started some five revolutions, I really have no idea what this is about. I only know one thing. I don't know what five revolutions Dositej Obradovic and Vuk Karadzic started, but I only know one thing. That you said that Vuk Karadzic interrupted a thread of Serbian literature and spirituality and culture with medieval literature and that he was supposed to be an anti-Church man, well, let me just tell you one thing that you either don't know or don't want to say. Well, his chief associate in gathering folk motifs and folk sayings, folk songs, was one of the most important spiritual and church people of the 19th century Lukian Musicki. Lukian Musski was one of the main associates of Vuk Karadzic and supported...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35918	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35919	Let me finish. And supported language reform in the sense that it's written as people speak. Since you don't recognize Wolf's language reform, I beg you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35920	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35921	Here I am, Mr. Marinkovic. They keep getting me. Let me just say one sentence. You, Mr. Obradovic, then address the National Assembly as the Serbs spoke in the Middle Ages, because you do not recognise the reform of Vuk Karadzic. So, please, in the future, speak to us in Serbian medieval language.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35922	Thank you. Gordana Komic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35923	Thank you. Every MP, including MP, Bosko Obradovic, has the right to his position, assessment and opinion, and the Rules of Procedure allow us to intervene and say that somewhere he misjudges, does not think well or makes libels. But again in the spirit of this session really coming back to the topic that we met about and the education of the commission, my replica will be that free, whoever it takes to look more beautiful, gentle and defamatory, the Democratic Break, go ahead and do it nicely, you can pink, envy and earn, be my guest until further notice, and with the hope that we will now return to the subject for which we met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35924	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I accept your suggestion, although I am personally interested in listening to Mr. Martinovic's and Obradovic's arguments, but in order not to return to the Middle Ages, let's move on. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35925	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, the SNS' position on the events in 1999 is crystal clear. I want to do it again. NATO led the United States without declaring war committed aggression on our country, which is criminal in all aspects. Because he indiscriminately murdered the civilian population, the children, the old, the sick, the women, for killing the members of our security forces, our heroes who defended their country. Because it hit only seven tanks of the legendary Pristina Corps of over 450, but it heroically hit over 370 industrial buildings. Because he bombed us with ammunition that was banned and caused irreparable damage. We don't forget it, and that's why we're forming this commission that no one has succeeded before us, nor has he had the courage to form. The Serbian Progressive Party will not remain trapped in the war, in the past, but will be turned to the future. We must build this future in an area where a dominant military factor is the NATO Pact, without co-operation with the NATO Pact, can only re-emerge with the Alliance. If anyone else gets a mandate to do it, go ahead. We didn't get that mandate from the citizens, nor will we. As far as the commission is concerned, the SNS will provide full capacity with support for the establishment and operation of the commission, with the aim of determining the actual situation of the consequences of NATO bombing, on how much these effects affect human health, and in order to be able to take action, systemically, long-term, to reduce the damage to this negative fact of the NATO Pact in 1999, because we care for Serbia's citizens' health, on the health of the nation, especially on the health of members of our security forces. Those heroes of ours that some remember here and there. These are the same heroes who heroically defended the homeland, and on Paštrick, and on Gorožup, and on Čičevica, and on Bajgor, and on Kosharam, and now many of them die from the fact of ammunition with the impoverished uranium. In front of the SNS, I would like to acknowledge my colleague, Laketić, who, for years, systematically, persistently collected materials so that this commission could be formed, established contacts and finished a huge job. Thank him for that. We are convinced that he will be fully committed to this commission-led business and that we will have the expected results. Now I would also like to say something to remind you, and all of us together and citizens of Serbia about some of the facts that show why it is justified to put on the agenda the formation of this commission. During NATO's aggression, NATO waged an indirect chemical-biological war against the citizens of the then-SRJ and the environment. In explosives and rocket fuels during the bombing, chemical compounds used to release large amounts of highly toxic and carcinogenic compounds or chemical radicals through their combustion. A total of 113 locations in the area of SRJ were shot with poor uranium. Most of them were dumped in KIM territory. Just what we will pay great attention to these areas contaminated in KIM shows our attitude towards the southern province. Absolutely false claims fall within the scope of brutal political lies, that the current government or SNS is ready to sign some kind of legal-binding agreement with the state of Kosovo. That, gentlemen, which you claim may be you if you ever get a term of office in a thousand years, so you can run the country. We're not gonna do that. To remind you, the Brussels Agreement was reached in a status neutral framework. Since you don't know what that means, let me teach you a little bit. That means it's not an agreement between the two states. If such an agreement had been reached, then we would have celebrated in the streets of Pristina, among Albanians. It was thrown at Serbia about 13 tonnes of impoverished uranium. Otherwise, several locations are located in the territory of Montenegro, in the area of southern, central Serbia, Presevo-Bujanovac. The first proof that the impoverished uranium was used was just the grain I recorded in the village of Srpska House near Bujanovska Banja, and from that moment on, my personal struggle to prove the consequences of the impoverished uranium. The use of this ammunition on civilians is prohibited by the Resolution of the Sub-Committee for the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of the Human Rights Commission of 1996 and 1997. So it wasn't just illegal aggression, it was used and illegal illegal ammunition. The detonation of different missiles, containing conventional explosives, in the atmosphere was caused by a large amount of gases that produce acid rain. The released gases are toxic, and when combined with the combustion products of certain chemical compounds, the effects of the chemical war. Bombing targeted targets, industrial plants and warehouses, chemical raw materials, as well as burning oil tanks and oil plants are indirectly caused by effects resulting in the use of battle poisons. Due to explosions and fires in the air, land and water streams have reached vast quantities of highly toxic and perilous matter. Such bombings cause an ecological disaster to threaten the area with sources of unpolluted water and food. The shooting of chemical industry factories such as Petrochemia, Azotara and oil refinery in Pancheva and Novi Sad, the first spark in Barič, oil tanks at multiple locations and other facilities located on the banks of the Sava and Danube River, except for the pollution of the atmosphere and land, has caused pollution of water streams. So NATO strategists planned, deliberately polluted the air, water and country in Serbia, and thus endangered the health of its citizens. That's why this committee is being formed. Even the American Congress, this is my message to the US ambassador in Belgrade, to find us this document or to look at it for a little while, formed a Commission that examined the degree of environmental pollution in Serbia following NATO's aggression. A report submitted by the Commission said that the degree of pollution is extremely high and that the most polluted cities of Panchevo, Kragujevac, Novi Sad. The Commission said further information was requested from the US Ministry of Defence on the bombing, but was not received. Your Excellency, Mr. Scott, find us that additional information, see if you're hiding anything. This is important for building our bilateral relations and for strengthening mutual trust. That NATO committed crimes on purpose and plannedly testifying to US General Michael Short's statement, the chief air operations on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, whose son, by the way, was shot over the territory of Cosmet by our heroes in aircraft A10. When I say ours, I mean the hero of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. Short says there can't be a war unless we destroy the possibilities of normal life for most of the population. We need to take away, quote, water, electricity, food, even healthy air. It's done. How terrible the situation of the dirty and criminal aggression of the United States and NATO on Serbia shows instructions from US soldiers, who came to Cosmet, unlike Italian soldiers, to say the least. The instruction is that nothing from the ground is touched with their bare hands, that they do not drink water from the field, or that they take any of the food from the locals. What the commission, when formed, will deal with, I suggested that Dr. Laketić call as a possible witness for Bakara Kante. Namely, why does this man matter? In May 1999, the UN in general hid a shocking report from the public by Lt. Bakari Kante, head of the UN's first mission to the human environment on the environmental consequences of the SRJ bombing. The UN text has never been published, but its parts have been leaked to the public thanks to US independent journalist Robert Parsons, a reporter from international institutions in Geneva. He managed to obtain Kante's report from his source in UNEP and 17 June 1999, publishing his parts in the Geneva daily "Kurije", under the heading "A secret alarmer report on the consequences of the Yugoslav bombing -- poisons the UN will not see". Robert Parsons testifies that the UN offices, in the atmosphere of internal dissension, censored and haired a report on the health consequences of the use of weapons with impoverished uranium in the Balkans. After 12 days of staying in another bombed-out SRJ, in May 1999, where it was with the missions of other UN agencies, Bakari Kante submitted to UNEP a report on environmental horror - the atmosphere and soil in the former SRJ were permanently polluted with toxic matter due to the bombing of industrial chemical complexes and the use of weapons with impoverished uranium. The report is categorical in the assessment that the next generations living on bombed soil will suffer from carcinogenic diseases, leukemia, will increase the number of spontaneous abortions and malformations of newborns, as is happening. The Bakari Kantea report says that the bombing of nature in the SRJ has polluted toxic substances among which the most dangerous polychlorobiphenyls are highly carcinogenic and responsible for immune diseases. The report stresses that one liter of the substance is enough to pollute a billion liters of water. It is precisely this substance that is located in the electrical transformer cells and in numerous oil refineries that were NATO's target. The bombing of numerous factories using heavy metals has caused, among other things, the spread of cadmium and methylised mercury, which is the most toxic form alive. It's about metals that remain toxic even if they blow up in a space of thousands of miles. The eighth chapter of the censored report by Bakari Kante discusses pollution caused by the use of weapons with poor uranium. So, the UN representative is absolutely certain that the use of ammunition with poor uranium leaves consequences for people's health, which even in this parliament are trying to disprove them. According to available data from NATO force, Bakari Kante, they used ammunition with impoverished uranium to target military and civilian targets. A.30 millimeter ammunition was used, it was fired mostly from an A10-type aircraft, as well as “tahavk” cruise missiles. Their charge is radioactive, this is the UN's report. It's thought to contain uranium 238. Uranium belongs to a group of toxic elements that enter another group of radionucleids of very high toxicity. This type of ammunition is nuclear waste and its use is very dangerous to health, the conclusion of Bakari Kante. The use of this ammunition has terrible consequences for the population, as it causes radiological contamination in addition to physical injuries. The contamination has toxic and radiation consequences caused by cancer, according to a report by Cante, which he sent to UNEP Director-General Klaus Tofer in 1999. Cants further states - when used, i.e. explosions with impoverished uranium are produced by uranium oxide, including highly reactive gases of radium and radon. Oxid particles are the widths between 0.5 and 5 microns and the wind can carry them. Journalist Robert Parsons, who came up with this report and published it, said a directly referred diplomatic source told him that in July 1999, a group of Swiss scientists came to even more dramatic conclusions about the consequences of poored uranium in the Balkans than those contained in the banned report by Bakara Kante. Their research was part of the activities of the Focus diplomatic group, consisted of Switzerland, Austria, Russia and Greece. Since Switzerland was the one covering all the costs, the other members of the group had to keep quiet, says Robert Parsons. I quote all of this to you to understand how terrible the campaign to cover up the truth about polluting our environment and the consequences that generations of both these and future will suffer. Staying in Yugoslavia in May 1999, while bombings continue, Kante is witnessing an ecological disaster. He writes – serious damage was done to the human environment by destroying oil refineries, oil chemical complexes, chemical and artificial fertiliser factories, pharmaceutical and other industrial plants. The question is, could NATO have distinguished these facilities from military targets? Of course he could. The question is, why did he target these plants on purpose? The answer cannot be different than to cause irreparable damage to our citizens' health and environmental damage. Yes, it is a criminal bombing. The settlements are worst hit on KIM, Bakari Kante said. He concludes that different types of targeted international assistance are needed to face the consequences of bombing both the human environment and the population. Now there's an explanation why this commission needs to clear up with propaganda, as one MP said, and to put the facts first. Here's who ran the propaganda. Klaus Topher, UNEP director-general, ordered that the public turn aside knowledge of the environmental disaster in Serbia, unprecedented in European history. In a censored report, Bakiri Kant also warned - the NATO bombing took place at a time of cutting off agricultural cultures of vital importance for the population, corn, sunflowers, soybeans, sugars, sugar tails and vegetables. The poored uranium had an effect on the quality of air, soil, water, which had both long-term and short-term negative effects on the food chain. As soon as it was submitted, the report was classified into the UN and removed from the public and probably ended up in UNEP headquarters in Nairobi. None of the humanitarian organisations in Geneva were during the events, and not even employees at UNEP headquarters in Geneva, according to US journalist Parsons. UNEP set up a Balkan task force in autumn 1999 to produce a definitive report on the environmental consequences of the bombing. Peka Havistov, former Finnish Minister of Ecology, was named head of the group. The second report was also rewritten by Robert Bise, underparol and Klaus Topher's right hand, UNEP Director General. Finally, the Balkan task force within the UNEP was the one who alerted the world public on 16 February 2001, announcing that dirty uranium was thrown into Kosovo. It was then announced that the analysis of 340 soil samples of water, etc. showed the presence of transuranium elements U236 and traces of plutonium and fission process. The presence of plutonium was confirmed by two laboratories, the Swedish Institute of Radiological Protection and the Swiss laboratory. I think what I said and what my colleague Laketić said before puts beyond reasonable doubt the need to form this commission and determine the facts. These facts should not be emotionally established, they are very important for the health of the nation, for the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I talk about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I also think about all those who live on KIM and Albanians and Serbs and Roma, the Gorans and Bosniaks. It is our duty to the generations that will only be born, to enable them to face as little as possible the consequences of the NATO pact's criminal bombing in 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35926	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are going to work on applications for the word of the MPs. The People's Messenger, Nada Kostic, has the word. He's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miroslav Lazanski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would suggest to the future commission not only to fully analyse the report coming from Italy, but also to address the trade unions of the Belgian National Defence System, particularly Mr Albert Devilers, who said in his 2000 report that during the year of stay of the Belgian contingent in Kosovo, about 200 Belgian soldiers and officers received carcinogenic diseases, eight of which died within a year. At the time of 2000, the head of the Belgian military-medical sanity in Van Hof also listed details about brain tumors, skin cancer and leukemia, as regards Belgian soldiers in the contingent, and all of this was published in a Belgian magazine called "Parameters", wrote a journalist named Vincent Golding, so that this commission could also be a little referenced. When it comes to the bombings we experienced in 1999, the first A-10 planes fired at the premises of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on March 28th and 30th. A total of 112 hits over 91 locations, of which two locations were located in Montenegro's premises, 12 locations are on the premises of southern Serbia, and 98 locations in Kosovo and Metohija. These bombings in the impoverished uranium have been intensified for the last ten days of the war, where, according to some data, 12 to 15 tons of impoverished uranium has been thrown into our space. The most critical sites in Serbia outside of Kosovo and Metohija were Pljačevica, where the radioactivity recorded is 1,100 times the normal one, Borovec – 85 times the normal one, Bratoselce – 116 times the normal one and Reljan – at two locations 200 times the normal one, while Lušnica peninsula in Montenegro and the Arza Cape recorded radioactivity 350 times the normal one. When we talk about what the facts are and what propaganda is, we must be aware that even in the West, there was a strong tendency to reduce the harmful effect of this bombing, especially when it comes to radioactivity, so even the Western media were very difficult to access data and that the United States was making great pressures on various international organisations to cover up the whole thing. I had already said in one address what happened with the World Health Organization and the falsification of the British physicist Kit Beverstock's report on what was thrown into the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and that the project manager of the World Health Organization's study Mr. Mike Ripacholi concluded that these quantities that were dropped on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were not critical and that the poor uranium was actually healthy and that, based on this report, Mr. Ripacholi, Carla del Ponte, dropped the suit against NATO, as regards the use of poor uranium. A few authors later proved that Mr. Ripacholi actually forged Mr. Kit Beverstock's report. According to a former US Navy officer, in 1993, the Pentagon refused to comply with Congress's request to examine the health consequences arising from the poored uranium use, which was in 1993 after Desert Storm in 1991. Gentlemen, you're talking here for the first time about poor uranium, etc. Or maybe you talked ten years ago. I was the only Yugoslav journalist who was in the Desert Storm in 1991, and I know what the consequences were, and I personally saw American mechanics stacking bullet directors 30 millimeters with poor uranium in the A-10s, all in protective suits, with gas masks or protective masks. No one was free, and they claimed that bullet wasn't poisoned until it hit the barrier, until it hit the building, the tank, the ground, and then there was radioactive dust, and they put those bullets in the drawers under protective gear and masks. The journalists we saw from a long distance also got their masks and protective suits. So we can talk about Desert Storm in 2003, when I was in the Second Gulf War, as the only Yugoslav journalist ever. I had a chance to see that with the British using bombs when they were shooting the base environment. In 1994, I was at the invitation of the Iraqi Ministry of Defence to see that famous bunker in Baghdad that killed over 250 women and children who were being shot with that kind of ammunition and I had a chance to look at the Iraqi Ministry of Defense report back then. Of course, those reports in our press were going through a little bit. I wrote a few texts about it in "Politics", and I have material evidence for it. Perhaps the commission should do little to address the report by the Vinca Institute of Nuclear Sciences, which also discusses the use of uranium-238 in certain locations in the Institute's report of 23.4. and 21.5.1999. When it comes to Americans, I will remind you of the professor of physics of Mr. Doug Rock, otherwise former US Army Major, Director of the Project Development Program with the impoverished uranium, otherwise the head of radiological protection of the U.S. Army, which he published in 1994, means, he was referencing the Desert Storm in 1991, which confirmed the documents that the U.S. government had been aware of the genocide of the poor uranium since 1943, when they were actually starting probably the first attempts with that. As far as we are concerned, I would remind you of a guide, a manual of 22 November 1999 signed by Colonel Oswaldo Bizari for members of the multinational brigade "West", following the entry of KFOR into Kosovo and Metohija, they received this instruction titled "KFOR, International Brigade, West, impoverished uranium, Information and Instructions". The report, which has a dead body head on the home page, says: “Keep away from tanks, vehicles, and buildings affected by missiles or cruise missiles with impoverished uranium. Wear a protective mask, wear protective suits, avoid such locations, inhale insoluble particles of uranium dust, is long-term associated with health consequences, including cancer and malformation of newborns. These consequences can only become visible a few years later." This uranium ammunition, to remind you, is forbidden by the Hague conventions of 1899 and 1907, but not as uranium ammunition, because there was no such time, and the Geneva conventions of 1923, 1925 and 1949 as inhuman weapons. The report on the West sector also recommends: "Walk often uniforms, food and water will become unusable due to dust contamination of poor uranium. Do not eat food that is not previously controlled." This manual speaks unequivocally and confirms the fact that NATO's war plans and crimes against the peace of bombing of Yugoslavia, at that time, and before the start of our country's bombing, knew that weapons of impoverished uranium were dangerous, carcinogenic and genotoxic. They warned their members of the threat, and civilians and the population never warned about the dangers they were threatened by, but the public at the same time today cheat that there is no danger. It's interesting why the Italians and the Belgians stayed behind for that kind of information. For example, you don't have these phenomena in the Americans, in the French, in the Canadians, in the British. As the poor Italians and the Belgians only experienced it on their skin, this remains to be asked by their ministries, or by the people who worked at the Ministry of Defense at the time, although I personally doubt that we will get the right answers, because they too are under great pressure from the Americans to get as much divorce as possible and to get as far away from them as possible. There is a very plastic example when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there they have also announced the exercise of A-10 aircraft on the Manjači polygon next year at Banja Luka, so there has been a lot of fuss about it, because Americans are in writing guaranteeing that they will not use ammunition with impoverished uranium. On the issue of the United Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH, they say, "We will guarantee you that we will not use that ammunition," avoiding them saying that when they are on the runway, they are parked, when they are in exercise, during exercise or before training, no other soldier can approach except the US military police force. So, there's no gunman in BiH who can check out what's in the Redling GAU-8-caliber on the A-10 plane. That's what Americans won't allow any stranger. Now you can take their word for it. Speaking of BiH, I'm going to give you an example of journalist Zoran Žuža, who told you about "Mondo" that an Italian journalist had a problem finding a talker who would confirm that the death of a few dozen Italian soldiers who served in BiH, means there the Italians also felt what that ammunition was on their skin, that the death had something to do with the fact that they were stationed in the space exposed to ammunition with the impoverished uranium. Mr. Seselj mentioned Hadzic earlier. It was the JNA Military Remont Institute, followed by the Republika Srpska Army Military Remont Institute and was shot with the ammunition. You should go to Bratunac, where that institution moved out afterwards, to see what was the mortality of the people who came from Hadzic to Bratunac. These are mass deaths from leukemia people who just worked in Hadzic during the war. Hadzic was specifically shot with that kind of ammunition. So, when the Italian journalist brought in a bullet from Hadzic's Remont Institute, so he brought in several of these penetrators, whole rounds of ammunition, and brought them to NATO's command in Sarajevo, when he showed soldiers and officers what he would like to give them, they fled, an alert was given in a command that lasted several hours, until a specialised German army team arrived on the spot with special protective equipment. They picked up remains of radioactive ammunition in special metal containers and drove them in an unknown direction. Professor Leonard Adic (Diletz) said in an article in the ‘Losangelos Times’ back in 1980 that the State of New York by that year forced the plant to produce a penetrating uranium penetrator to stop producing, because every month the prescribed restrictions on the release of radioactivity in the air of 150 micro-kires were exceeded. This value corresponds to the amount of 387 grams of impoverished uranium, and only in one 30-millimeter projectile from aircraft A-10 you have 298 grams of impoverished uranium. So we have to ask ourselves, if the authorities of the State of New York banned, were concerned and banned by the emergence of radioactivity in the air, whose monthly radioactivity equivalent is only two 30 mm caliber missiles, and they banned the entire factory, how can we not be concerned today about everything that has been delivered to us, because of all the missiles, missiles, and perhaps even a grenade of classical artillery with that kind of charge? When we say -- uranium 238, so it's not just, and I think Mr. Seselj mentioned that it's also used plutonium, which is true, plutonium 239, which is even more dangerous than this uranium 238, it's the most toxic radioactive waste. The predecessors said, or Mr. Laketić said why it went to this type of penetrator charge. You on plane A-10 can't place a top-class, larger caliber, that would break tank armor, especially on the side. So, you can place a cannon on a gun like that at a maximum of 30 mm. A.30-millimeter classic doesn't break through tank armor. It must have a core of either uranium or heavy metal, sulfame, etc. The charge of such ammunition with heavy metals is very expensive. Filling with poor uranium is very cheap. You have it in large quantities at nuclear warehouses as a by-product of production in nuclear power plants and, of course, it's the easiest thing to get rid of that waste by packing it up in ammunition, in orderlies, and you're going to shoot countries like us, countries that didn't have adequate defenses. For all these data on the toxicity of the poored uranium, there are many reports in various professional magazines. I will mention another professor, Dr. Asif Durakovic, who worked for the U.S. Department of Defence and proved the link between poor uranium and Gulf Syndrome. Gulf syndrome is what happened to American and British soldiers after the 1991 Desert Storm. It's also covered up. Several American journalists were fired in their offices when they even tried to write about it. Professor Dr. Asif Durakovic was also expelled from the service and eyeslessly persecuted. German professor Dr. Gunther also proved and announced a causal-consequential link between the poored uranium and the population's disease, especially children, in Iraq after the 1991 war. He left significant papers and testimony in this area. In Germany, from Iraq in 1992, he brought the remains of ammunition with impoverished uranium for questioning, so the Berlin court condemned him for irresponsiblely handling radioactive material, which led to the possibility of contamination, which could cause health disorders. So, we, gentlemen, here have the judgment of the German court of 1992 that the irresponsible handling of the remains of that ammunition can lead to great radioactivity at the site where it was taken. Professor Alfred Sot also proved between chromosome aberrations, which occurred in children of Gulf War veterans and poor uranium, and which will be repeated in the offspring chain of these families, that it is a real epidemic. Professor Doug Rock, who I have already mentioned, answered the question whether the use of ammunition with the impoverished uranium war crimes, absolutely is. Why can't you in the U.S. throw 500 grams of poor uranium into no man's yard without going to a long term sentence, serving a prison sentence? What else can I say that's not already said here? So it has been repeated several times that it has been found that there have been reports of increases in the disease that may result in a causal relationship with the effects of the bombing, the effects of the use of poored uranium. It's been said that they were particularly dangerous transformers, their shooting at them because of all those pirates coming out of them, shooting at the refinery. We in Baric had to release a certain amount of toxic material, as it threatened the risk that if the Baric were hit, there was not half of Belgrade. Even some sources say that Vinci was also a potential target. There was an evacuation plan for Vince to move out in 1999. God forbid it happened. Already in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 the raw incidence rate and mortality of malignant tumours of all localities and of both sexes increased compared to the previous four-year period and this increase in the number of patients by 6.6% and the increase in deaths by 7.8%. That's all the data that's official, which can be easily checked. In conclusion, what are we supposed to do, maybe it's some kind of conversation of all these debates so far, what should we do to the commission? First of all, take up the national programme to monitor health conditions and define the degree of impact of ammunition with impoverished uranium on the health of soldiers, police officers, and even wider layers of the population; obtain adequate equipment of the latest generation, which any such work is not good; provide equipment to monitor the condition of the priority and adequate treatment of those who are affected by expected diseases. to engage and strengthen existing laboratory capacities for this. To show interest in the health situation and protection of the population living in KIM, that is the area of the Republic of Serbia, and that has been well established by previous speakers, that we should not remain passive just because it is not a space that is not currently under effective control by our government. Of course, see who needs to be sued when it comes to an international factor. Ask a question of damages. Asking our friends in Washington – what prevents the United States from morally rising and admitting that they have waged and waged an anti-law war, a war against international law and thus gain credibility for calling on Serbia to leave the past and to build a new future with the Americans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35928	Thank you. The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35929	The Honorable Chairman, indeed both as a man and as a father and as a son, suffered everything that was bad and we remember those days when it was bombing. Now after 19 years, our first President Vukic, who publicly said and asked to check for damages since the bombings we had in 1999. Otherwise, they bombed both passive areas and large cities and all the participants in the war, and one of them was my father who was also in Kosovo, and was wherever he should be as a member of the police. A large number of these people had problems afterwards and after 10 and 12 years, after 13 years, after 15 years, they had problems with tumors, with malignancies. One of these was my father who received a tumor in 2010 and was treated, he was cured, but it was all due to war and bombing under the auspices of the NATO Pact, called "a merciful angel". I really can't figure out how to deal with people like that, with a country that's always been with everything that's been good. Otherwise, a large number of members of the police force and the police station from Srlig who were on the defender of the homeland, who were in Kosovo and were everywhere they were supposed to be, is close to 50% of those people, and I know they certainly have problems with malignancy, it has already seen a number of these people and died. So there really is a consequence. I would like to thank President Vukic, who spoke publicly about this, and I would also like to thank President Maja Gojkovic, who started and asked to talk here about the point of forming a commission. Once again, I call on all people to have the understanding of what is to be said in 2000 and 2001 and 2002 and 2005 until today, no one has spoken of it like this, nor has an official as president of Serbia, Mr. Vukic. I think we really need to know and all the commissions will do their job because our colleague Dr. Laketic is a man who's from Prokuplje, a man who's been in the field who knows there's a large number of people from Prokupje, from the south of Serbia were war participants and they had problems and the Cup was bombed both by Alexinac and Nis, they shot both the clinical centres and the homes of health and they threw schools at them, so let's keep it on the honor. Now let them talk about how they want to help our country Serbia. Don't ever help her like this again. Once again, I thank you, and I ask as normally as all Serbs that our country Serbia has the opportunity to have damage, but that we are all working on it and that never happens again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35930	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Zoran Radojcic. He's not here. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35931	I thank the chairman. It is a great responsibility, and it is a great honor to speak today in the National Assembly on this subject. I especially care that, as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, I will likely be part of this commission's working team and we will, of course, aim to determine the consequences of NATO bombing, both on human health and on the environment that surrounds us. Once again, I would like to point out that the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999 was one illegal and one illegal act that was committed against international law without a Security Council decision and, of course, without a declaration of war. What's very significant is that in the same way as the weapons that were then banned and as we've heard many times today, it was ammunition with the impoverished uranium that would, of course, be one of the main themes of this commission's work and the consequences of using this kind of ammunition. In addition, 78 industrial and 45 energy plants were bombed in this illegal action, among the industrial ones, it is very important that the chemical and petrochemical industries were targeted and that, of course, led to the spill of tons of carcinogenic and toxic chemicals into our environment and, of course, it should be mentioned once again that about 15 tonnes of poor uranium were dumped primarily on the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia. The consequences are definitely seen and they exist and that's what we can't hide and we can't, we don't want to close our eyes to that and we have an obligation and a duty both to our people and to our children and to their future to present to the world public that truth and to prevent the consequences that can be in the future. My fellow doctors will definitely talk about how there is an apparent increase in malignancies and how this can be associated with larger radiological radiations and greater involvement of chemical compounds, so it will definitely be the subject of a serious scientific research into the work of this commission. What I am still trying to say is that I, as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, will specifically refer to the impact of all these radiations and chemical compounds particularly on the environment, i.e. natural resources, on the quality of water, air and land, which, of course, can again be brought directly into connection with the health of our citizens. So uranium is a metal that is free in nature, and it is a metal that does not have some big radio activity in that way, but in a way that was used during the 1999 bombing, unfortunately it had and that is what should be proven and should be seen what consequences it could leave. In the impact of poored uranium on solid material, high temperatures occur and combustion, of course, then spray particles that can be accumulated in the lungs, in the human organism, and can be carcinogenic for some time when inhaled. So uranium was used during the bombing, and unfortunately, it was also used in dirty uranium which, in addition to liberating its carcinogenic particles, also has isotopes of thorium, radium, radon, polynium and does not need to talk about how dangerous and radio active particles are. What I'd like to say is that experience has shown in our country that everything NATO claimed to be using this weapon was not true, and that was the claim that uranium dust was only held in a small radius where it appeared to be between a few dozen and a hundred meters, which proved not to be true and that the contamination and spread of uranium dust even spread to our neighbouring countries, so as we heard measured eight to twenty times the radio activity in both Bulgaria and Greece. Then, they claimed that the dust was very short in the air. There's also scientific research to do that that's not the case and that dust has been held back for up to two years. They claimed that unexploded penatrators were oxidized and distributed to dangerous salts only after 500 years. Our Vicna researchers have discovered already oxidized penatrators that have started the decomposition and, of course, it is necessary to determine whether they have done damage to our land. Since we have not received the truth, we ourselves must establish it, because Serbia has suffered an ecological disaster but we do not want to be permanently marked as a radiologically chemically polluted country or as an airy people, because we want to take that burden off ourselves. We want to be able to export normally, so that our food is not subsequently controlled, because our country is far better in condition than most of the land, water and air in the region, and that is what we want to prove both by professional and scientific research, that is to isolate places that are contaminated, to work on their decontamination and to put them under permanent monitoring. That's what this commission's goal is and it's going to be the goal of both our professional and scientific research, to preserve our natural resources, especially high quality of air, land and water, because these are our great potentials. As we have heard, our initial documents with which this commission will begin are the Report of the Italian Parliament Commission, which unfortunately suffered great pressures. I suppose this commission will suffer, too, but I'm sure there will be truth and concrete and accurate conclusions and facts. They concluded that there is a link between military engagement, i.e. soldiers in Kosovo in peacekeeping missions and their major illness, and that uranium dust is a direct cause of malignant diseases, degenerative changes and blood disease, which means that it is cytotoxic, genotoxic and carcinogenic. This methodology of work, conclusions and reports of this commission will be used both as the basis of work and as our commission. So the results, what is expected of our work, are the truth about the actual state of affairs, then the records of the damage to the environment and the health of people who will be presented to the world's professional public and competent international organisations. Then, very important, the removal of the consequences and the cause that can cause damage in the future and, of course, the legal basis for triggering responsibility for the consequences. So the truth, determination, courage and great knowledge and expertise will be our weapon to work for the well-being of our people, for the good of our country and for the future of our children, because we must leave them first and foremost a healthy environment of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35932	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35933	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the People's Party says - better ever than never. Many years have passed, many people, many soldiers and professional ones and those who were in Kosovo and Metohija, meanwhile, died from the fact that the projectile with the impoverished uranium had been affected. But to me today, what particularly bothers here is to call on facts. Here, let me tell you one fact that I get the legitimacy to talk about this. I was the commander of a unit whose area fired 70% of all the uranium-depleted missiles, and to tell you that since 2011 I've been operated 11 times, and in the first operation, I was told that it's a gift from friends with those with whom you would, you say, you need to find a common language. Secondly, gentlemen, it is said here that the fact is what the Americans gave us, gentlemen, that this Parliament can never accept that it is a fact if they said they fired 30,000 missiles. Let me tell you something else, the speed of firing that cannon is so high that those 30,000 missiles would fire in 462 seconds. Do you think, gentlemen, in seventy and a few days, because these planes and these cannons didn't work all these days, that we were only being shot for 400 seconds? Our data, or should I say the data of our army, those data of our army gentlemen have also been dropped. In certain days in my zone, so, during the day and night it was shot, 20 or 30 times those planes were targeting individual targets and then saying it was only 113 locations. It's an absolute failure. Now, someone can say I'm guilty too, because I was supposed to be delivering that information to my superior command. I have a map where we recorded the time and about the number of missiles. But, you know, gentlemen, what it means when my elders get the assignment that when they hear the fact of that cannon in seconds of measure, it's also a flat-rate number of 21, 22, 23, well, it says -- it's actually three seconds, so times 65, it's so many grenades. You're finding out for yourself that it's a cobweb, and we've had a lot of other obligations, combat actions. These planes were operating continuously at night. So to say that it is 113 locations or 113 times facts, no one can confirm it and no one will stand behind it, because 95% of the facts were in Kosovo and Metohija, and 85% of the facts were in the border belt from Prizren, Djakovica to Peći. The hardest shot is the Prizren and Đakovice district. After the war, I got a NATO map and I wanted to see if they were actually on that map, if it's true. I only took those cases where I personally watched the fact of the plane. That could be in five, six cases. In two cases, these districts weren't listed on their map, and I wrote it off years ago as some kind of credible object, and their map didn't say anything about how many missiles they were working with and what day they were working on that facility. This commission has a very serious task. In addition, the report has to do something that our health ministry, VMA, didn't do when it was meant to. After the war, you know that soldiers have been fired and have gone home. After a while, someone remembered all the elders who were in Kosovo and Metohija had to come to VMA, but then the VMA said they didn't have adequate equipment. Just like we didn't have equipment in 1999 that could measure this type of radioactivity, we only now have that equipment, because when it comes to poored uranium it measures in microheats, centigrates or heat. One device that existed in the brigade, and that man, so my Abejac will probably be in the commission, because it was proposed. He was never able to measure anything when he went to the scene, but we saw that where he was working on combat techniques, where the planes actually worked, some people died after six months. They simply melted, they disappeared, but then we were told that after 10 years, that true epidemic of disease would happen. Secondly, when we mention Italians and Germans, why did they get the most injured? Because the Germans came to Prizren, and the Italians came to Djakovica and Peći. To say that they weren't informed was an absolute mistake because they had manuals with them. They were forbidden to take anything from the territory. What kind of drinking water? The water from the territory could only be used to wash combat techniques. They were forbidden to go to catering facilities, to use food, fruit, vegetables. So anything from the territory. Besides, they've experienced what they've experienced. The only thing that's possible is that they were undisciplined and they were not following orders from their command, and there, they know it, Lazanski, when it comes to a NATO-led pact that's under contract there, when they take off their helmet and if something happens to him or if he takes off his vest, even if it's 50 degrees outside, he can't pay for it right now, if anything happens to him. As a result, they also obeyed all the measures that they were then set and ordered to do. Our army, gentlemen, was warned, to say, a few months before the war, what kind of ammunition they used, and we got eventually the information that we met the military with, but it didn't mean anything because when that fact started, if that missile enters the country, it's not a problem right now. It becomes a problem only later, but that missile that hits some solid object, whether it's an armor, whether it's a vehicle or it's a stone, it's the current problem because between a shirt and that core of poor uranium, one part has already oxidized and it makes that dust. In Kosovo and Metohija today, the biggest problem is the missiles that have entered the country and have reached a water-inflicted layer. Even if you put that missile on an oran and came to see if it was in that place for a year, it had already sank into the ground and it was sinking itself because of its great specific weight, all the way to the water-insulphurous layer, to the clay, and the missiles were rapidly oxidizing. The previous speaker mentioned something about 500 years. He's oxidizing, but he's still equally dangerous for the next 4.5 billion years. Gentlemen, in order for you to know what is the scale of the crimes, if we look at our past, from Christ to us on this globe has lived for about 80 generations, and for the radioactivity of the impoverished uranium that has been targeted by Kosovo and Serbia to be reduced only by half on this globe and in this Serbia should live 187 million generations. In every generation, only one to die, you see what is the scale of crime. Therefore, I say, this commission must, on the one hand, yes, it is here a political cap and will be attended by the MPs, but the profession and science must speak their word. It is good that we can use some other methodologies, because the Italians have opened, after all, that question, but we need to get through our health institutions some data on people who were in Kosovo and Metohija, because the leukemia disease and the cancer of these soldiers, these elders are certainly far greater than in other parts of Serbia, where people have also not been protected. If neighbouring countries have been polluted by those clouds that came from Kosovo and Metohija, you can imagine it was in Serbia's territory. It's so small particles, it's the micron particles and they stay in the air, the winds, the movement of the air carries them to huge surfaces and say that something when it's done, and even when it hits a solid object, that it's there, some 50 or 100 meters, is absolutely wrong. I think this information that the Americans delivered to us at the very least should be compromised. Because I'm telling you again, if we were to translate it into minutes, then they were tossing at us with the dried uranium just 7.7 minutes, by the number of those missiles they're saying they fired on our territory. And that, gentlemen, is certainly, many, many, ten times as many. I once observed the attack of 16 A10 planes on one of my columns. On that occasion, two tanks were destroyed, one threshold and one vehicle, the rest we were able to remove. That cannon is the basic fact of A10. It's a dangerous plane, it carries other cargo, rockets, guided, unleaded or bombed and 7.5 tonnes, but its top is also a basic tool, according to reports in Kosovo and Metohija, it has another type of ammunition, but in Kosovo and Metohija it used only that ammunition and those grenades with a core or a team, as you say, a penetrator of poor uranium. So we can't rely much on the Army's estimates, because the Army has this map, NATO has also given us that map, but if most of the facts were in the Metohija space, and in Metohija I was the 125th Brigade, gentlemen, we didn't have time to track and mark every fact. We only recorded as much as we could, because those facts were day and night. Even today, gentlemen, we don't have adequate measuring equipment so that we can fully determine the traces of poor uranium. When I asked the code, let me say, adequate services, they said it was very expensive equipment and that it was planned to be obtained probably in the next two years. Today we have probably the equipment that we can find in people these clues, and the equipment that needs to be obtained costs about 15m euros. My view is that when it comes to these things, nothing is expensive and that perhaps we have given a hundred times 15m euros for much more irrelevant things in this country. What is particularly important - what is the ultimate goal? I believe and hope that this commission will work very professionally, even as far as MPs are concerned, that it will respect the profession and science, that, behold, it will consult various other experts in the world. But what is key, gentlemen, is what will we do when we make that report and provided that it is good, adequate? Because the report itself does nothing. The steps to be taken by this country, especially when it comes to some satisfaction or recognition that never comes from the leading country of the terrorist inspirations everywhere in the world, from America, means they'll probably never come. But at least it has to come, even if it's a failure, a lawsuit. But starting a lawsuit won't be enough just for a report like that. The report will have to be something concrete. There must also be concrete people, so it doesn't matter whether there are a thousand or 15 thousand, but these researches must nevertheless be based on the fates and documents of the concrete people, either those who have disappeared, and behind which the documentation remains, either those who still have these consequences today or those who, unfortunately, may even at the time of this commission's work suffer from the fact of the poor uranium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35934	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35935	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I'm sorry that the authorized promoter is not here. I just want to affirm what the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group has said again, giving unreserved support to this commission's proposal, but there's something else I have to point out. What's good? It is good that regardless of the many insults, regardless of the many untruths, regardless of all that is politicized, in today's discussions, a unique attitude is taken. The Commission is necessary. That attitude is very significant. However, I would like to draw attention to something else that today in discussions simply seems to have missed or not focused on a very important fact. Dear fellow MPs, we are all witnesses in 2000, which is the year after the bombing, and the result of the bombing. The commission's task is to determine the consequences of the bombing, with particular focus on the facts of the poor uranium. But, esteemed colleagues, what are we going to do with an even more serious consequence of the mass of damaged persons, or those who have suffered severe consequences, which is post-traumatic syndrome? These are mental sufferings, these are mental disorders that have arisen as a consequence of the entire population, throughout the population of the Republic of Serbia, even beyond. Is it necessary to say, there are neuropsychiatrists here who will surely confirm this fact, noting the fact that sirens that warn of the threat of bombing have caused certain consequences? I'm sure they are. Afterwards, were stress situations, depression, and more severe forms of depression, psychosis, and more severe forms of psychosis and all other diseases that could be subjected to the nature of the disease? No one here is immune to one such phenomenon, no one is immune to mental health, and especially not in that way. So I ask that, when an expert group or an expert group is formed, neuropsychiatricists are required to be represented, those who will be able to assess the consequences of the mental health of our population remain after the bombing and who feel both today and not of whom we, who are sitting here, and a large number of citizens, are difficult to free and difficult to manage, unfortunately, because the big sign of the question is whether the behaviour of citizens is as stressful behaviour, and unfortunately the stress is the generator of all possible diseases, is it present today, sure that it is. So it seems to me that the focus on the poored uranium should exist, but even more importantly, there is an observation that literally refers to all the consequences of the bombing. Even if the poor uranium is not present, even if there are no other substances that are and how dangerous to the health, what about the mental health of the population? What about all the things that happened after that when they're under posttraumatic syndrome, they're doing a number of behaviors that have the character of illegal behavior? Did people do so in a calculated state or under the consequences of the consequences of such misdemeanors? The Commission must have a political foothold, wanted to, didn't want to. If for nothing else, then because of the hypocritical name of the campaign, as those who did it call it, and essentially, criminal aggression is a "merciful angel". What is the degree of hypocrisy, and where is the mercy of so many killed, so many victims? In the end, I want to point out something else, and what many of my colleagues have pointed to here. The consequences of this commission's findings are multiple. One of them is the uncontested determination of the facts of this period of crime and the inhumane treatment of the population in the areas under bombings and Albanians, and Serbs, and all others who have suffered such crimes. Just figuring out the fact that my colleagues pointed out without criminal and legal consequences can't go through in any way. In particular, there is a criminal responsibility of a more dimensional nature, as an individual, indisputable. For individual criminal liability, criminal acts are foreseen. According to our Criminal Code, one of these crimes is a crime against humanity. There's also a crime of war. Individual criminal responsibility also implies the responsibility of those who have given the order to use illicit means as weapons and tools in war conflicts or war acts, and here it is aggression. Also, individual criminal responsibility implies the responsibility of an individual person, therefore, of an individual who could have prevented the operation of an illicit weapon or a weapon, which did not do so. And it's not an act of crime. I don't think it's possible to commit a crime. I don't have hope, nor am I under illusions, that someone will be held accountable for this, that a collective lawsuit will be filed, but in any case, the Commission's report will serve in a criminal and legal sense as a foothold when an adequate procedure is initiated, because the crime of war crimes, the crime against humanity doesn't go out of date, and we lawyers know it. Therefore, full support to the Commission, full support to all those who will co-operate with the Commission, determine the facts, and it is up to us, dear colleagues, as well as to our friends in the executive power, to make an adequate decision after the commission has determined everything necessary to determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35936	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Next on the list is Mr. Gjorge Vukadinovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Lazanski answered. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Miroslav Lazanski: I don't even know how to cite this.) I'd just like to point out... Just sign in, please, to turn on your microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35937	I don't know what formula it would be...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35938	You have to say member.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35939	Article 104. I appeal, when this is about the 1999 bombing, my colleague, that we do not use the term "merciful angel". The operation is called a “joint force. ” However, we are the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that we will not be called abroad if we do not know the name of the operation after so many years. So we have to be precise. "Common force", not "merciful angel". I don’t know who first invented the term “merciful angel. ” He's gotten a little bit old in our media, and now everybody's getting that name, and he's not like that. All that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35940	Thank you, Comrade Lazanski. Do you want the National Assembly to declare that the Rules of Procedure's injury in the day of the vote? No, I don't. On what basis, Mr. Jovanovic? (Nedjo Jovanovic: Misreading, Article 104) Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35941	I thank you, Chairman. Obviously, there's been a misreading of something I said. The term "merciful angel" is a detached term.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35942	I need a member to give me a heads-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35943	Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35944	A moment ago, Mr. Lazanski said Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35945	Chairman, there's talk of injury, not a member. Speaking of violations of the Rules of Procedure, we point to an injury, not a member, and I have to say what's important for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35946	You're giving me a provision from what defines... (Nedjo Jovanovic: Article 27, that we do not argue. I don't argue at all, I just want to respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35947	Thank you. To remove people from doubt whether or not the term "merciful angel" is a deficient term through the media, through propaganda, through the press, through electronic media has been used, manipulated countless times. I thank you for giving you the right time, which is correct, but this term was used by those who did. This term was used by those who committed crimes. This term was used by those who killed and that's why I said it was hypocrisy. If you are conducting a campaign called "merciful angel", and you are under the mercy of crimes, then it is the greatest degree of hypocrisis that exists in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35948	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has been delivered by the People's MP Miroslav Lazanski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35949	As you wish, injuring the Rules of Procedure, anything at all, so we don't go into a Semantic debate. No official NATO document speaks of a "merciful angel". Thus, all their official documents say “joint force. ” That's why I urge my colleagues here to use what's official. It's that it's gotten a little bit out of hand in our media, it's possible that in some foreign media, it's a hypocrisis, it's immoral and hypocritical to call it that, but let's still do the exact terminology when we're discussing this aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35950	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35951	So, next time. Someone's gonna be bored and less interesting at the debate we're having today, and I think we'd better have these discussions more often than we usually do. What I'm about to say is, it's practically related to what the general said and what I was saying this afternoon and what General Delic and fellow Lazanski, Neđa and many other colleagues were saying, on the one hand and on the other side of this imaginary political border. So, bombing, NATO intervention, NATO aggression was both illegal and illegal, there is no doubt about it as far as I'm concerned, and I don't think there's any doubt from the point of view of many and at a time when this aggression was carried out by many relevant actors of political intellectual, worldly, who were very loud in condemning this bombing. And I think the public opinion, the global public opinion raised against NATO intervention in Serbia, was very respectable. I don't think it's used enough in our public for a variety of reasons, and it's as if we ourselves at some point, or that Serbia's syndrome has overcome both identification and aggressor syndrome and that almost, not quite, we've been ashamed, but in any case as if we haven't called ourselves enough, we've highlighted numerous examples of intellectual, political, media life, prominent personalities, from the Nobels to the leaders, global leaders, I don't know Noam Chomsky and others, not to mention, not to mention, that I'm not counting, who deliberately and vigorously condemned this bombing even though they had no reason, or interest. We have issued in the New Serbian Political Mission a chamber of several hundred pages where we have collected these texts and criticisms of NATO intervention. So, I mean, it's not just my private court, now we're Serbs, so we're biased, etc. People who have nothing to do with us and Serbia and the region have actually condemned even as scandalous, even in harsh words condemned the intervention. So that's one pair of sleeves. The second, direct cause, the consequences of this bombing are certain, doubtless these mental ones, as well as these physical direct health issues regarding this epidemic or the increase in the number of malignancies many have observed. Either way, we in that commission, that's what we're talking about now, so we can compete here with the stronger words to criticise and there will be no mistake talking about this NATO aggression, but we now need to see that we contribute as much as anyone can to the successful work of this commission. No matter what I say about what we share and what we disagree on, it is very important, I repeat, although there is no colleague, I repeat and appeal to him, or to those who form the composition of this committee, to make it mandatory to pay attention to the presence of representatives and the positions and opposition from this Parliament. Whether from all or at least from most MPs' groups, as I also more appeal, I insist that the personalities of the experts who pleaded for and against the existence of severe consequences of the bombing of the poor uranium. It is terribly important, for the sake of credibility, for the sake of the assurance of the work of the Commission to participate in it and its work, and for those who think they have some arguments to challenge what is here today's majority opinion. I believe that these other arguments will prevail and based on the authority of the people who wrote about it, but I say we should pay full attention to all those and the people and their views, scientists who are trying to defend the opposite thesis. That is why I would like to see Mr. Zoran Radovanović, Snezana Zivković Perišić, besides the mentioned Cikaric, Danica Grujičić, Mirjana Angelkovic, etc., because there are data, when we look at this data "Batuta", there are reasons for and against it. So there is a growth of malignant diseases in Serbia, but there is also a very large growth in 1990-1999, too, doubled the number of malignancies. Of course, from 1999 to 2009, this increase is even bigger, and since 2009 it has also been here. So, there is an epidemic, but there are also some data that say that the increase, as far as the rates of the patients are concerned, the percentage of those who are sick in Serbia, is not much higher than some European average, and that it is higher than the death rate. Either way, we need to examine carefully, scrupulously. There is no doubt about the commission's work, but in some ways the people, the citizens prejudged the outcome of this commission's work, because when you look at all the research, whoever is doing it, whoever is doing it, all public opinion research shows that support for Serbia's NATO membership is miserable and moves somewhere between 5, 6, 7 % at the most 10%. I want to say that Serbia's public opinion has in some way given its opinion, but of course, this commission, through its hard work and competent membership, needs that result to be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35952	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35953	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When at the last session of this house, Parliament Speaker Mrs Gojkovic started the story that at one of the next calls would be this part of the agenda, I was extremely happy. Extremely happy as a man who, from the moment this bestial bombing that members of the notorious alliance carried out over Serbia's territory happened, waited until today for that moment. As I was happy then, when I got the list of speakers, I was a little sad and disappointed. Is it possible that on the list of MPs of the Republic of Serbia there is someone besides whom there will be no name for? I accept that for political reasons, someone may have to write that it is undefined, I mean the representatives of the majority coalition, but I cannot possibly accept the numerous presentations of some colleagues who are not here right now, who have spoken today. For me personally, no government of the Republic of Serbia in any period can be blamed for being bombed. The NATO Pact and those who have bombed Serbia can never be my friends. This is my personal position, and that's why my statements are always against the NATO Pact. That's why it's a point I won't agree with when no kind of co-operation with the NATO Pact is being implemented, but I'll always say that the leadership, although it was both the SPS and the radical party, was not wrong to bomb. As I heard these statements that hurt me humanly, I heard very much about me personally, the significant exposure of Mr. Lazanski or Mr. Delic, the general who explained on the expert side that these were "our friends" agreeing their bullets with the poored uranium and Mr. Delic, who explained what was happening then at the site of action. At least everyone in this congregation needs to ask now who of us has a greater right to the exclusion of this topic. Serbian Movement Dvori published the thematic journal in 2009, titled "NATO genocide over the Serbian people". For some reason, no one on the other side wants to see it or wants to accept it. Very often you mentioned a large NATO lobbyist, someone who "handled" Serbia's Dvora movement, Professor Jasmine Vujic. Seven years ago, she published a series of articles and launched an investigation into this problem that we are talking about today, and I am not aware and appreciated colleague Laketic is present at the moment, because what he was saying and presented in his opening statement, is the same source used, but it is from words to words from what Professor Jasmina Vujic then published. Now that we need something, we're gonna need it, and when we don't need the most important physicist, the nuclear physicist, who this country has brought out, and what's the case in America, that doesn't suit us. But it doesn't matter, it's our Serbian business, not that we don't need them in mind, but that they must be completely irrelevant to us and that we never mention them anywhere. What is a fact, after the NATO Pact's operation, we want to admit it or not, and we need to be aware that in Serbia we have a strong structure of the NATO Pact lobbyists, those who will jump at this point, to explain that we have now invented something, and I personally, and I am telling you that the Serbian Dvori movement is not an indignity. We may not like the moment that it is now, we can ask - what you haven't done before, it's our right, but we don't judge what you've done right now. Those who aren't here in the O.R., and who were telling stories, and I'm talking about a yellow company in bankruptcy, which I can't possibly hear and accept, they had their chance, they were in power, so they didn't do anything, and today they respect you. Ugly, hypocritical, embarrassing. I'll always say it in public. But let's not argue about whether we should have done it sooner or now. Let's do it in a way that our future generations don't be ashamed of. We can agree or disagree, but it is evident that, for example, over a period of 10 years, after NATO bombing, there has been an extraordinary increase in malignancy of the type of leukaemia and lymphoma. Let's look around. Our people, old people who have never been sick, have not used unhealthy lifestyles, have today been suffering from the most minor diseases. Whether and how to link it to the devastating fact of the poored uranium in NATO missiles that have unsaved us, it is a difficult task and a major test that the commission will have to respond to. It is the excellent starting point of the Italian Parliament's report, which, when delivered, respected counterpart Laketic, attended the meeting and attended the Committee on Health and Family of the Republic of Serbia, and on that Committee I voted for him to go away, aware of the facts, as a representative of the opposition, that sometimes a topic must be raised by a question that any real and real Serb of this country is in pain. That's why we can't share this thing. This is neither the place nor the time, no matter how much I disagree with you in a thousand things, this is the thing that I agree with you about, and I want to do about the thing that we agree to do together. Let's do something, I repeat, that won't be ashamed of the generations. It is well known that the fact of such weapons and the poored uranium acts on reproductive capacity. How many marriages do we have today without children than we did 20 years ago? And that's the subject I need to talk to you about. How many autistic children do we have today, and that they were born after NATO bomb operations, and we didn't have them? So, one multidisciplinary approach for people in the profession, absolutely must be present, and we who may or may not be in that commission, and we are in this Parliament, we must understand that we are working on the well-being of all Serbia, and that when we are done, and the two-year deadline and the reporting dynamics of six months are not bad, and I think that this is the right thing, we need to know what we're going to do with this report, which I am convinced is going to find the cause, consequences and connection to the fact of the NATO Alliance, what are we going to do with this report further? Will we then understand who our friend is, and who our enemy is, will be the subject of some conversation then, not now. Now let's get serious, let's not take out an ugly picture and let's get about some things that all of Serbia's hearts are unique about not sharing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35954	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Vladimir Orlic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35955	Thank you. It'll be short. So two comments, or two comments on my part. First of all, I didn't understand the disappointment of looking at the list. I'm looking at the list and I don't see any of the MPs pleading against the proposal to form this committee. That's not what I understand about the list. As for the presentations of certain, which are not in the O.R. now, it's all perfectly fine. We're also amazed by their presentations, but not just theirs. As for the lady who is a member of the political council or the party's presidency, or whatever it is, I do, as far as I can remember, and anyone can correct me if I'm wrong, she has not received a single word of criticism from us because of some texts on the subject of poor uranium, but there have been mentioning the fact that she works for NATO structure, or the structure of the defence ministry of a certain state. Whether it bothers those to whom he is or doesn't mind, that's primarily a question for them. But there's one thing I'd like to agree with about asking you, Mr. Vesovic. So this is definitely the topic that we need to be complicated about, to understand each other and to be perfectly correct. With that in mind, if you really think so, do you feel any discomfort over Mr. Obradovic's embarrassing exposure today?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35956	Dr Dragan Vesovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35957	So, the esteemed colleague Orlic, when I was explaining about the list, missed how I explained it, but that's not so controversial. I just said, as for Mrs. Jasmine Vujic, she didn't say it either, I didn't say it, but now I'm telling you, she's not a member of the presidency, she was a member of the political council of the Serbian Movement of Dvera, but how am I going to trust you now that as a man of political experience, you think she works for NATO, and she writes against NATO? If NATO allows it, and she has that skill, I congratulate her on it. So much for that. As far as other matters are concerned, Mr. Obradovic will surely answer. His exposure is not shameful, he is only those things where we disagree, which talk about some kind of co-operation that you, I may see you have to, perhaps colleague Obradovic thinks you don't, have with the high representatives of the Alliance's forces that bombed us at the time. That's his opinion. My opinion is also that it is not normal and you will have a secure situation that whenever we talk about the NATO Pact, the Serbian Dvori Movement will be harsh against it. Do you, as the largest political factor of the Republic of Serbia, have to have with them relationships of meaning, conversation, meetings, that's probably yes. We will never support such relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35958	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35959	Thank you for wanting to answer the question. I just have to tell you, I'm not happy. So I didn't ask Mr. Obradovic anything. We heard him very well. I asked you, Mr. Vesovicu - where did you mention that she was a member of the presidency or political council, working? Can you explain it to us? I'm saying she didn't write anything against the NATO Pact, so not only those things that NATO itself admitted after and published, that this poor uranium is harmful, so that's what NATO itself admitted. So she didn't find anything new. I didn't notice anything about her writing against the pact itself, but where exactly she worked and under whose jurisdictions in the United States you'll already explain to me. I'm curious as to how you, as a man who, today you say, think we should be complicit about this, are experiencing a shameful attack by Bosko Obradovic directed towards SNS and Alexander Vukic on today's topic? So, is that human, is that knightish, is that moral? That's what I want to know. And then we can talk about other things, and I'm also going to ask you, do you, for example, also think, as he believes and said several times, that your views as political structures, as an organization, are identical to that of Sasa Radulovic in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, in terms of NATO intervention, and how does he claim, justification and intervention towards our people? But let's do one thing at a time. First of all, how do you experience the shameful political performance of Bosko Obradovic on this subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35960	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since fellow Orlic has asked a huge number of questions, I suggest, my colleague, that we sit on a television show to discuss it. It would take us a long time. As for Mrs. Jasmine Vujic, where she works, it's the first woman Serbian in the history of the United States to be the dean of a university, in this case, Berkeley. Is that something someone in Serbia should be ashamed of? Do you have information that she works for some foreign intelligence service? If you have them, please show them to me in public. These stories and now we're going to make sure that the chicken or egg, who first insulted who, am I supposed to talk about the painting of Vojislav Seselj, Aleksandr Vukic, is on the stand of "New Iscre" and behind them painting Dimitri LJotic and bringing that painting to you next time? Please, at the fair yes. It's such a funny story that I can tell this home in public and I love what I'm talking about in public and let the whole audience see, personally, I'm not the kind of man who's going to use those terms in politics. I'll never tell anyone he's an angry man without knowing anything about it. I'll never tell anyone that he's a member of the S Corps without knowing anything about that man. I will never insult any of you because none of you are my enemy. You're my political insolents and I don't want to think the same thing with you, but how do I convince you, I have no reason to hate any of you. Now I'm saying this as a man, and people who have long known me can either confirm it or deny it, I don't hate anyone in my life. I can agree with someone, but on your side, he says - you hate someone, you're it. I'll never do that. I won't insult anyone. All the questions you've asked me, I'm willing to answer you publicly, but there are a lot of them, let's sit down either privately or on a television show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35962	Thank you, colleague Vsović. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35963	I welcome your willingness, sir, to answer me publicly. Why don't you demonstrate it now? Two minutes and you said something and you could use them to answer me publicly, just like you just said publicly, and those answers you're now offering on some TV show to offer here. There's no need to delay anything. Are you ashamed of Bosko Obradovic's shameful conduct? That was a direct question. We can get him first and then we can move on to the second and the third. As for some booth at the Book Fair, I really don't have statistics that all booths are present at the Book Fair, but let me tell you, going through some booth, as far as I know, is no sin and no big deal. I passed the stand of the Serbian Movement Dvora both times when he was present on the territory of the municipality where I live. So, for all these years, I've seen them on the street twice, and I've walked both times in front, just to see how they're doing. I'll tell you what it looked like and what it looked like. Anyway, on the subject of calling someone advocate of the idea of Dimitri Ljotic. Mr. Vesovicu, if you think it's an insult, I think you should first and foremost talk to the man who wrote the following words. Now listen well, I read them, I don't make them up, I read them: "No chance should be missed to witness the new state of political awareness in the people and that it is necessary to supplement the political principles and guidelines of "The Assembly" and Dimitri Ljotic. Therefore, the need for something to be complemented by the principles and guidelines of the Parliament and Dimitri Ljotic, as some positive things. You know who wrote that? That's what Bosko Obradovic wrote. So, I'm not making anything up, I'm not saying it's some interpretation and I'm saying, on this basis I can only conclude – Bosko Obradović is a ljotician. If that's an insult, I think Mr. Bosko Obradovic has a problem with himself first. He wrote this and signed it with his own hand. What do you think of that shameful behavior? I think this is a great opportunity for you to explain it to me in two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35964	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. Twenty times he mentioned my name and name. Yes, yes, I agree. You must decide who will, Dr Dragan Vesovic or you. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35965	Mr. Chairman, I am the authorised president of the Serbian Movement Group of MPs and, please, when I ask for a word – that I do, because that applies to all the heads of Parliament here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35966	You got it. You're entitled to a replica, you're mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35967	Great, I'm just distracting you that I've been looking a lot earlier. You can't let someone call me ten times in the replica and mention my name a hundred times without ever getting a word. So here's the thing very simple. Bosko Obradovic is not a professor of Serbian literature and language with general literature, who studied complete Serbian cultural and literary history between the two world wars and the legacy of the political organisation Zbor. I'm not ashamed of it, I'm a graduate. For this book, I received the Milos Crnjanski Award for the best essay book written in Serbian from 2003 to 2005. So, I'm an academic citizen, I'm a researcher of the past, it's my profession. Don't let someone who doesn't understand these things talk about it. The other thing is, we didn't insult or resent the SNS here because this topic came to the agenda, we praised and supported it, we're just talking about contradictions in your attitudes, because one day you take pictures with war criminals and you call them to your pre-election meetings, and the other day you determine a commission that determines their crimes. That's a little schizophrenic, you'll admit. Our proposal is an amendment type, and we cannot propose amendments to this decision, if we can, you tell us, and we will suggest that the political consequences of NATO bombing, the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija are added, and the moment in which you are today in Sofia talking to war criminal and terrorist Hashim Thaci about how to sign the right by binding an agreement with the fake state of Kosovo within the next six months. These are the dangerous political consequences of NATO bombing. The Commission should also take its position.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35968	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35969	I'm asking Mr. Vesovic to plead, he doesn't seem to be given the president to plead, but he's up to do it alone. Instead of answering questions, the minute he talked about something completely fifth. Let's get back to the first thing. Schizophrenic can be anything. For me, for example, it's schizophrenic to bring someone to the National Assembly of Men who doesn't hide that he supports HOS, the Croatian Defense Forces, the man who walks there in their gatherings, and then the one who brought this guy here is the story of Ratko Mladic. He is completely unaware, it seems, that General Mladic had a fight against the very Hos in Herzegovina. This is, for example, an example, an example of schizophrenia. The other thing, what anyone had for graduate work, be his private business, I'm not asking that at all. I ask nicely for the specific Latvian magazine "New Iskru", I ask for what a man with his own name and last name, as his own attitude, not mine or someone on the fifth one, but as his own attitude, said in that magazine, where he praised "The Assembly", where he praised Dimitri LJotic, where he praised his volunteers, so those people who were de facto, black on white, unequivocally, all of them know this, the history of the occupation in this country during World War II and involved in crimes against the civilian population, against our countrymen. So when someone propagates these things as their political views, it's perfectly legitimate to answer for it. It doesn't have to go far and deep, but to say it nicely briefly and clearly Serbian: "I am, I mean it, but I don't think anymore, I'm ashamed" or, "I am, I mean it still think so," and these other attempts of eviction to leave for another opportunity. This is where you talk, ladies and gentlemen, very specific. Mr. Vesovicu, you can start, and if you can't, the one you just did.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35970	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. ) I would ask that we now stop here, as you have suggested to Dr Vesovic, and that this debate may continue on some or TV show or on some panel or duel, but outside parliament, because this has no end really, it is debated about Ljotic. (Dragan Vesovic: Just so you know I'm ready to answer. ) Thank you very much for your understanding. I think there was enough opportunity and a replica to express an opinion and a political attitude. Now we'll give our colleagues the opportunity to cross Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35971	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, related to the previous controversy, how could someone write something and work differently and always have to be connected, yet it is presented as a professor of Serbian language, how can a professor of Serbian language write for Vuk Karadzic – through the depravation of the language and the breakup of the link with the medieval church heritage decorated in the wolfishness and outside the church on the godless nationality raise the walls of the pseudo-Serb building on the basis of supplies? A wolf, otherwise a great friend of Gete, a well-known German writer and a great friend of the Serbian people, so there is another reason, perhaps, one link, to build a friendship with Germany, in addition to great economic co-operation. Speaking of science, Nikola Tesla was inspired by the verses of Getea to tame the alternating current and the magnetic field. So when you insult the Wolf, then insult everyone in the entire chain. Let's get back to the subject. Regarding the brutal aggression against our country, Borko Aleksic, a prominent host from the village of Bustranje near Presevo, his village and neighbouring villages are the most brutally targeted bombs with impoverished uranium, says: "I am 83 years old, I remember every opportunity, but I do not remember that in peace in these villages the young world has died this much. There's no house from which in the last 15 years, the most severe disease has not taken anyone away. It does not choose – Serbs, Albanians, Roma, Macedonians, cuts in turn. They say it's all because of NATO bombs and some uranium." As he said so, he had his wife, Anka Aleksic, in front of him, and then he continued: "I follow what is said and wrote about these uranium bombs. Experts speak differently, but I do know one thing – my Anka was still old compared to the great youth that after the war cancer took away, mostly in the 40s, and here people were always longevity. It lived for 80, 90 years. There are 30 houses in our mahala Topojanci, and since the war, one young man has been buried from each one. Everyone died. The Bauk War was over us, entered every house. It can't be that it has nothing to do with these bombs." Vera Milosavljevic of Stražice describes one of the events and says: “There was a young couple with two children in the neighborhood. Their mother suffered from leukemia and died. Today we learned that another neighbor was on chemo. The hardest thing for us was when the neighbor's three-year-old son died when he was only three years old of leukemia, and he played daily in places where the gellers fell." We want this commission to determine whether this three-year-old boy was killed by the same bomb only after many years of killing and three-year-old Milica Rakic. We want the truth and we've won the right to the truth. One more thing, which is very important. Neither Vera Milosavljevic nor Borko Alexic are radiologists, oncologists, biochemists, or doctors of nuclear physics. But they said something science must react to. We provided it through this commission. We're just looking for the truth, and the Serbian people have helped the world so much to learn about electrical engineering, telephony, religion, sports, and they've only asked the world for centuries to learn the most basic thing about the Serbian people – that Serbs want freedom, justice and truth. And that they live for it. Thank you to Mr. Lazanski when he gave us an explanation regarding the name of aggression, that she was not a "merciful angel", and we were suspicious. For next year, the monastery of Milesheva celebrates eight centuries of existence. There's a white angel's fresco. We Serbs know very well what an angel looks like. And what was coming towards us didn't look like an angel in the first place. The angel doesn't have black wings. An angel can't kill. An angel can't be bought. The angel can't fall. And our White Angel doesn't need to be invisible. At a central state ceremony in Aleksinc, in connection with the NATO bombing anniversary, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said: "Serbia that they did not kill and will never kill is their biggest curse, and our mission and our future. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35972	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35973	I thank the chairman. An important topic, finally in the plenary of the Serbian Parliament, after nearly 20 years of what Lazanski said, a professional name -- a common force, without a Security Council decision, by one state, with catastrophic consequences. I also have an obligation to talk about this as someone who has survived the bombing in Peća, one of the three cities in Kosovo and Metohija marked as points with the largest amount of poored uranium thrown away. We have heard terrible data today, and I think that we have also been simply concerned and unfortunately reminded of what is behind us, but unfortunately, what we are suffering from today. It's almost 15 tons of poor uranium, and it's a huge disaster, but not the only one. It must also be said that NATO bombed chemical and oil plants, which are extremely dangerous, both in human health and in the full eco system. These facilities were located on gambling maps and represent objects that were not bombed in the event of a war, so as not to cause a major disaster. But whoever without a Security Council decision went to NATO's aggression in Yugoslavia did not even consider whether these facilities were protected in the sense that they did not even act in the war. And as a consequence of everything that's happened, I'm going to look at it from two angles. First of all, based on the facts that exist, which is that the Italian contingent that was placed after NATO aggression in Metohija had countless soldiers who had received even strong verdicts and this was already being discussed by the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic. They are precise instructions that they were not adequately equipped to withstand the consequences of the level of poored uranium that was dumped on that territory. The NATO Alliance knew, unequivocally, what the consequences were and what their aggression was. From this distance, I can almost claim and claim that all the powerful columns of the Albanian national minority in the southern Serbian province, which were going to leave their homes right after the bombing, were actually doing so on the orders of their Western mentors, because they knew what they needed to get away from. It may have been a promise that Serbs would be destroyed, thus impoverished uranium. On the contrary, we have been accused of persecuting the Albanian national minority. Then they were provided with the so-called. The state of Kosovo, they admitted, expelled 300,000 Serbs, and they continued to live there, and later I will also talk about statistics that speak unequivocally about what statistics today are about malignancies in the southern Serbian province's territory for 2017. What I have to look back on is, yes, and good cream has been given to me by my colleague Jovanovic, which is what the consequences are independent of the poored uranium, 78 days of constant air danger in Kosovo and Metohija, without a single siren on the end of the air hazard except for the day it is over. Trauma for leaving its centuries-old hearth for 300,000 Serbs. Trauma for the 100,000 who stayed and were left to the mercy and shame of being a terrorist to the KLA, which to their Western partners. As a result, unfortunately, in central Serbia, a huge number of people died with a wave of cancerous diseases. I don't dare speak of cancer as an economist, but I know that many friends, unfortunately, have passed away and that kind of cancer was either first or rare. I am pleased that the commission, and I firmly believe, will examine all the circumstances under which we have lived and all the consequences that we are suffering today. What is infinitely important is that today data say that in 2017, there is a rapid increase in mortality from malignant diseases both in Kosovo and Metohija. The most ill were registered on the territory of the municipality of Pristina, 354 registered patients in 2017. Prizren is ranked as the second municipality with the highest number of cancer patients, 151, oven with 141 cases. These are Albanian children and some of the few Serbs who stayed there. Still under the impression of a visit to Gorazdevec, who celebrated his village glory Monday, the Holy Jeremiah of the Prophet, and there are children, children who have been living and born for 20 years on the ground for which world scientists have found that 50 centimeters in depth has been contaminated with poor uranium. It is the balance of one, as you said, of the common forces, of what they knew to be called "the merciful angel", the peak of ruthlessness towards one nation, according to one state, not only to Serbian but also to the Albanian people, for which they did everything they did. So, we're not bombed because of Milosevic, nor because of the wrong SPS policy, we were just victims, and also a good terrain that after us on the wings of these untruths some come, rule and turn a blind eye to such a disastrous balance. Even today, when we should all just have "yes" on this subject, we use this topic for cheap politics. The Socialist Party of Serbia has always been above it and our representatives will be pleased to participate in the commission's work. We will be available in every sense of the word and always support such initiatives and proposals. Thank you, Chairman. It's obvious that this topic has become overloading or I'm simply not inspiring, but I can see the silence in the O.R. is losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35974	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an experiment conducted by the NATO Pact, was launched much earlier in 1999 on the territory and on the premises of Republika Srpska. Of course, it was a general test prior to the final attack on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and we have data and facts that suggest that by examining and investigating data on the premises of Republika Srpska, the consequences of the bombing are catastrophic when it comes to the increase in cancer patients. We have so much information that, for example, in Hadzica municipality, it is near Sarajevo, the parallel information is that before the bombing, 48 people were registered with cancer, and after the bombing, that number rose drastically to 383 people. And that's the relevant information, you can't manipulate him. When it comes to the attack on Serbia, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it was a general test for the possibility of an attack on the Russian Federation. The attack was carried out without any decision and without any knowledge of the UN, or Security Council. When the attack was carried out, unauthorized funds were used during the bombing, and these are the missiles that contained in themselves the poored uranium. Right after the attack, we witnessed quasi scientists showing up who explained to the general public in the SRJ at the time, that actually the bombing was essentially one humanitarian action. It aimed to protect the Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija and to bring to perfection the bombing done by the NATO Pact, that their missiles clearly recognized who the aggressors were and who they were. It's just that a man can't believe how long they've been going with their brains and putting out facts like that. Scientists. They didn't even hesitate to explain to the public that it doesn't matter that they're bombed refineries, that the bombed chemical industry with the correctness of the water we use, whether it affected the pollution of the Danube and our rivers. Imagine what kind of scientists they are, what kind of experts they are, and we are not talking about those who, even today, because Serbia is obviously beginning to share, conditionally, on this subject, so we have those who are fortunately, most of them in this Assembly, who are in order to examine all the circumstances, all the facts regarding the consequences of the bombing and those who represent the the thesis that is more famous for Scott. So, Serbia is now divided into those who are Scotts and those who are not. So there's a perfectly clear division. Those who are Scotts, they continue to claim that Serbia has suffered from cancer because it smokes too much, and those who do not, they continue to claim that it is and that the significant impact of all that the NATO Pact has carried out as part of the humanitarian action. We are witnesses that such a crime, in the recent history of mankind, has not been committed. We are even witnessing claims that the bombing of chemical plants and refineries is actually a humanitarian gesture to prevent the supply of fuel to the Slobodan Milosevic Army or the regime that was now in Serbia. So even after the war, some high-ranking US officers, for the shame of personal rating, published volumes of books that clearly show their remorse over all that was done by America, as the leading force of the NATO pact. In the end, what should be said if the fact that a chemical plant was bombed in Pančev, or the plant where vinyl chloride monomer is produced? This is the basic raw material for polyvinyl chloride from which plastics are produced. Vinyl chloride monomer is a danger in itself. So let me just explain to the public, those who work in this department for the production of vinyl chloride monomer, otherwise they have so-called. Beneficiary work experience due to working conditions. They work under full protective equipment, with masks working. To make it even clearer, they are one of those who, during their working hours, must necessarily use dairy products, such as yogurt, milk or other dairy products, because of the conditions in which they work, regardless of what the reactors are, regardless of the chemical process that is unprotected, those who work must be protected, and this drive is bombed by NATO bombers. And they're also creating how dangerous compounds, which, among other things, make hydrochloric acid, and we've heard that this hydrochloroid acid is not harmful at all, except that it bites every organic matter, for us Serbs, it's probably not harmful, we've become immune to it. Well, then we have an example where we're convinced that what was actually bombed in the Refinery, that burning oil was real sulfur and sulfuric compounds, which is actually sulphuric acid was in some way present, it doesn't matter. This should make Serbia realize that it was part of protecting the rights of the Albanian national minority. Just to believe those who are naive, and then the logical question is asked – what does Rafineri Panchevo and Novi Sad have to do with Kosovo and Metohija and with the Albanian national minority? What do bridges have to do with Danube bridges connecting geographical Serbia and Vojvodina? What does that have to do with Kosovo and Metohija? What does that have to do with the use of missiles to destroy the Iron Bridge, which has been a unique technical and architectural solution in the world for a long time? It's a project for you where the first time you've been using high-intense iron that's been cast concrete, and that's the overstretched concrete. It is the first time in the world that such technology is applied in the area of construction and architecture. Now you're witnesses, just to remind you, how guilty they are about that crime they did when they crashed bridges, especially the Jell-O Bridge. Every bridge that's been shot down, it's a big crime. So now they're building a new bridge and at all costs they want to keep calling it that the people accept that it's the Iron Bridge, because they know what crime they've committed. Their crime was reduced by the fact that because of the expert vanity of the late Iron, they did not accept this technological and technical solution, and they know it well. But, look, here's the question - what was taken over in the earlier period when this crime was committed and when it came to punishing those who ordered this crime? I'm just reminding you, the SRS was in power at the time, and immediately after the bombing, criminal charges were filed against Javier Solana, against Bill Clinton. After 2000, the applications were put out of force, explaining that they were the great friends of the Serb people. Even some have raced today to show how much more loyal they are to Bill Clinton than Monica Levinski. They're still fighting to become Monica Levinski. It's a waste of time. Hilary didn't win. We need to notify them. Javier Solana is the same man who himself admitted to inventing facts related to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija in order to export the bombing of the SRJ. It's a man who's been released of all responsibility. We in the SRS clearly show what facts should be used. We are not asking a commission to be formed at the Assembly level to be individual experts. It's a delusion. They must use the services of people who are professional. (President: Bringing the end. I'm just finishing one sentence. Here is where General Delic provided some comparative information. If the A10 bombers used in Iraq, 60 A10 bombers were present in Iraq, millions of missiles fired within a month, 40 A10 bombers bombed in SRJ for 78 days. It's a simple bill. You'll see how many missiles and what the consequences of these missiles are. We from the SRS will vote for this proposal and we will vote for the composition of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35976	The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35977	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first of all to welcome the initiative relating to the formation of this commission to determine the consequences of NATO bombing and to express my support for the establishment of one of these bodies. It's been 19 years since NATO bombing, which has somehow marked us all and left a mark. Some of us were just kids back then. And what happened during that 1999, during those 78 days, was certainly an unprecedented crime. During all these years, no government has had the strength, nor the courage to form one such commission, and to approach the establishment of the consequences of NATO bombing. There has never been a will to approach this process thoroughly and responsibly, because it is about the lasting consequences of both our country and our health and our environment and our citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia is ready to support the work of this commission and the establishment of a national research laboratory. What is very important in the formation of this commission is that the commission will be done apart from the MPs, the prominent experts in the field of medicine, biochemistry, the experts of the Vinch Institute and other prominent institutions in Serbia in order to obtain relevant data. It is important to do a detailed analysis, to do a thorough research, and to get the world-renowned results that we will be able to get out of. Given that data show that poor uranium has been used in multiple locations in Kosovo and Metohija, that NATO maps exist, it is clear why a detailed analysis must be done. The Commission will, in addition to the determination of the consequences of the use of poored uranium, on which, of course, an accent has been placed in the formation of this Commission, will have the task of dealing in particular with the chemical and toxic effects of uranium, because they exceed the radioactive effects. It is also important to examine the consequences of the bombing related to the effects of energy plants, chemical plants such as Azotara, Petrochemia, Refineria, as chemical substances have been released at high concentrations and the effects of these toxins will also be subject to the Commission's investigation. During its work, the commission members will rely on a qualified probability institute, i.e. they will work together among cities, different ages of respondents and conditions in the environment. The Commission will have to determine the data because, unfortunately, statistics show that in Serbia, an increasing number of people are suffering from malignant diseases and it is important that we find the cause. It's our moral obligation to find the cause, determine the facts and prove the connection between the bombing and these circumstances. The Commission will also rely on research done by brave and free-minded Italy. We owe our citizens these facts as well. We cannot prejudge the outcome of the commission's work, but it is important that we determine the truth and take the appropriate steps, such as the recovery of the terrain in those locations where it has not been done and where it is fortunate that the commission was formed in 2000, we could probably prevent many things in this way. The commission's task is to determine whether there is a link between a large number of malignancies, because the fact that there is no nearly a city or municipality that has not been bombed and has not suffered losses of human and material. What is evident is that young people are sick, children are sick, those who are involved in sports, who are non-smokers, who absolutely do not fit in with a known clinical picture at all, and who have in no way been able to contribute to the development of the disease in their way of life. These data are really alarming and it's in the citizens' interest to get to the truth. The damage certainly cannot be compensated, but justice must be served. I am convinced that the commission through its work will achieve this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35978	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35979	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, today's agenda item Proposal for a decision on the education of NATO's investigation into the health of Serbian citizens in 1999, as well as the impact on the environment, with particular reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium, is very important for the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people in general, because it is one of the greatest injustices, and I am free to say one of the greatest crimes against our country and our people. Two months ago, we marked this sad anniversary, 19 years from the hardest time for our country in recent history, NATO aggression, illegal intervention without the approval of the Security Council, another such action as one colleague mentioned earlier. The first was illegal aggression on Republika Srpska. In an action they called "Intent Force" in 1995, she took many victims. Thousands of deaths, both civilians and soldiers and police officers, thousands of wounded, both civilians and members of the military and the police, and the material damage was estimated at $100 billion. For irony to be greater, this crime against our people and our state in their media, in their public it is called "A merciful Angel", and only because we did not agree to have someone take our territory, only because we did not agree to be kidnapped by a part of our country, because we defended the Constitution and the laws of our country, just because we defended the sovereignty of our country. We dared to defend ourselves against the daily terrorist attacks of the so-called. The KLA in Kosovo and Metohija. In these insidious bandit ambush attacks, mostly during 1996, during 1997, and most during 1998, our officers were killed almost daily, and in huge numbers, civilians. When in 1998 our army and police broke terrorist riots, when we regained control of the largest part of Kosovo and Metohija, then the pressures on Serbia began. Then Serbs become bad guys, then charges of allegedly ethnic cleansing, charges of alleged war crimes, charges of alleged humanitarian disaster. Then we agree to compromise. We meet the requirements maximumly and on 13 October 1998 we conclude an agreement on the resolution of the Kosovo crisis and allow the Kosovo verification committee to come to Kosovo and Metohija and monitor the real situation of the conflicts in Kosovo and Metohija. The head of the verification police was, by the way, the famous William Walker. Prior to that, he was head of the Transient Administration for Eastern Slavonia in Baranja and Western Srem after the Erdut Agreement, which followed the 1995 Crime Action "Storm". Wherever Walker was engaged in these premises, the result would have been fatal to the Serb people. So the mission's main task was to create conditions for Serbia's later bombing. When in early 1999, in the village of Racak, regular police broke the foothold and neutralized terrorists from the so-called village. Okay, that's exactly what Walker's mission calls a massacre. They send tenentious and mounted reports to the world and launch a monstrous campaign that will soon lead to the start of the bombing. At peace talks in Rambuje during February and March 1990, Yugoslavia reiterated its readiness and offered the widest possible autonomy within Serbia. We've agreed to a wide variety of demands, almost all but one, and that's to take away a part of our country. That obviously wasn't enough. History will certainly give its judgment to each of the participants, but one fact is quite clear. NATO aggression was a terrible crime against the Serb people and there is no excuse for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35980	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35981	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 1999, the NATO Alliance, without the approval of the Security Council, illegally and illegally bombed the SRJ. It is now clear to all that we were not bombed at the time because of the late President Slobodan Milosevic, but that we were bombed to kidnap part of the territory, our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, we fought for it, and we must continue to fight in peace and now in another way. What I want to point out at the beginning was that I was particularly impressed by the presentation of General Bozidar Delic, who explained to us why all of us, when preparing for the presentation, came across different facts when it came to data on how many locations there were, how many NATO strikes were, how many consequences. What our authorised representative, Djordje Milicevic, brought forth, is somewhere in our historical anthem that we carry, that we have no record of our victims, nor of our previous wars, nor of this last one. Serbia's NATO bombing has been used to free itself of powerful radioactive and carcinogenic waste from its power plants. During the 1999 bombing of Serbia, 15 tonnes of radioactive waste was dumped on our country, as we could hear more than once during the day. Experts claim that we have been permanently contaminated by water, air, soil, and have affected the true epidemic of cancer. Our famous neurosurgeon, Professor. Danica Grujic argues there is evidence that NATO's nuclear waste from power plants has scattered all over Serbia. These radioactive substances directly affected the growth of cancer in Serbia, especially in the south of our country. The particularly difficult situation among Kosovo Albanians that NATO allegedly protected is. In the opinion of the expert public, radioactive waste from the NATO Pact bombs has directly affected a significant increase in leukemia and lymphoma in Serbia. From 1999 to today, the number of patients has jumped to 110% and mortality by as much as 160%. Malignant diseases in Serbia are three times more common than in the world due to NATO bombing. Besides being more common, tumors are even more aggressive, so our country is at the top of Europe by the mortality of malignancies. There are increasing numbers of patients and autoimmune diseases and an increasing number of couples are being treated with sterility. By targeting chemical plants, chemical tanks, oil and petrol storage facilities, NATO created conditions of chemical war, without the explicit use of battle poisons. Our entire country during the 78 days of bombing was a polygon to test the efficiency of the most modern electronic technique and new weapons. The target was Petrochemia and Azotara in Pančevo, oil refineries in Panchev and Novi Sad, the "First Spark" in Baric, oil tanks in several locations. All these factories are located on the banks of the Sava and Danube rivers, so other than the pollution of the atmosphere and land, water flow contamination has occurred. From the damaged tanks, a large amount of oil derivatives, which did not completely burn out, drained into the rivers or bifurcated into the ground. Serbia is due to tumor mortality, as we can see from the data, the first in Europe, experts warn, and point to the fact that it is a good part of NATO's bomb with impoverished uranium. During 1999, NATO threw 15 tonnes of poored uranium into the territory of Cosmeta and the border areas of the Pcinj district, with a period of half-degradation of 4.5 billion years. Greece's two-and-a-half months after Serbia's bombing, studies found that radiation on their country's territory increased by 20-30%. Serbian citizens each year bring about 18,600 bekerels of radioactivity into the body, through food, water and air, and the limit is 80. After NATO bombing, Serbia was irradiated 230 times the amount of poor uranium. It was launched, as I could find 415 thousand different missiles, a total of 22,000 tons. About 25,000 houses and buildings were destroyed, about 470km of roads and about 600km of railway lines were destroyed. Sixty percent of target targets were civilian. 16500 tonnes of kerosene burned over Serbia-Montenegro. Burning this amount of kerosene requires the amount of oxygen that all living things in these areas spend in 50 years. In Pancheva and Novi Sad, the Danube has gone three tons alive. The radiation has also been increased in Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and Macedonia. The areas with chemical contamination near Pancheva, Bora, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Baric, Luciana are also mentioned the municipalities from which I come Vrbas. The effects of the toxic and radiation fact of uranium on Serbia's population's health have not yet been seriously investigated. I will skip the data I encountered precisely because of the presentation of General Bozidar Delic, who said there were far more locations than is indicated in the NATO map. Although it has been proven that Serbia is facing a quiet epidemic of malignant diseases, no one can officially blame NATO for this right now, because there are simply no studies that would link the growth of cancer in our country, with the bombing of poor uranium. It is precisely the commission's task to look at the facts and circumstances related to the consequences of NATO bombing in 1999 for Serbia's citizens' health, as well as the environmental impact with special reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. We all as MPs have a duty and obligation to, because of those who have been killed, and because of our descendants, to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing in 1999, to the health of citizens, and to influence the environment. The SPS parliamentary group will therefore unreservedly support the formation of the commission and take active part in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35982	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35983	I thank, honourable chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. It has been 19 years and there has been no political will or political courage to put a proposal for the establishment of such a commission before the most legislative body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time, it was now done by National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, putting on the agenda the formation of a commission to investigate the effects of NATO bombing in 1999 on the health of citizens, as well as the impact on the environment, with special reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. I must point out that the formation of this committee is very important with several aspects. For each individual, for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, the number one priority for each family is its health. For every responsible state, the priority, and this country is, is the health of its population. For SNS, the biggest capital is people, people who owe the truth to what happened 19 years ago, and whether what happened has an impact and whether it has a causal-consequential relationship for their lives, for their health, and for their environment. Of course, the formation of this commission, which will be accompanied by MPs, should also make it known the truth and determine whether there is a causal link. For SNS, one of the greatest values it respects, which applies to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a demonstration of the truth. The truth and only true is what SNS offers and gives to Serbian citizens. On March 20th 1999, at 19.45 hours without the declaration of war, the United States-led NATO-led international documents completely counter-law bombed the Republic of Serbia and thus committed an aggressor act. For 78 days, 11 weeks, NATO bombers were sowing death, sowing fear and leaving poverty in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that during NATO bombing, between 2,700 and 3,500 civilians were killed, 12,500 citizens were killed, 1,080 soldiers and police officers were killed, those soldiers who stood honorably on the defender of their homeland and exercised their rights under the Constitution. NATO's aggressors mainly bombed at night, so bloody and macho, they killed children in their sleep. The children killed by NATO aggressors were a total of 89. They killed the powerless, killed those who asked for help in hospitals. For example, at the "Dragisa Misovic" Clinical Hospital Centre, where only seven Serbian Army guards were killed, just because they were in front of the Clinical Hospital Center. They also killed those who ran from the Storm and the Ustasha knife and came to Surdulica. NATO bombs bombed a pavilion in Surdulica, where they were found just escaped from Republika Srpska. That's when 20 people were killed and 88 civilians were wounded. Interestingly, they bombed a gerontological center in Surdulica, and there were old and powerless people. At the market, they killed a pregnant woman who was seven months pregnant, a medical student. In Batajnica, they killed little girl Milica Rakic at the age of three, insidious, bloodied, at night. The girl was on the nose. In New Market, they killed a two-year-old child in the arms of their father. It has been 19 years since NATO bombing and what is worrying from the aspect of children, and what is found and registered by the Institute of Public Health "Batut", which is an increase in malignancies in children. According to statistics from the Batut Institute, 300 children are reportedly newly discovered to be treated with various forms of malignancies. They're children aged from babies to 14 years. It is also a devastating fact that among deaths in children, up to 14 years old, malignancies are found elsewhere, because unfortunately for one of these children, the outcome is fatal. Malignant diseases are found elsewhere, shortly after the injury. That is why I find it unusually important to form this committee, I find it very important and all of those researches, all of those data and all of those facts that they will determine, presented to the National Assembly, to present the public, and then, in accordance with the law, it will certainly take all appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-17-0.u35984	Thank you. We'd be done with this for today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 6:50 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next MPs, i.e. Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has been prevented. We're continuing a unique search. The word has a folk letter from Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
