ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29092	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before continuing the work of the National Assembly, allow me to congratulate the International Women's Day on my personal name and on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with all the ladies on March 8th. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? MP Vojislav Seselj has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. As I learned from the daily press that David Corbett, a former Marine, a member of Foke 6 Special Unit, was involved in the capture of Osama bin Laden, expressed concern in the central prison since his return to America, that he would be liquidated there because of an unfulfilled task or because of the impunity he has fallen into the hands of our police, why they have not already started negotiations to offer David Corbett the apportionment, because there have already been several crimes. He's got illegal weapons possession, he's got a high sentence, then he's got a felony of preparing a terrorist act or assassination or a similar act, it's obvious he's been preparing something, offering him an ablation from prosecution, asylum, and life protection, and in return, he admits in detail who sent him, who he should have killed, and for what reason, if that's the third known to him. This is very important, because I expect David Corbett to be the only one. Those others who come may be even more capable than he is. It might be harder to get caught, because they won't ask for the help of domestic criminals, and they're going to talk to each other on the phone about how they get a gun to the American. If he hadn't trusted our domestic criminals, we'd probably never have caught him. For all these reasons, and especially because the US Embassy has shown no apparent interest in him, in the possible protection of his rights, in providing legal assistance, as is done in all other cases of detention, arrest or initiation of an investigation against American and any other foreign citizens. You don't have to play with this. We won't have anything if we sentence some milder punishment for David Corbett, so we banish him, we'll get a lot more if he tells everything he knows. This is where police protection was given to all false witnesses, frauds, murderers, like this, and this is such a serious thing that nothing should be left to the case. If this is ignored, then we will face far more dangerous insults and good, of course, any prominent figures in public life can be found on impact, and you are making sure that one of us can be killed by the opposition, so that in public you are blamed. Don't play that game. David Corbett is qualified for all aspects of the action, and the others who come after him will be even more capable. That's all I had.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29094	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29095	Thank you. My questions today concern the areas of environmental protection and I refer them to Ministers Goran Trivan and Branislav Nedimovic, therefore, the current Minister for Environmental Protection and his predecessor who took care of this until a special ministry was established. I wonder why the government, in the first row of ministers, hides that there are dozens of tons of carcinogenic asbestos in the middle of the factory, that there are also dozens of dangerous and toxic living in the middle of the factory, of which is a large amount of almost pure metal living and that we know very well that it cannot be processed or exported? Since this is a state giant, state ministers would have to know everything about it, and current Minister Trivan, unless it came to that knowledge, can recommend that he ask his wife, John, who is a member of the monitoring board of that same Petrochemia. I am also interested in being answered what they intend to do with this carcinogenic asbestos and this toxic mercury, since some posted people say that asbestos is solved by delivering to certain operators that it is solidified and then sold to Lafarja. That's why I'm asking for concrete answers from the authorities about what's going on here. The next question, when we are already in the environmental protection portfolio, I also ask both ministers, what is the epilogue in the case or the affairs of traveling waste, and whether it was just a public show in the election campaign, or if something really does seem to be the occasion, given that as one of the winemakers is very often mentioned, and this is the company Step Trans from Novi Sad. The company is mentioned four months ago when the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection granted official information on 27 November 2017, as well as those responsible from the company Eco-carics, an unfounded loan from the state, i.e. since then, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, amounting to 43 million dinars. It turned out that only those who received the loan and nearly 400,000 euros damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that no one from the ministry who enabled them signed the solution and allocated it was not guilty. I'm afraid that's far from truth and justice. What is also important, and these are the answers I ask, that both Minister Nedimovic and Minister Trivan specifically respond to who were the members of the Commission for the granting of these loans? I am talking specifically about loans and loans granted in the period from 2015. – 2017, and that amount of 43,000,000 dinars to these companies “Ecokarika” and “Step Trans”? Who signed and approved the loan? Is the exact information that I came up with that one of the main people who was in charge of hyperproduction and production of various permits to operators, who care for hazardous waste, was Stana Bozovic, the secretary of state then, and otherwise known in public for personal information from her biography, that the first in Berana had a TV set, just to explain who it was? To go back to the end on Petrochemy in Pancheva. For days, the Pančevs, and my entire southern Banat, and my Vojvodina are extremely concerned about creepy information, which is that for a year, huge amounts of dangerous and toxic chlorine have been released into the air and that this is due to the responsibility of a poor remont a year ago, the responsibilities of the Petrochemy management, which the ministers also need to know, and that there is a constant error in the production of PEVG, so PEVG, during which huge amounts of chlorine disappear, and in fact it is quite clear that they are being broadcast in the air. I'm looking for information on what's actually going on or just this question is being raised in an election campaign, and then we're running out of answers, extremely endangered in the area of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29096	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29097	Thank you, Chairman. I ask Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic's question, which concerns a massive phenomenon that took place on Sunday in the local elections in Belgrade on March 4th, that a large number of people have received calls to vote on addresses attended by other persons. So it's hundreds of thousands of calls received by some citizens, and they don't live at these addresses. I ask Minister Stefanovic – how is it possible that in almost all cases, according to JMBG, these people who received the calls were not even born in Belgrade and are not on PIO Fund records? Secondly, these citizens are not the owners of the immovable property, nor its special parts in the building, which can be determined by the insight into the list of immovableities according to the record of Katastra. Third, of course, those faces don't know those people who own these properties, apartments and houses. The legal advice of the People's Party, as well as the legal team of the list whose holder was Dragan Gilas, received a large number of citizens' applications and, if necessary, we have persons who will testify that at their addresses, where they live, there have been calls for a vote for some people they don't even know. The second question is also for the interior minister. Since the Bor elections were held that day, there was a mass phenomenon of a large number of jeeps, dozens of jeeps without plates, which circled several days before the election and on the day of elections in Bor. Following the report by the chairman of the Committee of the People's Party in Bor and the bearer of Mr. Dragan Markovic's list to the Bor Police Station that there are a large number of unidentified vehicles circulating Borom, he received an answer that police cannot react on the day of the election, because they do not have free people available and will consider the application Monday. They were told, off the record, that they actually had a warrant to turn their heads on the street if they met a car without license plates, a jeep without license plates, or some people from other cities and municipalities that were doing some work there. So, I ask the question - who in the chain of responsibility gave the Ministry of Interior a warrant to the local police, or to the Bor police station, not to respond to the citizens' application? Does the MUP react only to applications when representatives, or members of ruling parties, do so, and are they different from citizens who do not support the current regime? You're talking about your authority and that your president is the president of all citizens, so I guess the institutions are in the service of all citizens. Today we're talking, and these days, about the law of the police, about the safety of the citizens. Is this how it's shown that when someone from the opposition parties submits a report, you don't respond to it? Are these the institutions you've been building over the past six years? Next, I'm asking the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. The government of the Republic of Serbia just ahead of the elections identified funds for the Belgrade Social Labour Centre of 208.500,000 dinars and to split one-time assistance of 13.900 people worth 15,000 dinars. The Centre for Social Labour, Belgrade, has submitted an express list of certain municipalities from Belgrade. Interestingly, on these lists are people who are not at all users of the social work centre. The money was immediately transferred from the ministry and lists that were immediately approved to make payment immediately before the elections on Thursday and Friday. That's what happened in Bora, where there were also elections. I ask the question – on what criteria are certain users who have received one-time assistance and who are endangered residents...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29098	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29099	... meet the conditions and criteria for obtaining this assistance, I conclude, which documentation was needed and why the residents of the municipality of Zemun and Novi Belgrade are not covered and why the decision is not published on the site...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29100	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29101	Thank you. My first question goes to Prime Minister Brnabic and Justice Minister Mrs. Kuburovic. Namely, whether the possible support of the Serbian list of ratifications of the Kosovo-Montenegro State Border Agreement would mean that it would violate the constitution and whether those members of the Serbian List will have... Please, Chairman, I can't speak. This is where the MPs earn. So, let me repeat, will any support from the Serb list of ratifications of the Agreement...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29102	I'm asking my colleagues to listen to a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29103	Please, Chairman, this is an important question and I want my time back. So I'm starting over. My question goes to Prime Minister Brnabic and Mrs Kuburovic – will the possible support of the Serbian list of ratifications of the Kosovo-Montenegro State Border Agreement, which means that it will mean that these people who support it bear certain responsibility, above all criminal responsibility for the violation of the constitution, because there is no limit between Kosovo and Montenegro, but there is a limit between Serbia and Montenegro? To whom will they bear this criminal responsibility? It is a special issue for Mrs Kuburovic, since we know what it looks like and that the entire judiciary has been evacuated from Kosovo and Metohija. The second issue is for our prime minister, or we heard from the media that 15 days ago the International Money Laundering Body put Serbia on the blacklist along with Syria, Yemen, Somalia and similar countries. Yesterday we heard from the prime minister that Serbia is not on the blacklist, but only on the monitoring, because it has applied 35 out of 40 recommendations. Question for Alexander Vukic – has an investigation ever been conducted against you because of the influence on witnesses and the change of testimony in the proceedings against Vojislav Seselj? Sam Vojislav Seselj said that such an investigation against you was conducted in a duel with Bosca Obradovic, on TV Studio B, but he did not say who and when he was leading? If our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office led, Vladimir Vukcevic and Bruno Vekaric, then we understand her outcome, given that Vekaric publicly praised you for helping locate General Ratko Mladic. A question for Justice Minister Nelu Kuburovic. A few days, recently via e-mail, after speaking to the Office of the Chief Prosecutor of the Hague Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, The Hague tribunal addressed the Republic of Serbia by e-mail, in order to clarify whether the Serbian authorities accept the conduct of proceedings against our distinguished counterparts, the People's MPs Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radete, who the tribunal has launched. I ask you to send me this letter from the UN tribunal, and what decision has the Ministry of Justice made on this occasion made? A question for Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Do you have information on the endangered security of SNS member Aleksandar Stefanovic, given his public recognition that he participated in various criminal acts? He publicly published a video statement stating that his security was compromised and that the video statement serves as evidence if it was liquidated by the people he called or perhaps already has been liquidated, in written statements under full moral, material and criminal responsibility. He is particularly concerned that false information is being placed about his allegedly severe health condition, although he, thank God, is therefore free of health problems. Question for Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorko Dolovac. Why don't you call Alexander Stefanovic and give him the status of witness associates before, God forbid, some figuratively spoken banana bark happens to him, as at Studio B, Vojislav Seselj said on March 1st? It's a question for Alexander Wolf. When was the last time you saw each other, heard and exchanged a text message with Alexander Stefanovic? Have you read the work version of the book “How the vervain wedge was metald”? A question for Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. How many people received Serbian citizenship from 1.1.2012 to 1.3.2018? How many people have been given residence in Belgrade from 1.1.2017 to 1 March 2018? How long was the residence checkout during the same period? How could there be a large number of applications of residence on Belgrade's territory in residential buildings, where residents practically do not know any of these persons, nor did one of the tenants give approval, nor did the apartment owner's ID card to sign up for those addresses? We have thousands of such examples, and we ask Minister Stefanovic to explain who can change the application of residence without the owner of the apartment, who is personally present at the MUP, or did he give his ID card? It's a question for Alexander Wolf. Have you and your closest associates committed physical violence in the family against your wives, as well as violence against women? Do you know journalist Mira Pelakovic and Gordana Juzbasic? I thank the chairman. (Alexander Martinovic: This is for a reminder. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29104	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29105	I thank the chairman. I fully agree with my fellow MPs. Here you had to react, given that it was a rude violation of this House's reputation, by calling in a way that was absolutely inappropriate. In this way, I am taking up my time, but this is high time to respond to MPs representing the Assembly in this way, extremely negative. My parliamentary question concerns the Ministry of Health. Why? Starting with the fact that the highest and most humane value is saving human life, then this question is quite logical to refer to the resolution ministry and to the application of the provisions of the Transfonical Medicine Act. In particular, this law reflects on both blood donors and blood donors and on blood banks and on the distribution of blood and blood components. This law reflects to the greatest extent institutions that will deal practically and directly with transfusion medicine. The question arises, is this law all arranged? It is certainly not, but what is not arranged imposes the necessity of the need to ask such a question. In particular, is it possible for blood and blood components to be delivered where necessary, where patients' lives are at stake, where special plans can't be made, by day or periodical, or by any other definition of the amount of blood and blood components needs. In that sense, I will appeal to the transfusiological service of the General Hospital in Užica, without the intention of discriminating any city, any municipality in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because we will all face this problem I am talking about, and the most harm or adverse consequences do not God, can have those who need blood, and these are patients. Of course, my question is going through another problem, and that's the problem with destimulating the blood donor. In particular, it is that the Transfusion Law does not define the way in which the institutions are formed and where these transfusions will be located. According to some unofficial attitude, one of the institutions will be in Kragujevac. If that's the case, then the whole Zlatibor County is in trouble. Why? Because it is impossible for a short time from Kragujevac to Užica to distribute blood and blood components where it is necessary, where the factual transfusiological service of General Hospital in Užica is most modernly equipped with a professional staff that has extremely high reference abilities, educations, where all those services that can not be provided elsewhere can be provided. It is that municipalities and these small municipalities from the territory of the Zlatibor district, such as Priboj, Prijepolje and Nova Varoš, will be unable to obtain blood for those who need it. Reminders for the sake of this, the Zlatibor District means the territory where the most frequent traffic connects three states to Serbia, Montenegro, the Federation of BiH. Unfortunately, this is why a large number of car accidents occur, unfortunately in these accidents people with extremely severe bodily injuries, life-threatening, where surgical and all kinds of surgical interventions are necessary. The Uzic Blood Supply Service has all the potential for such a thing, but if the essence and nature of its work are removed from it, there are consequences that a large number of patients will be prevented from getting blood. The blood donors will be destimulated. For this reason, I ask the Minister of Health to consider the possibility of setting up in Užica the Institute for Transfect Medicine, because this institution has, among other things, extremely modern equipment, technology, even technology that identifies markers for full transmitted diseases, through the transfer of blood and blood components, as well as the ability to identify both donors and blood and blood components. Once again, I ask the Minister to consider this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29106	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29107	Thank you. A request by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic to submit a report on the application of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which entered into force on 1 June of last year, with an additional request for the report to be drawn up in co-operation with the prosecutors, the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and the Centres for Social Labour and the High Council of the judiciary, and that it contains the following information. The total number of reports of domestic violence cases in Serbia from the moment the law came into force, the total number of risk assessments made by police units on-site. Total number of emergency measures imposed for domestic violence cases, the total number of trials initiated and criminal charges based on the criminal act of domestic violence and the number of trials completed. Why I think it's so important that we have this report, regardless of what the Ministry and the Ministry personally, along with the people of the working groups and the prosecution, the Social Labour Centre, gave information to the media. It is important to us because this is the first time we will be able to compare law enforcement in the last six months of 2017 with the first six months of 2018. All the indicators of the report since the day of entry into force have made it clear that the situation is improving, that people in the ministry are better equipped, that the prosecution is responding better, but people in families are still getting hurt. Since the beginning of 2018, nine women and three men have been killed in domestic violence in the last 10 weeks. If violence continues in such a way, we will remain without 55 to 60 people by the end of the year, because we have an obstacle to the application of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. The report to be delivered to me, I will ask my colleagues on committees and bodies here in the Assembly to be the subject of our dialogues and our debates, because I believe that Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic would have to deliver the report with his own assessment of what are obstacles to better applying the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. The goal of rule of law is to save lives. Our task in the congregation is to oversee and control everyone in the executive power to be the rule of law that saves lives. I refer the question to Minister Zoran Djordjevic – when is he planning to adopt a draft law on gender equality at the meeting of the Government of Serbia? This law has been followed by a metaphor of a cloth ball being kicked between different ministries for many months, following incredible information about ministers assessing what is applicable and what is not, forgetting that it is the task of this Assembly and following an atmosphere that is completely unnecessary, because I think there is no one who will be against the birth equality law, which we have committed to bringing it back to Chapter 23 for the previous and last quarter of 2017. So, when does he have a plan for the law to go to the government and become a proposal? Question for the Minister of Culture, Mr Vukosavljevic – at what stage is the development of a proposal to finance public media services? He is one of the ministers of this government, rare, who had reason enough to accept my amendments more than a year and a half ago to extend the financing of public media services for two years, not one, as they suggested. That second year's up, first quarter's up. Time flies and before we turn around, will we come into a situation or in December the minister asks for a continuation of funding as it is, so that I am giving the amendment again for longer, which I will gladly do, or to inform us at what stage is the work to establish a stable and sustainable financing of Serbia's public media services and the Vojvodina Radio-Television? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29108	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29109	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I ask questions to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, or to the prosecution. During the former regime's party, various embezzlements, robbery privatisations and other forms of economic crime took place, bringing the city of Belgrade, including the whole country, to the brink of bankruptcy. The former regime's criminal activities are the result of the performance of directors of public enterprises and city officials. In Belgrade, while the mayor was Dragan Gilas, known as the Giki Mafia, a criminal group known as the so-called "City Cleanness" is in a public utility called the so-called "City Cleanness". "The garbage mob", embezzled 374m dinars, and thus was originally sentenced to 72 years in prison. I ask the question – is it true that it is so-called "The garbage mafia" was linked to Gilas as mayor of Belgrade, and that Gilas's political-financial mafia was the so-called "major". "Bullshit Mafia" in a second-degree court was freed from responsibility? Once again, I ask the question – what is the role of Dragan Gilas in the process? The second question – is it true that former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas was responsible for the robbery of "Telecoma" Serbia in 2011, when the state-owned company under Gilas pressure was forced to buy four cable channels of his "Arena sport" for 7.7m euros? Otherwise, this investment in the public was presented as, I quote his words – the most significant investment – finished a quote, although it was completely unnecessary. I note, "Telecom" Serbia was not allowed to own the media at the time. But Gilas had to sell four of his cable channels in someone's name, so he decided it best to be via Telecom Serbia and his then-yellow director, Branko Raduk. Even Zeljko Mitrovic once said that "Telecom" Serbia bought cable channels of his "Arena sport" under Gilas' pressure, so that for who knows which time the budget money was paid to private persons and so the fine crime of Djiki would increase his wealth from the pockets of Serbian citizens. The third question - former Smederjevska Palanka municipality president and current MP and president of the former regime's executive committee, Radoslav Milojic, called Kena, spent 457 000 710 dinars in 2006 on beer. A second day, the brown kabadiah at the Atrium cafe spent an additional 110 000 and 800 dinars on coffee and water. That brown kabadiah is 13. 05. In 2016 spent an additional 138 thousand 850 dinars for beer. Dear citizens and MPs, here in the high house for two days this Milojic Kena, complains that he is visited daily by the presidents of neighbouring municipalities and does not know why they are coming to Smederjevska Palanka. Here, I was told that they went to see the graphite that speaks of Ken’s Kabadai behavior, which reads: “The truth is alive, there are no beer in Palank, all that remains is foam, the yellow Ken took it. What does a bar drink, the budget pays for everything, I'm the yellow Ken from Glibovac, for fuck's sake." I ask the prosecutor's office if he has filed an indictment and I suggest that the witness protected be Simonovic, a Serb named Srbo Sisavac. Here, respected citizens, due to such types as: Dragan Djilas, called "Djiki Mafia", Sasa Radulovic, called "King of Banks", Bosko Obradovic, called "lupetin", Zoran Zivkovic, a known farmer in an attempt, has been named "Sale Pranja", Radoslav Milojičić called "Pivopi" and Sergey Trifunović called "pisanovic" or "pisa", the citizens remained shallow pockets, so they were sent to a political dump on 4 March 2018 from which he will never return to Serbia's political stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29110	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs – Djordje Vukadinović and Momo Colakovic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 18 of the agenda. Switching to the list of reported participants in the discussion. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29111	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning and in his personal name to dear colleagues and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at all, I congratulate the International Women's Day. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the proposed laws from the department of police work are good, that certain remarks that we had in the previous days from colleagues that there was little time simply do not stand. They went through the whole public debate, everyone had the right to make objections if he had them. I must once again point out that these proposals are primarily aimed at the efficiency of the interior ministry's work and the security of Serbian citizens. What I would like first of all to ask Mr. Minister Stefanovic, I come from Šumadia, I come from Topola, many colleagues have mentioned criminal policy here and it is good to go with increasing criminal measures because only prevention can help you. In the previous year, we had one and a good staff change, and this was the appointment of Mrs. Jasmine Rajkovic as head of SUP Kragujevac, and therefore for the entire Šumadian district and it proved to be a good step. What I ask you, dear Minister, is that you try to continue what we started in 2017, which is the shipping of the MUP. First of all, the train park is a great step forward, and on the other hand I ask you to consider increasing the number of traffickers. We, unfortunately, do we now and because of this public sector employment ban, have the current situation, for example, that in Topoli we only have five traffickers, and in 2017 we only had traffic accidents that, unfortunately, brought five deaths, that's more than we had in all the wars of the '90s. Please, simply act with your authority to increase the number of uniform police officers in the municipalities they have, not only the crossing of the highways and regional roads, because of these five fatalities in traffic three have occurred on the state roads. Therefore, I ask you, unfortunately in the municipalities across the forest, and also in central Serbia, we no longer remember when a young uniform police officer or a police officer was admitted to the service, and I think it is time to bring about human refreshment and the reception of new people, and then the work of the ministry itself will be much, much more effective. What else can I ask you, Mr. Minister? We've mentioned prevention, we've mentioned equipment, it's a good thing that video surveillance is introduced in technical vehicle tests, but what else is very important? When we mention criminal policy, I come from the forest where tradition is, and you're quite often, and I'm like the president of the municipality, the MP, at the guest weddings, I think it may be excessive, and I'm asking you, for example, that when we go to the wedding, we shoot, and we go to the bride, by shooting an apple, here as much as I've seen, up to two months in prison. That, please, we have also intervened with the amendments not to be there the next time we go to people, they say - MP, what is it that we can shoot in the apple when we go after the bride? That's where I'm asking you to pay attention. One more thing, because of the time I have a little more at my disposal, you're acting Chief of Staff for emergency situations. Please, use your authority to help buy anti-urban missiles. On April 15th, we begin our defense season from the city. Already yesterday in Pomoravlje, Šumadija, western Serbia, we had a city, although I still have to mention the season starts on April 15th, but please, there is only your authority to help us be prepared and welcome this year the season with ready shooters and a ready system, i.e. we have enough anti-urban missiles to have something to defend our fields with. I thank you again, I think the proposed laws are good and we'll support it in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29112	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29113	First I congratulate all the ladies today on the 8th of March and those present and all in Serbia, all in the world, and I wish you every day to be the 8th of March. We have a session that's scheduled after a few months, of course, with a big agenda with a merger of everything and everything in a unique debate. Of course, by emergency procedure, everything in the manners we've been used to in recent years, which is to lead to nonsense. Very often, the government succeeds in that. I'm sorry he does it all the time, because in these thirty-something laws there's at least half of which I could give a compliment, but because of the way it's applied, I can't do it this time, and I'm sorry about that. The focus of my discussion will be on one law, which is the Law in confirming the Treaty on the Co-operation of Serbia's MUP and the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation. It's a very unusual thing, and I've used a little bit of my experience from that area in analysis, but more experience from some other people who know more about it and who have been on both sides of that area. So, what's unusual about that? First, is that an international agreement? Po, the law that defines that area is not an international agreement, because the international agreement is something that the state of Serbia signes, just concludes in a written form such a formulation with one or more states with international organisations. This is not about the agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation, but about an agreement between the Serbian MUP and a Russian service called the Federal Security Service. No other institution has a legal personality in a state sense. So, normal contracts are signed in this area and that's what needs to be done, but by signing the state with the state, that contract is also addressed by the agreement of the Republic of Serbia and, let's say, the Kingdom of Belgium what kind of agreement we have on the agenda today and which is both in shape and in content is completely different from what we've got here. The question is, why? We've got more formal mistakes. First, the contract was signed on 23 May last year when the government was in the technical mandate, so no one, nor the minister, could sign the agreement with anyone. Why was this announced by Petrusev, a senior official of Russia's security structures in October 2016 as a Memorandum without legal obligation, and then we reached a contract. The question is, does this contract only solve technical affairs, that's correct, so it can't have the status of an international contract or is it something more? We also have essential questions. Why does Serbia's MUP sign a contract with one service, a pandan and a Russian service called the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation could be the Personal Security Authority, as most of the content of this contract concerns exactly that, co-operation on the security of individuals in the territory of both states. Then it's a technical agreement that doesn't need to be verified in parliament. We know exactly what is being verified in parliament, what is an international agreement, and I've talked about it before. So, that symmetry is unsustainable and the question is why, is that administration, Russian stronger than our MUP, or are they equivalent, and neither should be true. This treaty otherwise endangers Serbia's sovereignty in the area of security, as it foresees that many things that could be easily defined and defined as official secrets, as state secrets, as top secret information, are given to this agreement to give insight to a foreign country, regardless of what is brotherly Russia, there are many laws and some international relations. There's also a reference here to the fight against computer attacks. So, the agreement is called – about the protection of personality, technical co-operation above all about the protection of personality, and then all of a sudden there is a mention of the defence common to computer attacks. Who's attacking us computerically? I think MPs should also know whether this potential co-operation means that we are unable to defend ourselves against these attacks. And if we're not capable, who's defending us, why are the Russians defending us? Someone would say that when they were defending us? And who are they defending us from? And who's attacking us? It's all things that aren't clear here, and it would be good if someone could explain it to us. Finally, we have the definition of even these governments and these authorities towards Euro-Atlantic integration, i.e. towards approaching and entering the EU, and I ask you what effect this agreement will have on our accession, especially if Chapter 24 dealing with justice, freedom and security and Chapter 31 dealing with the country's common foreign security and defence policy. I underline the current situation on the controversial impact of Russian security services on elections in some countries, it is a theme in the United States, it is a topic in some other Western world countries, and I would not be surprised to see that this influence existed for the Belgrade elections as well. Maybe I'm exaggerating, maybe it's too much of a qualification, I'm kidding, of course, but definitely this agreement is neither formal nor essential under the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29114	You're bringing the end of my colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29115	... nor corresponds to the interests of Serbia. I'm asking the minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29116	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29117	First of all, I see that in this agreement, no matter what is written in it, everyone reads what he thinks, whatever he thinks he doesn't write there and interprets according to some of his specifics, wishes, hopes, whatever they want us to call it. Namely, this agreement contributes to closer and better quality co-operation between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation, which is not part of Russia's MUP, but rather an independent service, and therefore the MUP of the Republic of Serbia signs the agreement with this service. The subject of our cooperation with this service is the exchange of cooperation with top-level security experts, the protection of protected persons and objects, the exchange of information in this area and joint training, the use of materials, technical and transport means, equipment, weapons, means of communication when performing a security job, as well as when asking the issue of information security. When you protect the faces, personalities and state facilities, the critical infrastructure of the country, of course, they can be threatened, informically, so they can be directed and threatened by the Internet, they can be threatened in different ways and there can be a threat to the facilities of the state infrastructure by cyber attacks, and it has been happening everywhere in the world, and one of the countries we work with is the Russian Federation. We co-operate with the United States at the same time, we co-operate with the largest number of EU countries, which is probably natural. The breadth of co-operation and the breadth of communication opportunities of the Republic of Serbia allows for quality and good information on the possible threat to our country from all sides. We are not the government that has emigrated the NATO Pact to the headquarters of its defence and home affairs ministries. We are not the ones who gave them information, not through an agreement that is non-transparent, but we are giving it to the National Assembly for verification. There were governments sent from one floor to another without any papers, state secrets. It was all accounted for. We don't give anyone anything that could endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia, because each of these agreements says, and now I'm going to quote, "In accordance with domestic legislation". So anyone who thinks he is achieving co-operation must stick to state laws governing the area and state secrets and confidential information and the interests of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Republic of Serbia is a sovereign country. We work with those countries we want to work with. That right no one can take away from us, maybe someone thinks we need someone to dictate to us who we need and how to cooperate, but we don't think so. We think we should work together with everyone. This co-operation is very transparent, after all, because this law is in front of the National Assembly today, so that it can be seen by the public, to see the National Assembly, there is nothing under the grain, there is nothing invisible and this law is good, because it will train our people from the Security Unit, as we call today our continent within the MUP, will train as they have already begun these cooperations, that these people are doing a better and more professional job in protecting protected persons in our country, protected personalities coming from abroad, and also state infrastructure objects. This isn't category security cooperation for you to exchange some classified information. This is a security cooperation where you exchange information that can protect a person's life, to determine if that person is threatened or someone is trying to threaten or threaten the facilities of our infrastructure in any way, to determine who is doing it, and to come to justice quickly, to hand those persons over to the courts. That's what this is about. I'm sorry that this agreement is trying to be politicized by a part of the people whose cooperation with Russia is obviously not close, would prefer co-operation with NATO. We don't see it that way, we think we should work together with everyone. While the political party, the SNS to which it belongs, while it has the opportunity to influence policy in this country, for us co-operation with all countries of the world that can help Serbia be safer, will be an absolute priority and there will be no policy there. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29118	You have no right to a replica, colleague Zivkovic, there was no misreading or offensive expressions. (Zoran Zivkovic: absolutely wrong interpretation. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29119	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow farmer performed interestingly here. The object of his interest was the Russians, an agreement with the Russians. David Black, Anthony Monkton, six of them CIA. He probably didn't want to talk about them, for the simple reason that there is reasonable doubt that they helped him, from his post as a temporary winemaker as federal police minister, become prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. So it's two people who are certainly interested in killing Prime Minister Djindjic. Also, it has never been clarified how the federal police minister helped guard Zoran Djindjic from 2000 to 2003, regardless of how he was a federal minister. He had proper obligations and powers to protect both federal units, the leadership of the federal state, as well as the leadership of the republic. It is very interesting that the federal minister who affects security comes to the scene of the murdered prime minister, it is very interesting that in the meantime, the federal minister never tried to clarify the murder of Momir Gavrilovic, who was an assistant at the Security Centre, as far as I remember, I don't know if I used the correct term, I was a DB worker. Also, it has never been clarified during his term of office that Bosko Buha was killed outside the Yugoslav hotel, and I have not seen that level of panic with him, since it happened at the time of his term of office. Also, I've never been able to explain the role of these two that I mentioned that didn't come from Bonsteel base on the other side. The murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, whose place, behold, a miracle has just come from my fellow farmer. On this occasion, he arrested 12,000 people, as if 12,000 people were involved in the prime minister's murder. When the state of emergency was imposed, officials, perpetrators and possible co-workers in the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic would be discovered. It certainly couldn't have been done by 12,000 people, of whom 9,000 people had not received any criminal charges, except their legs were broken down, embarrassed in front of neighbors, neighbors, etc. It has never been explained why, after not a reconstruction, but a new government election, the new prime minister who came to the post of the murdered prime minister, left the republican police minister to continue to be the republican police minister, although his service worker, allegedly, and I believe, after the verdict was made, killed the prime minister. So if a police officer killed the prime minister, it's normal for the new prime minister to cancel his job first to the republican police minister and perhaps to himself, because he was a federal police minister at the time. To make the matter even weirder, privatisation was made in favour of US companies several key factories in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There is talk, and there is evidence that my colleague, the farmer, in connection with the privatisation of DIN and DIV, took a substantial commission, but the privatisation began during "Sablje", at a time when other participants had to be afraid and to be careful whether they would compete in such privatisations, since the prime minister was my fellow farmer, who was obviously very vindictive. All this suggests that a curse that our people said is justified here: “May my fellow farmer have been a federal minister or a police minister. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29120	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29121	Of course, I use the right to replica in a formal sense. The previous speaker didn't say anything about the law, about the subject, about any law that's on the agenda today. Of course the Serbian public knows his role. I'm not going to define it again because everyone knows it and it's described in several folk proverbs that are known in Serbia, so there's no need for me to repeat them, or diagnose them, or anything else. As for my announcement about the Serbian public hearing, of course, once again what has been determined several times and what has not been denied these five years of chaos in Serbia, the last, it is that the fully clarified murder of Zoran Djindjic, which took place 15 years ago, is here for the other day, to know who his murderers and organisers are, and unfortunately, has not yet proved himself an inspirational yet, but we can recognize that in those who were drunk that day, who were looking forward and who were hiding that day. Of course, the SMUP had no jurisdiction over the security of republican officials, which these honorable men and women in uniform can speak of and without uniforms sitting here next to the minister. We have a few more evidence that it's cleared up in 100 possible ways of 100 possible ways. As for the privatisation of the tobacco industries in Serbia, I think it's always an interesting topic and that it should always be reconsidered, especially because it was done by tender, and the head of the tender privatisation at the time was Sinisa Mali, a self-proclaimed doctor of science, as well as the present minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29122	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I remember the enthusiasm here in the Assembly when your government was elected only a few days after the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I regret that his personal cameraman is not here today, that the police have deprived him of his freedom, so he could perpetuate my fellow farmer. Zoran Zivkovic received a replica, in my opinion, completely unfounded, but I don't mind. In that replica, he didn't deny any of what I said. So, I have decidently claimed that he was the federal police minister at the time of the murder of Republic Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. I also claimed that my farmer colleague came to the post of Serbian Prime Minister instead of killed Zoran Djindjic. I also claimed that my fellow farmer, when he became prime minister, had never tried once, even re-named the same police minister, a republican, who allowed his officer to deprive the life of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. So, I justifiably doubted that this could not have happened by chance, that someone would be adventurous, become prime minister, and, at the time of the new election, the government of the Republic of Serbia left an old police minister to whom they killed the prime minister as a disabled man in the government's backyard. In the end, my colleague, a farmer, after killing Prime Minister Djindjic, came up with the best idea of lifting a spoon and fork monument. We're lucky he didn't raise him from the vadiceps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29124	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29125	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, these laws, which are also in a united debate, show a continuation of the practice of non-transparent discussion on false topics. Certainly, it will not essentially change what is supposed to happen in Serbia. The evidence is that two years ago a police law was passed and, behold, you're changing it after two years. Thus, this practice continues that the laws that are being adopted will not achieve those things and those that are expected of them. So, this newly proposed law or amendments to this law are a step back to the legal arrangement of the police's work and further collapse of the institution of the MUP, further collapse of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, with the idea of increasing the power of those who have political functions in the institutions, in particular in this case the interior minister, and to cut down the wings of the system's institutions. And the proof of that is that yesterday, Mr. Minister, you tried to unwittingly defend that this law gives you the possibility that you can do without a competition, an act of internal planning and systematicization to hire cops without competition. You responded yesterday and said that this only applies if it is the establishment of a working relationship between officials and children of persons who have lost their lives or are wounded in actions or professionally doing their jobs. You forgot to say, Minister, that there are three other categories where you will have the right to hire people. One of them says – when the Internal Planning and Systematization Act provides that the competition is not being held for individual jobs, a broad interpretation that gives you the opportunity to do whatever you want about employment in the Ministry. Furthermore, as regards the work of the MUP, since 2012, you have announced the fight against corruption and I ask you where today is this fight against corruption in 2018, unless you want to talk about how diverse media arrests are, tabulated the fight against corruption? No, they're not. The police are supposed to arrest those responsible every day. This should be done systematically, not to be aimed at political promotion of the ministry or some political option or manipulation of citizens, to create an illusion that there is some kind of fight against corruption. If you wanted to fight it, Mr. Minister, you would have adopted the Property Origin Act, which you have announced since 2012, but you gave up on it because you would probably have reached those who exercise power today in Serbia. I invite you to propose that law. We will support it, that since 2000, the origin of the assets of all those who have dealt with politics has been examined, but it does not suit you, because then you will not be able to spread lies to the opposition about some thefts, about some crimes that have worked through tabloids that are close to the ruling regime, but you are introducing a system. You don't fit the system, you're comfortable with the power of the individual. When we talk about police and police officers, they are professionals who do their job with honor and integrity until politics gets involved and until you, led by political interests, give them orders on what to do. One excellent example of this is that of Samamala, where you show that Serbian citizens cannot be sure, that they are safe and have equal treatment. If you're going to this day, there's the Director of Police, you haven't told anyone who ordered the police officers at the police station not to respond to the applications because someone's deprived of freedom, someone's facilities are being torn down, so what should we talk about? Mr. Minister, I'm talking about law enforcement. How do you ask others to respect the law when you in the Ministry get non-transparent 710 cars damage for 700 million from your political partner or member of the SNS, who is the current mayor, and the director of Auto Cačka, and explain that this is some special public procurement? Furthermore, when we talk about the war on the mob that you published at the press conference, the famous, after the murder of a certain Salta Mutavi, if I recall correctly, nothing happened, Mr. Minister. There are no results other than cases such as Jelena Marjanovic, the Jajinci case, the Cosmajac case, which serve only for media promotion, and 68 murders have occurred in Serbia since 2012, only 5.9% of them have been resolved. That's the result of the ministry's work. So that's what I'm talking about, when I say that there are no institutions, but only politically motivated works in state institutions. That's why I'm asking you ministers, both you and the police director -- are you aware that Mr. Dragan Markovic reported on Sunday that some cars, jeeps, no license plates are circulating Bora and coming out to make an insight, that they have received an answer that the police have no available resources to come out and make an insight on that day, that only Monday will it be possible to do so? So no one responded on that application. If so, tell me, what were those 15 cars, jeeps, no plates, in Boro? The People's Party will insist, Mr. Minister, although you probably don't need to reintroduce a ban on public commenting on unfair court proceedings, to prevent what's happening today, to arrest the media and the tabloids, to judge them, to decide who's guilty and who isn't. Also, we will fight and ask for the adoption of the law on the origin of the property, since it is clearly not appropriate for you. With tabloidisation, press conferences, special shows, you won't solve a single murder, Mr. Minister, which I was talking about and standing here in official statistics. That way, it just keeps collapsing the institution of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29126	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29127	Absolutely false, mostly. So, it's hard for me to answer all this stuff that doesn't matter, but to start with an interesting phenomenon. I must draw attention to both the citizens of Serbia and the MPs. You had a chance to see that a number of MPs who say and start very theatrically, that they didn't have time and don't have time to talk about these laws, and they would say a lot about these laws, but they don't have time to talk about them, and then in their time they don't say a word about the law. So they don't touch the essence of one law, and if they were very ignorant of trying it, they were not doing well. It was not very well founded in some knowledge, it seems there was not a lot of effort to read it even, even if some of the laws have been in parliament since August. Watch out for August of the month. Not that it was time to read, they could have round tables, take part in public debates. Neither did they appear for public debate, nor did they come, but then they say they hold political lessons that have nothing to do with the basis of the truth. In fact, here it must be understood, I hope that the National Assembly, at least the MPs who are here, will understand and accept that since October 2013, the police can arrest someone by order of the prosecutor. He can't arrest someone on his own unless he's caught in a felony. So, first of all, people have to figure it out. I prescribed myself, by passing the 2016 law, as interior minister, that the interior minister could not conduct a pre-criminal procedure, or that he could give the police a warrant to arrest someone. That's what the D.A. does. While these gentlemen were in power, they decided politically. I know, it's psychology. You know, people think how they would, and how they did, so they try to paint it on someone else. They arrested, 10,000 people, 500, here. It was all wonderful, democracy of flowers, sweetness, that was great, and then, of course, the Republic of Serbia will for the next 100 years to pay those people who have been released. So, arrested without proof. I'm sorry, here, I'm giving you a chance, check from April 28, 2014 when I became Minister of the Interior, although I say, police arrests when the D.A. estimates that he should be arrested, from April 28, 2014 until today, how many have been legally released for large crimes that have been arrested in police actions. Let's see who these people are, who was justly freed, because there's a lot of talk, let's see who's freed, who the court has released and said-- this man is freed, not guilty? Could there have been such cases? Maybe a couple. (Zoran Zivkovic: Karic. Mishkovic. ) Those arrested from 28 April 2014 until today. I can't answer for a period before that, I wasn't the Home Secretary. So what's interesting, too, in the fight against corruption. In the previous period, we had Karic, Miskovice, various people who were in different ways involved in court proceedings for which it was unclear where these court proceedings were, whether there were any charges at all. What happened to Miskovic? What happened to him? Where was he at the time of the previous authorities? What was he doing? He was setting up governments. He influenced who would be prime ministers, which jobs the firm would get. What happened here? There was no fight against corruption until 2012, none. So they didn't do anything serious, they just fed those tycoons, and as the people got poorer, those tycoons got richer. Among other things, and Dragan Gilas, of course. As for the convictions for money laundering, today we only have in the previous year 12 final, judicial convictions for money laundering with confiscated property. When the hell did you people have that verdict to launder money? Who? What are those people's names? Twelve convictions in the previous year, one of which is a predicate crime committed by crime in Italy, but you don't read it. I know you don't care. You don't care, because if you're interested in the essence, someone's gonna take care of it, take a look, take a serious analysis. No, I don't. This is where she needs a political co-op. In Bor, it's a complete fiction, but it's a complete fiction. I asked for a report when I heard. The police went out 10 times. You know, just because someone reports it doesn't mean it's like that. People go out in the field, they can lock this or that. We wrote the reports, sent it to the prosecutor, but that's the easiest thing, that's the flora that exists – we saw the black jeep moving. Is it normally forbidden to move around in a jeep town? If that jeep doesn't have a plate, all right, it's gonna be stopped by the traffic police, let's see, let's find out, let's see why there's no license plate, they'll write him a ticket. (Alexander Martinovic: Zivkovic has such a jeep. ) (Zoran Zivkovic: Chibe. ) Many have such jeeps, I have seen myself, many have such jeeps, but as far as the police are concerned, at least at the time I'm at the head of the MUP, the police stop every vehicle. There is no more of that carriage that no one can stop, the traffickers are afraid that anyone will lower the window of Audi or Mercedes, curse their mother and ask them that famous sentence – do you know who I am? It's gone. Now stop the Mercedes and the Audi and the jeep. They're gonna show respect for a traffic cop. The media. I'm sorry that the previous speaker announced that the media was shutting down, that freedom of public word was extinguished. It is a direct announcement that they will decide what the media can or cannot write. I'm shocked by this statement, really, I'm telling you. If we're fighting for a society that needs to go to the European Union, that you determine to the media what they're going to write, it's scandalous. To be, I know they're used to censorship, but this is about you determining what the media and can't or can't write, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. I'll tell you something else, show me a medium that he's known in the last three years about some arrest in advance? To show me the front page or text in the newspaper where he says – he'll be arrested and that one. What they have announced – there will be arrests; behold, I tell you, while I am a minister, there will be arrests every day. It's not a matter of me announcing, it's a police matter. Prosecution that the warrant, the police arrest, it's not a very special mind, it's just being done in a serious way and today the police are arresting criminals anywhere. The fact that many people thought that when they deal with crime, so they go into politics and then they say, "Don't arrest this guy, he's a politician, it's a political persecution." No, we don't arrest him for being a politician, we arrest him for stealing, and because the prosecution said so. The prosecution says to the police -- arrest this man, we think he has enough evidence. If he's guilty, the court will decide. The court will say whether he's guilty or not, but we've already got a lot of first-degree convictions of the convicts already, a large number of those who've been putting their hand in the hands of the people, we've got a lot of convictions. They've already turned up against those, well, all the innocents have been arrested, but the court still decides they're guilty. They're not exactly innocent. Since the court has decided, they'll have to answer for it and we'll put it on, I'll get you a list of all those who've been convicted of acts that have been burdened since 2014, so I'll bring you some work, next time I'll bring you what actions they've been convicted of, so you can see what the court finds guilty of. Because when the court says it's someone's fault, it's his fault. You might like it or not like it. So, I'm worried, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about these announcements of the asphyxiation of freedom of the media. Please never let that happen. We can like the media or not like them, like it or not like what they're going to write, but we can't dictate what they're going to write. There's no freedom here. Serbia is a democratic country where no one will dictate to the media what they write. After all, you can see that, go to any kiosk, read the 20 newspapers that are there, see 10 TVs, see what they say about each of us. It's democracy. They have the right to do that. Of course, who doesn't like something or thinks he's wrongly accused, has the right to judicial protection, and that's the normal, same democratic fluid that's worth in Europe, which is worth in America, worth everywhere in the world. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29128	Right to replication, to mention the party, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four notes total, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, yes, certainly the basis is the mention of the party and the first thing I want to say is, I really don't understand, I really don't understand that some of them here don't realize that they have much more urgent business now than pointless re-conceived fiction, false accusations at the expense of the SNS. Much more important and urgent work has to do with themselves and their impressive results, here at the level of Belgrade's city the other day. Losing more than 130,000 votes in just a year is a fantastic success. On this occasion, I congratulate you, but I think it's much more urgent for you to do an analysis of your fantastic result. So, just a year ago, without the participation of the famous yellow tycoon Đilas Dragana, Jankovic, Jeremic and who was then involved in their joint venture, won what, 280,000 votes in Belgrade about. Now it seems that Gilas Dragan is so popular that he has managed to contribute only negatively by 130,000 votes. It wouldn't be bad for someone to wonder about that result and maybe do it instead of SNS. Second note. What are our results in the vault we're talking about now? Here, just a few numbers, just to make things clear, if necessary. A reduction in the number of total crimes by 8.1%, a decrease in the number of crimes of general crime by 8%, a decrease in the number of most serious crimes against life and bodies, and there are percentages of excellent, and if someone is hard to do their job as a MP, I will give him the last three-month report on the ministry's work to read it, if he doesn't hate to read it. However, for example, The Savamala report, made by their coalition partner Jankovic, shows today, has not read only a few pages, so this is probably too big a job for them. At the very end, when we talk about what's going on at the level of fighting corruption. It was Angela Merkel who said that the results in that domain are impressive, and I quote - impressive, but if someone doesn't know because, among other things, they don't know who Angela Merkel is, and what he showed right during this campaign, and I understand that, but it doesn't justify him for those 130,000 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29130	Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replicating Minister. Minister, can you replicate? Well, you have no right. (Miroslav Aleksic: I was misread. He interpreted you well. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29131	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a two-year MP in this House, here, for almost two years. For two years, we have been listening from members of the collapse and the collapse of the opposition, all the worst on SNS, all the worst on Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic. For two years, I have suffered and listened to the worst possible insults and nonsense on account and those citizens, almost 60%, who supported the president of our party, the president of Serbia and our political party. For two years, we have been listening to the worst defamations and lies possible at the expense of the family of Alexander Vukic and our MPs, ministers, and the minority of every man in Serbia who dares to vote for the SNS. Now it's time for us to take a little time here, see who's who, who's who, who's who, who lives on today, who's how he's funding his campaign, and his accounts are in the blockade, who's actually living in this Serbia. Well, we see that anxiety is growing on the side of certain members of the opposition. For what? You remember how the Serbian economy functioned in their golden time of blooming their pockets, their private interests, how they built villas, how some of them are driving " sharks", black jeeps and others today, so they tell us about some jeeps. I don't know any SNS MPs who bought a jeep, a shark, who has a villa that has millions in its accounts, I don't know that, but we know you. And we don't just know where the money came from? Don't ask. Well, I'd be on your side, so I'd be hanging out like a little mouse in a hole, not to mention the law on the origin of the property. Well, that just doesn't work for you. It doesn't work for your tycoons. As counterpart Orlic said, you lost 130,000 votes in Belgrade in a year. People, do you think the people are stupid? And you keep on talking the same way. You live in the 1990s. The same text you've been repeating since 1991 until today. A smart man learns something from mistakes, and stupid, of course, no. He's moving on, he's going on principle, he's going hard and he's going right through the wall. Keep up the good work, and you should go like that. That's where I congratulate you on your principle. The citizens, and I congratulate the president of our city committee, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, and the interior minister on the great victory, the exceptional victory in the Belgrade elections. But that's not where the demagogy won. That's not where the election campaign won. We did not achieve this great number of votes and absolute victory because we went to the election campaign, so we promised the citizens something, but we told people in the election campaign, and we showed them both the roads and the sidewalks and the homes of health and kindergartens and everything that you didn't do, everything you put in your pockets and lied that one day you would do. And the music fountain, the one that you were ashamed of when someone else did, all of which we showed to the citizens, and "Belgrade on water," and told the people -- you see, this is what we did in the previous four years, nobody got richer, but you are more real and wages and pensions, and you will be bigger by the end of this year and you will live even better, which people see and recognize based on the results that our party has in these past four years, leading both the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia. You said we'd hide behind the president of our party, Alexander Vukic. We're not hiding behind anyone. We stand by Alexander Vukic, all together, all SNS MPs and Serbian Government ministers stand by Alexander Vukic. We're behind our results, behind what you don't have to stand behind. Of course, that fear and panic in your ranks is because the combination is gone. The fight against corruption and crime in Serbia began in 2012, starting with those driving sharks, jeeps, those playing and bathing in Schillerovo, those whose investors were the only criminals and drug dealers in Serbia for 12 years. They were the only ones in Serbia who made roads. Remember "Difens Road", remember Ljubishe Buhe Chumeta, remember the rest of their Mr. Rats, Mr. Fool, Mr. Legion, and all their other heroes who later became their enemies. Of course, tycoons will never lead Serbia or rule Serbia again. In that sense, of course, all those laws that are proposed today deserve praise, certainly, and there should not be too many words to be spent. Yesterday, Minister Stefanovic gave us all this nicely here and explained it well. We have heard from the authorized, and Maria Obradovic and our other MPs, all the details that the public in Serbia needs to know, but we also need to take off the gloves once here and show that we as SNS MPs have nothing to be ashamed of in front of you, because you are the worst political scum in the history of Serbia that existed, and as such you ended up in these elections with 0%, 1% and 2%. You won't even exist on the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29132	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I had every right to answer to Minister Stefanovic for what he said. I don't know what you're afraid of, and why don't you give me the right that's defined in this Rules of Procedure? Why are you afraid of us who won only 19% in Belgrade, but the votes of Belgrade and not the voices of people across Serbia, which you brought here by bus? I don't know what the problem is with answering Minister Stefanovic in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with this Rules of Procedure... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29134	Comrade Alexic, in order not to waste any more time, you asked the minister and he answered you. Whether you like those answers or not, that's your problem. (Miroslav Aleksic: Wrong interpretation. ) Exactly so, but the chairman determines whether the speaker is misread or not, not you. (Miroslav Aleksic: You are breaking the Rules of Procedure. You have a 27.) I don't break the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29135	I thank you, Chairman. Given that the mandated representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, our comrade Vladan Zagradinin, has expressed our parliamentary group's position on the set of laws we are discussing today, I can only support this position and again state that these legislative proposals will support the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs in the day of the vote. My discussion will be about one of the laws of this body of law we're discussing, which is the bill on the national DNA register. Mr. Minister, today and yesterday, in terms of these laws, a lot of arbitrary, flat-rate, incorrect information and views have been made, with some constructive proposals that I personally support from the point of view of the profession, given that this law cannot be commented in any way without touching what makes it an essential part of the evidence, which is a case before the judicial and public prosecutor's authorities. To be honest and open – this law is not perfect and it is not fully defined, but thanks to your ministry, this is finally the beginning of an orderly state that has lasted for years. That's why, no doubt, this way, if we can even call it a pilot project, it deserves attention, and in any case support. Why? Because, regardless of all the concerns, and perhaps somewhat justified yesterday, we have a situation to finally establish a single record without which no pre-criminal proceedings can be effectively conducted, no criminal proceedings, no decision based on the evidence provided in those proceedings, provided that this decision is fair, legal and based on the same evidence. There was a comment yesterday that, in any case, I hope also merits your attention, because you commented on it, and that is, whether to delete from this record, from this register, the data for the person against whom the criminal proceedings were conducted, which had the identity of the suspect, so that the ID turned into the identification of the defendant and ultimately, the epilogue of the court case was a liberating verdict, which means that there was no evidence to establish criminal responsibility or guilt. Do you delete? Of course I do, but how? Our proposal, Parliament Groups of the Socialist Party of Serbia, all of us, yes, to delete, but based on a sublegal act or regulations that you could bring and I don't think that's a bad idea, but there are a few traps to be taken care of. It is not disputed that, after a judicial ruling, one such information is deleted. But, Mr. Minister, what if a request for a repeat criminal case is filed, and a request for a retrial is granted, so a guilty verdict is found, and we have previously deleted one piece of information? So it is a very sensitive question when and in what way and under what conditions to delete. Because, by repeating the procedure, the same one who was released can be blamed again and can be convicted with justice. And then it seems to me that we need to search a highly sensitive field for the right way, the right way, how to store this data, that data that we don't need to be erased. As for those political thesis or attitudes to collect political points, I feel free to say they don't stand, because nobody here mentioned the so-called. genetic profile. As each of us has a unique home number of citizens, so based on DNA analysis as a forensic method, each of us has its own unique genetic profile. And he remains immutable. It remains immutable as the papal lines on the hand, such as many special features or characteristics of each man individually. If so, and so, then we have no reason to in no way escape from any unfortunately accurate evidence procedure through the DNA profile. Why? First, this procedure determines several facts – who was present at the crime scene, who are the chronic witnesses. And who did the crime? Well, the perpetrator of the crime is not determined by the DNA profile, it's just one of the evidence. There is a lot of evidence next to a DNA profile that will be carried out and, as part of the complete evidence process, determine or release the potential perpetrator of the crime, or accused, whether he is guilty or not. But what citizens need to know – there is no evidence with greater evidence power, with greater evidence capacity than DNA profiles. Why? Because it is based on biological traces such as saliva, blood, sperm, hair, bones, etc. Remembrances, some of these biological traces on the scene can survive for decades after committing a crime, for decades. So, it's very important that this is what the esteemed colleague has drawn attention to – how to identify clues, how to provide clues, how to use these clues later on, whether in terms of eradicating or collecting certain material on the spot, and then, through DNA and genetic profiles, to determine who was on the scene, who except those who were there could be on the spot and all of this could be entered into one database that will be stored and based on which we will later be able to use the same data for potential suspects in some future period. These are facts that no one can question. There are certain problems that are conscious of the ministry, and you, and we ourselves, which is that despite such a precise evidence methodology, there is not always the possibility that with 100% accuracy there is an appropriate fact. Here is an example – what about identical twins? In Serbia, such a case did not happen, but it happened in the United States and Germany, where it is difficult to identify a genetic profile. Fortunately or unfortunately, identical twins do not have much, but it is doubtless that they can appear in the evidence process and make it difficult to prove it. In any case, we have to go from a fact that is indisputable, which no one will question, which is that as long as we have a data register through biological parameters, through analysis, we are sure that in some future period we will have a simplified evidence procedure and in some way simplify the determination of decisive facts for judgment in criminal proceedings. In the end, my people, it is not the ministry that decides which evidence is to be carried out, but it is the court's decision, and in the previous criminal proceedings or pre-criminal proceedings, it is the prosecutor's decision, or an order for operational action to determine it by the police. So, in a particular situation, we have a law that we need, which is necessary, a law that simply represents, as I said at the very beginning, the beginning of an orderly state with the expectation that it will be even better. In the expectation that this law will continue to improve, I have no doubt that it will improve, and we in the SPS parliamentary group do not doubt that it will be far better than it is now, it will certainly come to life and have our support. In the end, I want, like all of us here, to share the opinion of all of us, to congratulate the ladies and you on the holiday of March 8th, but with one wish - not to be this day when you will only have the attention, dedication and love, but to have it always and to have those of whom you really expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29136	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29137	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, like all speakers, congratulate today's holiday on ladies from both executive and legislative authorities, and say that on today we actually need to look back and see how much women's situation in Serbia is improving, and the truth is that the situation is improving, that the direction of change is very good, but that every day, both as MPs and as people of executive authority and as people within our families, we need to make sure that this position comes to the level of what kind of woman, for example, enjoys Scandinavian countries. A word, two, and a union of laws. For the first time, we can say that unification makes a lot of sense and that it's much better than some of the previous ones and that we've thrown out the Traffic Safety Act and left it in a special debate, and that we have at least a million experts in our country who would like to listen to this debate, I think that we would come to a normal unification of laws that are really interlinked and treat one area. So that's one, as I would say, shift to the better in that area. Let's move on to things that are of principle nature, because we'll probably discuss the details in a time when it comes to that order. If the path that Serbia started to look at through some numbers, and the numbers are always important. The magic numbers of Serbia would be 23, 24, 27, only appear on 32nd and 35th. I suppose 80% of the MPs who support that trip know. These are chapters in Eurointegration that will be Serbia's biggest pain and the biggest challenge to make our country much better. This set of laws, which in principle do not have something to reject in principle, contribute to making a very long list of chapters 23 and 24 at least a little shorter, and that is something that essentially deserves to be welcomed. There's still a lot of work here, a lot of hard work. Time, if we believe that 2025 is a realistic deadline, it leaks slowly and needs to be used maximum good and a solution to some of the issues, which here the Law on Asylum, the Law on Foreigners, the Law on the State Border and some other laws, which are mentioned here, solves, are a good step and it is not at all controversial. What we have some problems with is the practice of implementing some laws, but when it comes to the issues that the laws are treating, and some have been very popular in the public as an asylum crisis, we can say that you can only act better in practice if you have better laws and it is nothing controversial. What remains as a question is that we try to improve our practice and that we do not have the things that we had that were really hard to remove, for example, if you had, as I would say, trefiking in the Trefiking with Pakistani asylum seekers who had defacto dealing with human trafficking in Serbia and committed certain crimes. It's not like it was three years ago now, but it's one serious reminder that remains that such things don't happen again. Also, when it comes to the law relating to the treatment of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia, the law is a step forward. I know that the issue of issuing visas for the Republic of Serbia is not a question of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, there is a part where we have one shared responsibility, and what we unfortunately have as a practice when it comes to countries that are not very important to us is that sometimes it is extremely difficult and almost impossible to get a Serbian visa, because abroad, our representatives are probably afraid that they are not making a mistake in approving visas to challenge some security problem often comes up with simply waiting for the deadline to go out of date and that the applicant does not get an answer for Serbia's visa. It's not that often, but sometimes families can't get together because they're afraid of making a mistake. And that's a question for one, as I would say, some now like to say action teams or multi-resour groups that don't happen, because we need to be, as our country's policy has been declared, which is open to the whole world, which has good co-operation with everyone, and which takes maximum care of its security and security. It's something I think is important to get rid of. Also, one thing to point to on time, and I'm very sorry to say that we now have laws that are good, which are long written, that's true, and that through amendments can be used to be accepted by everyone, that the time to argue instead of explaining the benefits of the law, is used for free-style topics. Of course, it's the right of every MP, but I think it's a shame. It's a shame we're introducing something that is revolutionary in Serbia, but for a good part of our people, it's controversial. So not all people in this country can be like that to accept things that are advanced and that will benefit everyone and there is fear. One of the fears that people have right now are DNA registers and one of the things, if we have a sense of responsibility for our citizens and so we achieve maximum good results in the areas where we all work, is to do a campaign and explain what it is, so that we don't get into a situation, a crazy situation that we have now with vaccines, where you have a whole movement of people who are neither from the profession, nor know anything about it, and they have managed to bring back some infectious diseases that weren't in Serbia. I don't want it to happen with DNA, I don't want it to happen like we have a controversy about joining the World Trade Organisation because we have discussions about GMOs that don't take into account all scientific findings and then let one thing that matters to Serbia, although the WTO is somewhat, how do we say, is not such a promising port, but we are one of the few countries that haven't entered that port and we're late and what's worst, we're going to have a problem accepting some things that aren't even a problem. The task of the MPs, but the task of the government is to inform the citizens and campaign on such matters. Not to talk about other things, especially what doesn't exist now, I mean, I'm really sure, essentially disagreeing to say – these laws are no good. It's just not true. The laws are written in principle well. One question that remains for me is and I think it is absolutely not a good practice is if we agree that the laws are good in principle, the mini is not clear – how 1300 amendments appeared and I really can't understand either of my fellow opposition colleagues, nor of my colleagues from the authorities who make all together make a philibaster in the Assembly of Laws that are good. It's absolutely not a condition that's normal. Instead of discussing the details of explaining good individual things and letting them go, and you have announced from the authorities that you will accept amendments that are good and I welcome them indeed, whoever wrote them, that I have eight hours of not knowing what in the Assembly. If we really want to be responsible for our citizens, nicely called to the College, to have the opposition give up, which has submitted a thousand amendments, from believing that these laws are no good, because if you submit a thousand amendments, you claim that the government is not doing the filibister itself. Simply, those hours can be used much better, and if nothing else, I will again appeal to the presentation of a distinguished colleague who said – the purpose of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to inform citizens. So let's inform them of these laws. There's no big misunderstanding. That's what should be a smart decision at the end of this day, to withdraw the amendments from both sides. We from Enough have not endured a bunch of amendments because simply these are not things that are incorrigible, like, in the budget where we had a lot of things that we had objections to. It's just not the situation here, and it's not supposed to be done. Of course, freedom is, of course, when you get most you can do whatever you want and the opposition can handle not 1,000 but 10,000 amendments, but it really doesn't make any sense. In the end, there are some other things I would like to point out that are important precisely for informing the public. In public, for example, it was about the Asylum Act and some other laws that created a big name that immigrants would flood Serbia and that we would become some kind of immigrant tank. I know it's a great topic. There's no better subject than to point at nonexistent enemies. This topic is used, to be honest with you, by both the government and the opposition. That's the easiest thing to do, hit on a nonexistent enemy. (The People's Messenger throws out of place. Come on, relax, buddy. A number of asylum applications have been submitted in Serbia, which is not large at all and an even smaller number of applications have been approved. All the demands that are approved to be collected now are the number of emigrants measured in hundreds and there is no danger that immigrants flood Serbia, that we be any kind of reservoir. Our reaction in Serbia was human and good, we weren't like the northern neighbours, we were building walls, we were making crazy, we had both human and good treatment. What I would say is that the problem is that immigrants, at least some of them don't want to stay in Serbia. That says, I am aware that we are a poor country and that it is better to go to social aid in Germany or Sweden. Nothing new. But that's also saying that those entrepreneurs among them haven't seen a chance to stay in Serbia and that they might start their new business here. It's a message that was sent to us unequivocally. In the first wave, we had a lot of people who fit in culturally, because they share things that might not be too important to me or most people, but they share faith, belonging to one circle, let's say to a European, Middle Eastern who didn't want to stay in Serbia, and they were highly qualified, they spoke foreign languages, they had their business and careers in Syria. It is a reminder that we are doing reforms faster, that we are also making laws in other areas that will be in principle as good as these current laws, which will be indicators of success for us, people who make certain decisions directly. And that's it. I have nothing more to add. Simply, when something is in principle good, it does not need to be criticised, but that is why my application is calling for reason and opposition and authority to make in particular those things that these laws really are accepted, and that these eight hours are really not used to things that are more important to other policy areas than to discuss in particular the laws in the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29138	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29139	Thank you, Mr. Stevanović, on behalf of the MUP team who has worked on these laws, and thank you for the critical reference to the parts of the laws that can be better and we will certainly try to work on that and what Mr. Jovanovic said in the previous presentation, and what you said, that these things should be removed, because this is really a living thing. I agree with you to say this part about migration, we've had 586 asylum applications from 2014 to today, many of which have never been able to be processed until the end, because these people have left our country. We talked to a number of people who went through our country, who were highly educated, who could fit into our society, even some of them were Christians who came from Syria, I say Christians, they were equally acceptable to us and those who were not Christians, who were Muslim or any other religion, but they preferred to join their families and find their haven in Germany. Of course, the economic factor was the most significant factor and we talked to them to see if any of them would stay in our country, because a number of people were going to seek asylum. We also had to do projections, of course, to see how we were going to frame these people, how we were going to provide for them everything we needed. However, we today have about 3,500 migrants in Serbia's territory who are eager to leave. They don't want to stay in Hungary either, they don't want to stay in Greece, they don't want to stay in Italy, they don't want to be in much more developed countries than our own. They have target Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, literally so they say, some of them and France and that's what it is. Of course, we have to work to raise standards, to improve the economic situation because of our citizens, of course, because of our citizens, but to ensure that our country is more competitive, because in terms of the labour market attracting capital, attracting people, attracting everything that makes the country more advanced will certainly be an increasingly important thing in the competition throughout Europe. We should try to attract people equally from Poland and Hungary, as well as Syria or any other Middle East country that has knowledge. We need people who have knowledge, why should we give it up? If someone's a computer genius, it was a wonderful family with a ten-year-old boy who was incredibly talented at painting, it's really one of the few people. Fortunately, if such people could stay in our country, it would enrich our country. I think that's a message we all need to understand. Thank you for a good analysis of what we did and thank you for saying on behalf of the team of people who did this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29140	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29141	Thank you, Your Honor. Honored ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia would not have such political stability, would not have had economic growth and would not have such a leadership potential if it were not so safe and, of course, in a large part of the MUP headed by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic does not take account and does not face the biggest security policy challenges both globally and regionally, but also domestically. We are witnessing that perhaps in the time in which we live, all countries are faced with challenges such as international terrorism, such as cyber threats, such as fighting for corporate security and every other kind of security, and we can conclude that security and security levels have been probed by son quo non-modernization and development, hence the development and advancement of a country. What is the fruit and product of this security situation, the fruit and the product of political stability that we have today is the news of how many days ago the German Continental has invested and opened 500 jobs and we almost have such news every day. Serbia has more than two billion euros in foreign direct investment in 2017. In Serbia, dozens of jobs are being opened daily and this is the direct consequence of the security situation, and I feel free to say, Serbia is a leader in the region and when it comes to facing any kind of security challenge. Of course, as a representative of the majority in parliament, I will continue to support this kind of policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this commitment to the MUP to keep our country safe and to keep our country politically stable. Until just a few years ago, seven-eight years ago, drug cartels celebrated in Belgrade clubs one billion gains, as in 2009, 2010, it was Euros. Today, the oil cartel is gone, and today the remains of the drug cartel as mice have fled, they are gone, they have fled Serbia because the MUP and all those institutions dealing with the security policy are running an unfavourable and uncompromising policy against organised crime and, of course, corruption. Also, for us from the SDPS is very important and this set of laws that we have on the agenda today is important because of our EU accession, because of the dynamics of our Eurointegration, because of Chapter 24 and this is a very large contribution from the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to achieving our country's strategic goal, which is Serbia's full membership in the EU, it is the modernisation of our country, it is a better life for our country's citizens, and the prerequisite for all of this is the security of our country and the security of our citizens. I would also like to note one fact that has marked this debate since yesterday and today, which is that almost none of the representatives of the opposition in parliament have said that the bill is bad, none of them have said that they are unacceptable and it is good because it is understood that these are reform laws and that they are in the best interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would also point out that the laws that treat foreigners, the law that treats integrated border management, are in fact the pillar of our country's defence and the pillar of our country's security and our citizens' security. In 2016, Interior Ministry Minister Stefanovic faced one of the biggest challenges that such a small country as Serbia has experienced in the past few decades. The migrant crisis, the minister mentioned yesterday, over 1.500,000 people went through Serbia, almost without an incident bigger. They have been treated humanely, treated as humans, and therefore our country has received praise from both the US and the EU, from our partners around the world because we have shown that Serbia is a country that is ready and knows how to manage crises, that Serbia is ready and has the capacity to ensure stability and to ensure a peaceful passage and all that is needed in accordance with the civilization norms and with all the UN, the Council of Europe and all relevant institutions for all those who pass through Serbia and who are affected by war on the territory of Levanta, that is Syria and Iraq, and who are affected by terrorist activities in those countries. Also, I have to point out a very important fact that since 2014, we have a very small number of car accidents. This is about the Traffic Safety Act, I would especially mention in 2014, 17% is less car accidents, and this is a matter of one strategic approach to the government, building the infrastructure of the strategic approach of the ministry itself to provide a legal framework and such laws that does not come to this. Of course, dozens of people are at stake who lose their lives a year and we can't talk about any material compensation, but expert analyses show that each of these lost lives is literally costing an immeasurably one country. It costs us because we're losing our people, we're losing money, we're losing GDP, and it's very important that this trend of reducing these accidents continues through the construction of infrastructure, both soft and hard, and through the stronger punishment of those who are jeopardizing our roads, who are endangering people and, of course, all those involved in traffic. Since I am going to leave some time with my esteemed colleague Branislav Jovanovic, the SDPS will be very pleased to vote in the voting day for these bill proposals and, of course, I am using the opportunity as a representative of the coalition partner to congratulate SNS City Committee President Nebojsa Stefanovic on a brilliant victory in the Belgrade elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29142	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29143	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished ministers with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the last three days have been before us a set of laws whose proposal is the MUP, of course part of this is announced in an exposé presented by the prime minister in this respected home, during the government's election. It represents a continuity with the work of previous governments headed by today's President Aleksandar Vukic. Before I say anything about the proposed legal solutions, I think it is correct, and primarily for the sake of the public in Serbia, to present the data of the previous work of the MUP and to make one comparison with what was done by 2014, with what was done from 2014 to today. In this regard, I will only have a few data, so that the Serbian citizens have insight into what the MUP is doing and realize that these legal solutions are in fact just a continuation of a successful work done by the MUP. As far as crimes are concerned, their number in the previous period from 2014 to today has been reduced by approximately 9%. That in absolute numbers means 1,900 less crimes at the level of the year. The number of murders has been reduced by 15%. The rape crime by 27%, with the percentage of the lighting of these parts at around 92%. As we know, Serbia has faced a migrant crisis, more than a million people who have passed through Serbia have been controlled, an asylum office has been formed. As for the material equipment of the MUP, it should be noted that 21,500 uniforms were purchased for Serbian police, 1,200 sets of uniforms for the gendarmes, for the police brigade about 500 sets of uniforms, 3,200 pants when it comes to border police, etc. That these are not only the estimates of us SNS MPs and the ruling coalition at all, says the Interpol Secretariat-General Commission has highly assessed the work of the National Central Bureau of Interpol in Belgrade, where we have been named by the Commission as the ten most desirable partners in the world. I think it's an absolutely objective assessment by the relevant international institution. So much for what's been done in the past. As far as these laws are concerned, I'll base myself on two. They tried our distinguished opposition colleagues to say they didn't have time, that the session was called up quickly, but still for public service and for accuracy, for example. The Law on Citizenship reached the National Assembly on 24 November 2017, the Law on Borders, Border Control and the Law on Foreigners on 2 December 2017. We know that they spent their time in a Belgrade campaign trying to reach people's money, of course when they failed in that intention, trying to get the money in the last days without overcoming the blackmail of Serbian football players. In fact, the Asylum Act itself is to adapt our legislative framework to a developed part of Europe. They also tried to play it as an object that would serve to settle migrants and God knows who in Serbia, but it does accuracy, a little more data. For what it's worth, let Serbia assess for itself. In 2017, 6,195 persons expressed their intention to apply for asylum. Expressing your intention doesn't mean you'll do the job. In addition to the intention, the request was submitted by 235 people, at the end of three positive solutions, which means three people received asylum in 2017. So much for populating migrants, Arabs, Asians and God knows who. What is important, not only does every law serve asylum seekers, i.e. in this area. Every law in this area serves primarily the citizens of Serbia, because it will serve to better profile those who come and go through Serbia and thus contribute to the security of our citizens who live in the Republic of Serbia all the time. However, if you ask me, the two laws that have the most, to say, benefits for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the widest layer of the population is the Law on Citizenship and the Transport Safety Act. The law on citizenship is a really big thing, I don't think so much has been said so far, so I'm going to try a little bit, primarily for our citizens and do, as my colleague Stevanovic said, informing the public, to say more about it. Namely, if you look at the current solution to the Law on Citizenship, each of us and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia could take his citizenship credentials according to the place of registration. With this legal solution, citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to take over the belief of citizenship in any municipality in the Republic of Serbia, which means that someone who was born in Leskovac and lives in my Subotica will not have to leave, as so far, for the assurance of citizenship in Leskovac and that is what is a great savings and a great benefit to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Another big problem is that all of our citizens who have submitted the application for citizenship to diplomatic and consular representations around the world, and of course most in the region, in Republika Srpska, Montenegro, Macedonia and Croatia, were all now enrolled in the home books in the city of Belgrade. According to the legal solution, all of them were able to assume their citizenship confidence in the municipality of Stari Grad, since the municipality was appointed by the Belgrade City Assembly, according to the legal solution. You can imagine what kind of problems this has caused for employees in the Old Town municipality, but also hundreds of thousands of people who today are citizens of our country living across the Drina or perhaps in the south of Montenegro, Macedonia, etc. So what is important to them, this legal solution will be able to take over its citizenship confidence anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will facilitate the work of people who work in the Old Town and shorten their travel time. For those who had a ID card in the Republic of Serbia, these are mostly old people, who did not have citizenship, were born in one of the former SFRY's republics, we reduce, let's say, torment and get a final solution to their problem. I won't be long as the Traffic Safety Act, I think it's too high to waste my words. Any legal solution that will contribute to having only one minor child injury, and not to say more, we SNS MPs will certainly support it. I'd like to see who's going to be against sanctioning red light, driving to reduce blood alcohol levels in the name of reducing problems and preserving life in Serbia, to reduce and better sanction fast driving through populated areas. As long as you go this way, we will certainly support the next legal solutions. In the end, Your Honor, I must tell you that the people only see and appreciate work and effort. Do not have any doubt that every work and every effort will be rewarded and that the punishment for every hatred will eventually come. You saw it on Sunday in the elections for the city of Belgrade, be sure it will be so in the future, and we, as MPs, will, above all, support these legislative proposals that you send before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29144	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momcilo Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, Mr. Minister with Associates, we have witnessed a large set of laws before us these days and discussed to a greater extent. Mr. Minister, I will talk mainly about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. You said on several occasions that it was a reform law and that it was a law that was passed in 2016, so that the law is one of the pro-European and pro-reform laws. However, you have changed, modified, or erased almost a third of those members. I believe that the headless pursuit of European standards invalidates the specificity of our police force, which, in my opinion, has been one of the best police in Europe in the last few decades. Since you are facing dozens of sublegal acts that you must bring in order to open Chapters 23 and 24, then we will look at our police, I am talking about the uniform police, that they will wear beards, that the alks will wear on their faces and all the things we are looking at right now in the European Union. I think we're going to lose that specificity of our police force, which, I repeat, is certainly one of the best police in Europe. The big and good thing is, Mr. Minister, my opinion is, unlike Nenada Chanka, that you left the emergency sector in the vault where it is concentrated and large resources and material and human and that the dilemma has been solved about it. It is also good that the status of firefighters, fire departments has been resolved and that firefighters have been granted police status, or increased, as you say, employment. This removes some things, because the work of both firefighters and this emergency sector is very difficult, risky and it's good that it's part of the police force with increased work experience. That's what I'm saying for the things that, in my opinion, you did well in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Objection. One of the biggest and most important objections is Article 43. Law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. He speaks of the early retirement of people who were engaged in special forces or on special assignments. You gave the framework so that people who turned 45 years of life and 15 years of training could retire. What about people who are over 20 years old and don't have 45 years of life? You know, in those elite units, specials go to young people in the '20s. Are they now punished for going to the police in 1997, 1998, as 18-year-olds or 20-year-olds, so they were in Kosovo at the worst time, a war if they survived, a caveman, did not turn 45 and can't retire to this Lex specialise. I think it's probably some mistake of your associates to sort of ignore these people compared to these. We have even given, the SRS, an amendment to that member and we believe that we should accept it, so that not all those who have crossed both Kosovo and the Cave High and War should not feel neglected, and probably by mistake the administration has been neglected. The next thing I'd like to talk about is extra police work. In the past 2016 law, you stated what the police should not do. You have now correctly determined that the police can at a time when they are not at work to do certain tasks and jobs that are not in conflict of interest, or in conflict with what is being done and in the police. At one point, I don't know which of the politicians said they wouldn't let the elite units work for companies like Delta Victoria and so on, which I think is wrong, because working in these companies, people work, talking about police officers, in white gloves, doing some security work, not getting in touch with criminals and some things that tempt them, in contrast, from jobs performed by night clubs, bars, and so on, where the police didn't want to, come in big contact with money, with drugs, with people suspicious, or criminal behavior, and not wanting to, they're getting into that society. There was in some way left out by the Director of Police, and by reading this law on alterations and additions, I saw that in very large affairs in some matters of consent and the position of the Director of Police was abandoned, so that the heads of the organisational units directly communicate with the minister, or the organisational unit through the cabinet of the minister. I think that's how a narrow circle of police directors, who should be, in my opinion, a dam between the party militia and the professional police. In my opinion, there can't be any act, no store, no law, or anything else to happen if he doesn't go through the Police Director's Office and he doesn't decide. He is operational and superior to all organisational units in the MUP portfolio. I would also like to point out that one of the sublegal acts is in the power of the minister, the behaviour of authorised officials towards minors. There you have stated that the regulations on conduct, i.e. the application of powers, are brought by the minister of police with the consent of the minister of justice. I think it's a mistake. This should require the consent and opinion of the prosecutor for minors and judges for minors. They are operatives, they are people who deal with minors and who will give good enough advice to the police minister to pass their sublegal act on how to apply authority to minors. I think it's kind of neglected, the work and role of the Director of Police, because the fact, Mr. Minister, that you can propose to the government without a competition the second term of the Director of Police. Does this mean that if he listens well, or works well, that he does not have to go to the competition, and the competition foresees choice and gives opportunity to other employees in that portfolio, prominent police officers, to do the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29146	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29147	First of all, I'd just like to look at a few things that you said, they refer to important things in our society, and I think that you and I both know why they're important, especially for these guys and women, of course, but, first of all, the guys, because they were incomparably larger numbers, who were members of special units and for which we predicted early retirement. Why did we define ourselves? We had to bring in some at some point, regardless of what it is, of course, a double key, I can't retire someone without his consent, nor can he only be retired by his own desire, if he doesn't meet the general conditions for retirement, without my consent, therefore, even under this law. So a double key and a member must be agreed by the minister. Why did we bring it in? We've been introduced because there's always something called the need for service. I can't get the police to lose all experienced people and all those who have experience that could use in doing these complex jobs, to retire, or to go, say, to the jobs that will be for them, even though those who don't have enough years of training will have a certain reduction in pension, to those who lack a few years it's significant to them, and if they go so young, they'll definitely find some extra job that they're going to do afterwards, who, with their pension, are additional income for them and their families, which is completely understandable. But sometimes we need to keep some of these people in our units, because they're simply, the spine, the pillar, the systems of those units, and as long as they meet the conditions that are prescribed for entry into those units, and they're basically fulfilling all the psychophysical tests that allow them to stay in those units, we need them. So, besides the financial effects, besides being a little weird, I met some guys who are 40, 41 years old, to say can I retire? It was a little early, right to tell you that guys at the age of 40 are retired, but it's not a lot of those people. However, when they are 40 years old, they are experienced enough to help us train these younger members who come into our ranks and be with us, let me say, in that sense very useful to the MUP. That's why we defined it to be 45 years ago, we thought that someone 45 years ago should stay to work for his country. I'll certainly try, and given what you said and what I know, and I've been talking to a huge number of special and special units for the past four years, personally, so directly with them. I will try to make sure there are no members who are in any way damaged, precisely because I appreciate what they did for Serbia and what they did for the MUP. As far as incompatible business is concerned, we are in the process of adopting a rule of business that a member can do and past the service, the procedure to finish his working hours, what is it that he can do, and that does not violate the reputation of the service, because we agree that in previous years we have had cases that have worked with various criminals, that they have been their security. I understand these people too, they do it for financial reasons, but simply, they have to understand that it is not in the interests of the citizens of our country and it is not in the interests of the MUP and we will try to find those jobs that, of course, and with the knowledge of the elders can do. After all, it is in the interest of the M.O. to do certain jobs because they collect, they are 24 hours of police officers, it is their duty to collect data that can lead to solving certain crimes. So now we've defined incompatible jobs in law. We'll also define by sublegal acts how this will be done more precisely. I don't think this is a bad solution. As far as the police director is concerned, the police director was elected Mr. Rebic in the competition. As far as I'm concerned, what you could see in this law in the previous, so, these changes and additions, is a very clear one thing that says, the Police Director's Directorate is in charge, the police director's management and responsibility are the Police Directorate, based on the principle of authority and co-ordination. So all police units are subordinated to the Director of Police. They are obliged to report to him about their work, to obey his orders, and there is no skipping in any way. The only thing I can say is that those who can turn directly to the cabinet of the minister or minister are those who don't belong to the police, so these are sectors within the ministry that have nothing to do with the police, fire-saving units, the finance sector, the human resources sector, those who aren't cops. Those within the Police Directorate's system, their boss, so to speak, is the colloktial director of the police, and they address the Director, and the Director to me if these are jobs that require the system support of the Ministry, if not, he does it on his own. So believe me, there's no jumping in that sense, and we wouldn't let that happen because simply once the big system breaks down once you let it happen, it's often people without experience make mistakes, and you're not, people who are without experience make mistakes and I've talked to many. Once a mistake is made and someone skips, you're the next one who's skipped, it's not about who's skipped, it's about how the system doesn't have a lot of knowledge of what's going on and it doesn't happen the way it's supposed to, and it's always a mistake. It should always be done by the rules, by the law, by the way. There's someone he talks to. After all, what does a lieutenant do if you turn directly to the captain? What's the captain for if we go to the general? Then that system doesn't work. In the MUP, I'm pleased that the system works. We have good co-operation, I would say, I have good co-operation with both the director and, of course, all the assistants, the secretary of state, and I know that he has good co-operation with the chiefs of police administrations and in the headquarters and in the territory, and I think that in that sense, the police system works better than before. Is there room for further improvement? Yeah. We're going to advance it even more and we're going to use more and more modern communication technologies, because you just don't have time to see a lot of people every day using these modern technologies, improving the speed of communication with people in the police, but of course with citizens. Thank you for your helpful comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29148	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29149	Thank you, President. I would like to congratulate Dr Stefanovic, the president of the City Committee on the extraordinary, I would say, the historic victory of the SNS, because 45% of the citizens voted for SNS. Thanks for that. They recognized the work, order and discipline and the results of the work that were visible in each place. Belgrade has become a beautiful place for life today and will only be much, much better. We got this victory huge responsibility to work faster and better, and we're really gonna do it. I won't talk about these laws much, because experts have been involved in the construction of these laws, and also in the non-governmental sector, but I still have to look back at some of them. First of all, I will talk about the proposal for an asylum law and temporary protection. The Republic of Serbia is today very respectable in the world, in the international community, and why? Because it was dedicated to the protection of fundamental human rights, especially between 2014 and 2016, when, unfortunately, the Western Balkan route happened, or the people from the war-related areas, millions of people went through our country. We then showed an extremely high degree of empathy, dignity, honesty, and we helped these people and gained credibility and respect in the world. That's how the government is responsible. That's how our city government, also the president of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic. What is very important is to point out that during this period, the most, the most and the best, were assessed, mainly the protection of elementary human rights, and security as well. It has been said here that the arrival of a million people from war-torn areas will be terrorists. On the contrary, these people are just like us, and there is no need to forget about what can happen at a given time. The hardest thing in life is to be a good man and we showed it. A high degree of security, I must commend is what the Ministry of the Interior does. I'm happy to live in this country, which I've had the honor and pleasure to have as a member of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, meaning all the ladies, or gentlemen who were at the camp or the reception center, the Centre for Migrants and Asylum, we've had the pleasure of talking to them. The people were too pleased. They did not believe there were people like Serbs, or citizens of Serbia. They thought there was a wall and they'd come across someone here who knew what, because we were being satanized in the world. No, on the contrary, we fixed a picture we didn't deserve for bad lobbying. We are now people who have been praised everywhere in the entire international community. That's how the responsible government works. That's what Serbian citizens do, and I'm too happy to be a part of them. The second law I will speak of is the draft law supplementing the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Why about that? Because we're going to build a central database and store data. Because at one point in the click of the button, we're going to be able to have absolutely all the data on the name, last name, half, change the half, the marital state, about who's where he lived, about citizenship, and why? Because many of us have different disputes, because we're going to be faster, because it's the government's goal of reducing red tape from 2000 to 2008, when a nice opposition fired 400,000 people, and we don't do that, and hired our party buddies. We, by natural selection or retirement, don't leave people without a job, we have good social programs and retraining. Why am I saying this? Because it's important for citizens to hear and know what the government and the interior minister are doing, or his team. Why is it still important? Because we're going to cut that huge bureaucratic apparatus in half, because yet all these people get paid out of that budget, and then, it's about speed, it's about saving money and time. That's how the government is responsible. Finally, I will mention another law which I find impressive, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Order and Peace. Why? Because the Constitution guarantees the fundamental freedoms of all people, and someone who loves guns will be simply sanctioned. The sanctions will be increased and we will have our budget charged, with all due gratitude. Why? Because someone who deals with violence will have a fine of 50,000 to 100,000 and don't give God something harder, and then someone who likes to wave torches and who makes other people unhappy, will have a penalty that was 10,000, now the lower limit of 50,000 and the upper 100,000. Bravo. That's how the responsible government and the M.O.P. works, and I'm happy to vote for all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29150	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29151	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, we have before us a law of special importance, or a bill of amendments and additions to the Police Act. As far as I have been able to see from all these laws from your arrivals to the Committee on Internal Affairs, one accelerated, comprehensive reform of the MUP and the police is being prepared and implemented, with the ultimate goal of bringing what has been imposed for decades, and what is negative in a system that is critical to the internal security of the state and of the citizens, into an acceptable framework that will be effective, modern and will meet modern and security challenges. I just think it's for us MPs and for you in the MUP, that the laws that are ahead of us and future laws, that they should be brought into line with these security challenges. Without a valid analysis of the problems our society faces in the area of security, endangering the security of citizens and the state, the system, we cannot even have good legal proposals. If we match those two things, then we'll be on our way. I believe that the help of our messengers will be important to you. I wanted to say a few things about this law. In fact, I've been looking at a description of police affairs, and I agree that in the first place there should be prevention of crime and improvement of security in the community, but I expect to see a fully elaborate mechanism for this prevention, to see how effective this mechanism is going to be, whether we're going to have the opportunity to supplement it by working together for the next few years. Also, the execution of operations established by the regulations of private security and detective activity, I think there is a need for increased surveillance, as so far there have been many incident situations and the lack of law enforcement in that particular area. What I'm particularly pleased about is the Solidarity Assistance Fund that will be formed. I am using the opportunity for all of us to remember together those members of the MUP who gave their lives in Kosovo in 1998 and 1999 and who, after that, remained somehow, I think, along with the other members of the security forces, are quite forgotten by the state, society and all of us. I don't think we can let that happen, that we owe a great debt of gratitude, and that we have to solve the status issues of the families of those who are no longer among the living, who have given their lives to defend the state and the security of the people. What I find particularly interesting. When you reform one system, you go in two directions – you modernise the means that this system is used and, on the other hand, you have to improve the human policy or the quality of the people that will carry that system that will reform it. I see you've taken the job seriously to see the negatives observed in the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior, or the police, finally start solving in one more efficient way than they've ever been before. In the light of this law, it states that the preventive activities of the Internal Affairs and New Instruments Sector have been significantly improved and specified in the legal system of the applicable Police Act. They are now elaborated and their application will provide data to further analyse and propose measures to eradicate corruption in the ministry. I agree. The key thing, if you want to succeed in reforming the interior ministry, is to create an extremely efficient, responsible system, which will serve citizens and their safety, is to root out corruption. Corruption is carried by people, individuals. The police must have this internal mechanism that will recognise such negative phenomena on a daily basis. If that mechanism is built, then citizens' trust in the police will be much greater. I see you're talking about an inoculated procedure in the Internal Affairs Sector. It's probably significantly innovated from what it was. It reminds me a little of some systems that we have in some efficient police in the West, say, in the United States or some other states, but all that's good, I think we should use it too. The provision of Article 69 amends Article 230 and provides that, in order to prevent corruption, the Internal Control Sector implements the text of integrity, an analysis of the risk of corruption, keeps records, controls the application and changes in the property situation, which is certainly very significant. It is further said that the collected data and records on external water activities are in line with the rules on records and processing of data in the field of internal affairs. I see the integrity test is very well worked out and I support it. The key question is – how will this test show up in practice? I think it will depend heavily on those who will carry it out, and carry out a risk analysis of corruption and checks, applications and changes in the property situation. These are all good things to determine if there are irregularities within the system. But I'm interested in something else. I have not seen here a detailed system of control of those who control the internal control sector. I see that there's been a precise responsibility to carry out security checks on employees of the Internal Affairs and Security and Data Protection Department. I have to admit, I'm very interested in this mechanism. So, the internal control sector in the next period needs to be extremely important, in order to implement what you're proposing here as a proposal for a change of law. But there's something I miss. I miss the control within internal control. I'll tell you one example, which should be a warning to all of us. You have a man in internal control. I, as an MP, fortunately or unfortunately, get a lot of representations from citizens, even from people who work in internal control. Say, you have a case of a man who got a negative B.I.A. check, noting that he was unfit for service at the B.I.A. The same man, for example, has a physical attack on the head of the BIA in one of the municipalities, filed a misdemeanor report, was covert, suspended, and while he was under suspension, he received a solution to move to the Internal Affairs Department. Well, then we have his wife's application for physical harassment and a lot of other things. I think this mechanism you're building must strengthen and control those who will control all members of the Ministry of the Interior and that you need to root out these inherited problems. Without it, this law will be false. Because giving someone so much power that they can control all the other members without being undercontrol, that there are some negative things behind them that compromise him to do the job, it's just not acceptable. I expect that in the coming period you will certainly improve the system of control of people working in the Internal Control Sector, and then the path will be completely open to the fight against corruption effectively being conducted in the police, which I wish you with all my heart. This is the task of all of us, because in this case alone, we will have much more effective police and much more trust for citizens, and this is in the conditions when we have the separation of society and major social problems and turbulence periods very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29152	Thank you. The word is Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29153	Thank you, President. I would refer to the presentation of a previous colleague who speaks in a security context, so that this limited time that our parliamentary group has to focus on these three laws – on asylum, on foreigners, on cross-border control, which in fact should prepare Serbia for the greatest challenge that is currently in Europe and beyond. It's a migrant crisis, so-called. We know that this Balkan route through which migrants have mass-crossed, whether refugees, whether economic migrants, through our country's territory, are currently suspended, but here's a concrete question – is this set of amendments and additions to the laws that I have currently mentioned and which are on the agenda, indeed to a sufficient extent strengthening the capacity of the MUP and our entire society, in fact, by this debate that we are having today to deal with the migrant crisis? We see that Europe's economically strongest countries, which have undoubtedly both police and other capacities to face the migrant crisis, fail? The fact is and it should always be pointed out and it is commendable that Serbia is praised by international organisations of the Council of Europe and other humanitarian organisations, the most relevant international organisations for humanitarian and humane approach to management, so to speak, of the refugee crisis. I would also call for experience, what I saw together with my distinguished colleagues who were members of the delegation at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, together with foreign colleagues we went to Presevo and Bujanovac, and I am using this opportunity to really praise and many international humanitarian NGOs and government organisations that really invest large capacities in the reception of migrants, but I am afraid that these amendments and amendments of the law have not reached far enough, or we do not want to honestly tell the citizens of Serbia, which is actually expected of Serbia. I call for a concrete set of resolutions within the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and what awaits us all. So Serbia is expected to join the system of migration crisis management, what is actually forbidden by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This means that those migrants who have been on Serbian territory for five years have the right to vote in local elections. Then, member states, which are us, are members of the Council of Europe, are required to speed up the asylum procedure. In part, it intends to sanction discrimination against migrants through these amendments and additions to the Asylum Act. I dare say that there is a great degree of misunderstanding in our society, although we have had our countrymen and refugees and internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, and we are truly committed to a great degree of compassion with refugees, but I don't think our law is ready to discriminate against any discrimination against human rights of migrants. Then, the Council of Europe, or the whole of Europe, expects Serbia to allow asylum seekers to join the labour market. If I'm not mistaken, it's already possible that before the asylum procedure is completed and that it makes it easier for them to give commercial microcredits. So it's all some set of human rights that, by some international European standards, belongs to migrants. It's also on the list of silent and next ones. Migrants will have the right after the five years to participate not only in local elections but also in the work of political organisations, trade unions or organisations organised by migrants. So I'm afraid that with this set of laws, we are very slow to respond to the challenges of the migrant crisis and that we are not enough in our society to talk in public about what is expected of Serbia. Perhaps you should consider what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe really expects and recommends, perhaps, a special ID card, so that these migrants know the name and name of the people who enter and that they would thus have access to social, health services, perhaps it is a special ID card. I would not be an MP to the opposition if I did not mention what was seen Sunday in the elections, which is that in two polling stations on Starara, a particular polling post number 25 and 26. one of the voters reported that the two polling stations at the Krcun Student House had also seen the vote of migrants. Maybe the minister has some information on whether the migrants were issued a ID card? We are interested in data, feel free to say – No; but you are the Minister of the Interior and you have access to such data. I stress, at least personally, I'm not xenophobic, I'm saying that Serbia needs to raise capacity. The capacity of the minister, i.e. the MUP, is not enough. You know very well that some, I say, Serbian Army troops participated in border control with Bulgaria several months ago, which is why they were praised. I'm simply telling you that our country's capacities need to be raised to the highest possible level, not to be surprised by the possible new inflow of migrants and to take it very seriously. I'm afraid the establishment of an asylum commission containing eight members will simply lead to the hypertrophy of a bureaucratic apparatus that will not be able to solve the refugee problem on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29154	Thank you, you've wasted your time with the MPs' group. Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29155	Certainly, the issue of migration has been a key issue for Europe since 2015 and in terms of security, but of course also in terms of respect for human rights, by providing sufficient capacity for labour market concerns, for all that has been happening in smaller countries. It is clear that the Western Balkan route was a challenge, not only for the Republic of Serbia, but also for countries, because our migrants are practically coming from the EU and it was a specific process where migrants from Greece or Bulgaria, through Macedonia of course from Greece, Bulgaria directly, as they have a direct land border with Turkey, come to us from countries that have an EU duty to accept these migrants primarily on their territory. In 2015, we had, like Serbia, a proposal for any of these countries of Greece, Macedonia, and even Serbia, with international help, to create some kind of mobile station where special biometric documents would be issued for all those entering the territory of Europe and to help those biometric documents in fact to help those migrants, with these documents, have free travel, accommodation, nutrition, therefore, in the territories of the countries that are passing through, but to be able to control their final destination in the country where they arrive, so that we could also control for the safety of the movement of all and to determine who these people are. I was personally present when they were, you probably saw that they all applied for one name and last name or similar name and were all born in 1.1.1980. I even had one situation that an older lady, for example, was significantly older than my mother, wrote that she was born on January 1, 1980. I said, "Just give me a little year's worth, let's move it a little bit, it's just not real." But someone taught them that, because they thought they'd be returned, they were trying to cover up their identity, and of course when you take biometric data, when you take palms, fingers, you take pictures, so biometric facial lines, then that's what we did first on the Western Balkan route, then we made sure that we still had one database of people passing through our country. On the other hand, of course, Europe has not brought clear enough criteria and criteria for this. Today we have regulations that for asylum seekers, therefore, asylum seekers, they have a personal map on our country's territory and with this ID card, a special document enjoy certain rights while they are in the status of asylum seekers. The persons who express their intention to seek asylum, but never ask for it, because it was only a way to literally enter our territory to buy themselves time to leave it, and 99.9% of those people went out of our country, they didn't have that kind of information, neither did Europe ask for them to own such a correction, which I think it was a mistake, because if we had had the right in 2015, it wouldn't have happened to someone through the migrant flow, and if they had some bad intention, it would have gotten to any of the European countries or any other countries, and we don't really know where he was, where he was, how long, with whom he made contacts, because that would have been better. As for this, I can confidently tell you that never anyone who is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia could vote in the elections. So there's no way that's gonna happen. I don't want to express my speculation about why I think those faces have been mixed with someone who is a migrant, but what I can tell you is that we have recorded in these elections about 14,000 voters less than in the previous elections held in 2017, and about four thousand voters less than in the 2016 elections, even when you count those persons who had the right to vote, to say, and are currently displaced, for example, from Kosovo and Metohija or the like. So we are recording a significant trend in population decline across the country, and this unfortunately could not have passed Belgrade either. I wish we had more people living in our country and that our country is powerful, but that's the next phase, we have to talk about it as a society, of course, how to raise our Natalie by different measures. Many countries, richer than us, Sweden has failed, which is far richer than Serbia, many countries in our environment, we have to look for mechanisms. I think Hungary took one step forward. I spoke to my colleagues from the Hungarian government. I think it's worth the attention of talking to colleagues from Hungary. They have made progress over the past five years, stopped the bar and made growth, so some growth compared to the previous period, and I think the methods they've taken are obviously giving some results. They need to be considered, but it's not, let me put it this way. I certainly think that we have room to improve our system of acceptance of migrants, although, as you said, it was rather human and much better than other European Union countries, according to the European Commission. We will continue to treat migrants in this way. I hope there will be a more comprehensive solution, because there is still no key answer – and what if one day from India, Pakistan, today it is a very small number of people, hundreds of thousands of people from more human countries to Europe. They're not going to Serbia. They don't need Serbian citizens to have fear, they don't want to live in Serbia, but generally, if they go through our country we have to be prepared and we have to look at it as Europe, so as part of the European continent, whether we are a member of the European Union today or not, we need to look at the overall and economic aspect and the security aspect. That is certainly the point, given that Germany has not yet found a solution, I think as the largest and most powerful state of the European Union, we will have to make an effort all together to find it, because it is easy for those countries that are not on the migrant route, they say – We are not interested in it and it is like a flood in the house, so the one in the attic at the first moment does not care what happens in the basement, but when the foundation is wet then the one in the attic eventually hurts the head. So, we all have to make our contribution today, Serbia is doing it. There's been about 3,600 migrants in our territory for some time now. We have the capacity without a problem to receive about 6,000 people, these capacities are not filled and these people at this point do not want to remain in our country's territory, but there is also a need for European solidarity. I know that we cannot deal with a country that has between six and seven million inhabitants, it cannot be measured by economic strength with Germany, which has 82-3 million and which has incomparably greater economic power, but certainly we have tried to show that even though we are not a full member of the European Union, but a country in the accession process, that we are already taking over our share of the burden. Thank you all for understanding this and thank all the people who have contributed to this process since 2015. Of course, colleagues from the ministry and border police and boys and girls from the Criminal and Police Academy, who worked as volunteers and gendarmes and regular police units, have all really contributed to making it as much of a security challenge as possible to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29156	Honey Stojkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29157	Thank you. Dear Presidents Gojkovic, distinguished ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I will not talk today about the attacks of the mirage in the Belgrade elections and whether they were migrants or voters, as my colleague said earlier in her presentation I will say, so it is about the mirage, they were not any migrants in the Belgrade elections. Citizens of our capital, Belgrade, have given support to SNS policy in these elections and I ask you to accept that as a result. I will now look back on the agenda and the proposed legislative solutions. At the very beginning, I would like to say that over a million migrants have gone through the expansion of the migrant crisis in Serbia. With the huge involvement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all the MUP in our country's territory has been preserved both the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the security of migrants. Indeed, the greatest efforts have been made to ensure that our citizens in the Republic of Serbia do not feel the burden of this migrant crisis. Serbia has shown that there is indeed an adequate response and an effective response to the migrant crisis. We showed the human relationship we have toward migrants who have been living in our territory. For all of this, we have received commendation from the relevant international institutions, both the Council of Europe, both the OSCE and the UNHCR and the EU bodies. In order to combat irregular migration and human trafficking through the territory of the Republic of Serbia more effectively, I remind you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a decision in mid-2016 on the education of joint police and military forces to carry out joint tasks in countering irregular migration and human trafficking. Indeed, by working closely together our military and police forces with the forces of the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Bulgaria, we have indeed shown phenomenal results in the fight against human trafficking. The statistics on these results suggest that when it comes to the fight against human trafficking, the MUP has done a job that has been done for every praise, where more than 1,500 crimes have been registered in co-operation with the Prosecutor's Office by nearly 2,000 people, against whom more than 1,400 criminal charges have been filed. The adoption of a set of police laws, i.e. these laws, which are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, we actually want to take a step forward in raising standards that have so far been in force in the Republic of Serbia, and when we talk about the Law on Asylum, and the Law on Foreigners, and the Law on Foreigners, and the Law on DNA registers and on safety and traffic on roads, JMBG and border control. In addition to our obligations, I remind you, this is about commitments to Serbia's EU accession and implementation and implementation of the Action Plan for Chapter 24, which concerns migration, it is important that we introduce these standards for our citizens, because of ourselves. With this set of laws, we actually want to increase the efficiency of the police, to protect, above all, the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to reduce all those barriers and all those burdens through the introduction of new institutes into our legal system, but we must also take care of the protection of personal data, especially when we talk about data on persons relating to foreigners. Serbia is not an isolated island in Europe and without intensive international police co-operation, above all I mean co-operation with Interpol, Europol, the FBI, but also all the police in the environment, so, without intensive international police co-operation, exchange of information on a daily basis, better communication, there are no good jobs done, and above all I think about those jobs relating to the protection of the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the security of our citizens. I will speak today in my further statement on the proposal for a Law on Foreigners, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia referred to the National Assembly on 1 December last year. At the very beginning, I want to talk about the reasons for proposing a new Foreign Law. I will remind all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament that the old Law on Foreigners and the applicable Sublegal Act, that they were adopted back in 2008, that they had not been changed since then, that they were no longer in step with time and that they were necessary and that they were seen during the application of old legal solutions certain shortcomings, certain inaccuracies, and that this has led to the necessity and need for the adoption of a new Foreign Law, in order to remove all these shortcomings. The migration crisis itself, I will remind you, has shown in many EU countries that their old regulations are bad and that it is necessary to bring their legislation into line with new opportunities. New answers to enhanced migration waves need to be found in Europe. The state of Serbia has adopted measures to bring national legislation into line in the area of regular and irregular migration with EU rules. Serbia, I remind you, in Chapter 24 in the field of justice, freedom and security, has made great progress, witnessing that the EU institutions through regular reports on the implementation of action plans for Chapters 23 and 24, as well as one important partner on the path of European integration, which is the National Convention, which makes up more than 600 professional NGOs in Serbia. Also, areas have been defined by this new law that pose an unacceptable risk to the security of the Republic of Serbia in the event of entry and residence of foreigners, as well as circumstances in which all available state mechanisms are activated to protect the Republic of Serbia from scenarios that have affected many EU countries. I'll remind you of the catastrophic data. In the period from July 2016 to August 2017, ten major capitals, ten major cities were hit by terrorist attacks that killed more than 150 people. So the great European cities did not remain immune to terrorist attacks, such as London, Barcelona, Paris, Manchester, Berlin, Nice and Stockholm. The proposed legal solution also took a step towards the protection of human rights, increased legal certainty, procedures were made transparent and clear, thus removing legal gaps and legal shortcomings of the old Foreign Law, which concerned the application of rights, duties and obligations of foreigners during their stay in our territory. The law also defines new concepts, new institutes that first appear in the new legal text. It is about concepts such as country of origin, usual residence, reasons for the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia, illegal stay, return of foreigners, home addresses and many others. For the first time, the work of the BIA is introduced into this new proposal of the Foreign Act. It is a state body whose responsibility is to protect the security of the Republic of Serbia, which is carrying out security checks on foreigners. As someone who comes from Belgrade, from the capital visited every day by a large number of tourists, a large number of foreign scientific workers, students, volunteers, seasonal workers looking for jobs in our domestic companies, it is important that we feel safe in our backyard, in our city, in our country. It's important that we know as citizens that someone is taking care of us, that someone is protecting our children, that they take care of our property. In addition to the fact that this new proposal of the Foreign Law is actually an EU directive, the EU visa code regulation has also entered into this proposal. New institutes have been introduced which were not prescribed by the foreign law, which relate to the verification of the conditions for issuing a visa to a foreigner and the assessment of the risk. Clear procedures and actions of all three bodies – Foreign Ministry, MUP and BIA are prescribed. And there is no good result, there is no good success without close co-operation between these three authorities in the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to issuing visas, and when it comes to returning foreigners, and many other activities. It is important that these three authorities co-operate and when it comes to visa requirements coming from migration high-risk areas. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a commitment to present a list of countries in high-risk areas in the coming period. The decision to refuse visa applications shall be submitted in a prescribed form, that is the same newspaper in this new proposal for a law on foreigners, gives reasons for a negative response, as well as a lesson on the legal remedy. Also, the new institutes incorporated in this legislative proposal are also the Family Merger Directive, and this is the approval of the temporary stay of a member of a foreign family who has been granted protection under the provisions of the Asylum Act. We can also authorise temporary stay in cases of humanitarian reasons, including the approval of temporary stay for foreigners involved in actions to facilitate irregular migration, whether they co-operate with our competent authorities, whether in procedures they appear as damaged or witnesses. Also, in Article 62. The proposal for a law on foreigners is also a solution relating to the approval of temporary stay for victims of human trafficking. During the process of returning foreigners, it is important to note that it is the actions of very vulnerable persons. We need to look at their family and health at any moment and really behave in the best interest of all, as one responsible country that cares about foreigners in its territory. We have to take care of underage strangers. I would like to say this, Serbia's accession to the EU is not a virtual project. It's a whole society project. Some lessons in this process must be mastered. It's actually the process of a constant improvement, of constant learning. We need our legal regulations to harmonize with EU processes, but we also need as a state to win some new freedoms and rights that we have not had so far, both for our citizens and for foreigners who live in our territory. The new law defines the institute itself and the notion of a stranger, as well as what a stranger is not. It is important to define the area of operation of the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia, then the rights, obligations and duties of foreigners during their stay, work, study or travel through our country to make them safer and safer as a society. Four public debates were held during the draft legislative proposal, before it entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All relevant professional associations, competent institutions, competent ministries are involved in proposing this legal solution, and the Chamber of Commerce, and the lawyer's office, and the Council of Foreign Investors, foreign banks and a large part of their comments and the proposal have become an integral part of the bill we are discussing today. I hope that you will be open to the amendments submitted by the MPs during this previous period and that we will have a good debate in particular. I am sure that as Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Stefanovic will not stop with the initial reforms in the Serbian police and that in the next period he will develop all the good services for the benefit of Serbian citizens, such as "the baby welcome to the world", such as the introduction of video surveillance in primary schools, such as further reform of the EGP and it's a line of obtaining personal documents, but also all of those reforms by the Serbian police regarding the professionalisation of police officers, career advancement, the purchase of new equipment, new uniforms for Serbian police officers, that the Serbian police officer is worthy of his job which he honors. I come from Rakovica and I am proud to say that Rakovica is one of the Belgrade municipalities where video surveillance was introduced in all primary schools. Video surveillance is linked to a police station in Rakovica. I would take this opportunity to pass on to you, ministers, positive comments, both principals of primary schools, teachers, parents, students in all primary schools in the territory of my municipality. Indeed, the basics feel safer, the rate of peer violence has been reduced, our founding fathers are safer, the risk that existed in schools and schoolyards in Rakovica has been reduced, and I thank you for that. Also, I know that you yourself have made great efforts to bring this system to life in Belgrade municipalities and that besides Rakovica, the system has also been brought to life in the municipalities of Mladenvac and Voždovac. We really expect a lot from the implementation of the second phase of a project entitled "Sef City", to make them feel safe as citizens. It is important that perpetrators of criminal acts be brought to justice more quickly and efficiently. In the end, I would take the opportunity to thank all of the Belgrade citizens who, with their voice, gave support to the continuation of the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS and to congratulate you personally, as chairman of the SNS City Committee, on a phenomenal historical outcome. The Belgrade citizens recognized our work results in the city administration and in all our Belgrade municipalities. They recognized the results of the work, not the hate policy led by individual opposition parties, and it was their only programme in this political campaign. Belgrade has mirrored Serbia without stability, without the results we have achieved in these elections, it has far-reaching consequences, both internationally and internally. We need stability in our capital, in our country. We will put aside all those dirty campaigns that are against the candidates for our city councils led in the previous period, and in the media, and on social networks, all those machinations that the opposition needs to be honored. We will continue to take care of our fellow citizens, continue with all the good things we've done in the past four years for the Belgraders. We are witnessed by the results seen in built miles of roads, in built kilometers of water and sewerage networks, and I remind you that in the 21st century there is no sewerage network in all municipalities. Our results tell us how much we really love Belgrade, and these results have just been supported by Belgrade's citizens in these elections. At the very end, I would take the opportunity to invite all my fellow MPs, whether they come from a position or from an opposition, to support these excellent legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29158	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Stevanović. You don't want a word. Thank you. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29159	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, listening to their discussions yesterday and today, were lacking in every speech by the opposition's opposition to criticism and suggestion of an emergency procedure. All MPs and MPs know that these are laws that have been in the process for a long time. We've all had enough time to read them, prepare ourselves and discuss them today. Suggestions and criticisms were present, whether out of habit or out of need for something that is good, good, good, thorough, transparent, to criticise something, even if it was regrettable for more time for discussion. I am honored to talk today about these laws, laws aimed at increasing the efficiency of the police, which are proposed primarily because of the citizens of Serbia and their better lives, of course also because of foreigners who will stay on our country's territory, then also because of meeting certain criteria for EU accession. A set of laws that speak more clearly, more transparently, and aim to prevent all forms of crime, trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism, the reduction of administrative burdens, the protection of citizens' personal data, human rights and the freedom of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in particular the asylum of foreigners, the control of the state border, the establishment of a national DNA register and the security of road traffic. Dear Minister Stefanovic, my colleague Aleksandra Tomic and I have submitted ten amendments to the Foreign Law. This is within the framework of the economic development of our Republic of Serbia and the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. I owe my colleagues an apology from the opposition. As you have understood and heard these days of criticism and their opinion that we MPs of the ruling coalition, positions in fact, have no right to submit amendments, I apologize to our fellow opposition because it only tells us about how much they know and provide and speak about democracy. Of course, in the voting day, I will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29160	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. It's not decent. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29161	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to say that I will be very brief in this debate so that I do not come into the situation to repeat what has been authorized by the SNS representative yesterday in his presentation and emphasized, as well as many of my colleagues who today spoke very professionally and thoroughly about these drafts of the law. So, first of all, I want to say that I am giving strong support to the entire set of laws, the laws that fall within the work of the MUP, but if I didn't read what the laws are, I would take advantage of the opportunity to look at the overall state of affairs, I would say, in the internal affairs sector, the overall state of police and all that data that more than clearly shows that from month to month, year after year, we are making visible progress in the field of fighting corruption and crime, as well as in the face of all kinds of criminal acts. Mr Stefanovic, I address you as a National MP, but I also address you as a member of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs of the National Assembly, and I find it appropriate to do so because I am a witness as much as dedicated and exhaustive as you provide, i.e. you participate in providing information on the work of the Ministry of the Interior and that you regularly come to all meetings of the Committee of the National Assembly and explain reports and information for hours, but also give answers to all the questions that come from members of the Committee, very often politically motivated issues, and unorthodoxly and completely malicious questions. Why am I stressing this? Because there is no one responsible to claim that today's situation in the internal affairs sector, that today's police situation has not been stablely arranged, perhaps the best in the last few decades. Despite all that, we heard all sorts of shit here yesterday and today. We were here yesterday and today listening to all sorts of nonsense, completely pointless accusations, all sorts of different. But the funniest thing for me was yesterday March 7th, while news came out that in the course of the division of new sets of uniforms to members of internal affairs, after a long time someone provided that the members of the intervention unit would get new uniforms, and I'd remind you that they had previously performed their work in torn uniforms, while others had exercised power and were responsible for it, yesterday while the Ministry provided the members of the intervention police with a new uniform here at the time we were just listening to such ridiculous accusations. And that shows the responsibility of those who brought those charges out of here. I'll just remind you that more than 500 new officers were admitted into employment during last year. More than 500 young people who have been trained for the job and got a job in the profession, people who had to get jobs before, who were forced to work in cafes, casinos, bookshops, gas stations and anywhere, it's irrelevant now, it's no shame, but today, thanks to the hard work of the MUP, they've been given the opportunity to prove themselves at work that they've been trained for. I'll just remind you that over 700 vehicles for members of the MUP were purchased last year. If we compare the technical conditions and the condition they've been in for years, you'll see how much progress that's made. So I don't owe, and because of the time left for my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I'll finish my presentation. From what I have stated, it is quite clear that Serbia today is a far safer country than it was, that the situation in the Serbian police and in the entire sector is a security and internal affairs sector at a far higher level than it has been in the last few decades. For all these reasons, I would like to invite you to support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29162	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29163	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing today's work. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and Associates, what I want to say first is that the SRS is against the Americanisation of Serbian legislation. According to the proposed Law on Police in article 70, you've foreseen a integrity test. I agree that members of the internal affairs and police should keep their integrity from officers to ministers, because integrity is like innocence, only gets lost once. It is very important that internal affairs authorities also take care of integrity. As far as police affairs are concerned, the SRS believes there has been changes in most of this Police Act, which was adopted in 2016. There are major interventions, but the laws are changed and complemented only in that case if there are changed circumstances in society. I don't know how many circumstances have changed in society from 2016 to 2017, but if these circumstances are such as to change or supplement a certain law, then you're right to change, but, in no case, you don't reach the breadth, because interventions in the law can't be big when it comes to change and supplement. And if it's a change and a supplement, it has to be logical, short, clear and summed up. The jobs performed by police are very honorable, responsible and dangerous, because it is a service that is exposed to numerous dangers, given Serbia's historic past from the 1990s to today. Serbian police have played a major role in defending national interests. However, there was a major problem with the five-October revolution, followed by disturbances in the functioning of internal affairs authorities. There were people in internal affairs in office without sufficient checks, secondly, people who were not in favour of the Republic of Serbia, people who did not take care of security to a sufficient extent, which is why there have been a number of problems in the Republic of Serbia. When establishing a working relationship with the police, detailed checks must be carried out, in particular, to take care of who comes to the workplace. For a police general, there must be a man from the operation, so from the officer to the head of the sector, to the assistant commander, to the commander, to the inspector, to the chief inspector, to the chief inspector of the first class, etc., to the general, therefore, a man must come from the operation. At this point, Rebic, the general of the police, came from the operation. Anyway, when someone comes out of surgery, it's better than being put on a political line. The minister is a political figure, but the police general, the management chief, must be operatives and police station commanders. So these jobs and all those stairs must pass. The check must cover not only when chosen. What is very important is that the verification should also be carried out after leaving the main posts, because you have in practice such a situation that from 2000 to today, security functions are being brought to the BIA and put people from political parties and come to responsible public security duties, i.e. Police. Now the question is whether an operational security assessment has been made for them or not? If so, for which one of those leaders was public, any former state security, and now the BIA, checked? What's very important is, what will I draw your attention to, gentlemen, when he leaves his post, whose function he went to work for, who he went to work for and whose interests he works for? Were there any cases that former security forces were the locators of the capture of Ratko Mladic, and did someone pay ugly millions to locate, arrest and surrender to The Hague? That's what we think must be taken care of. There are numerous jobs and tasks carried out by the Internal Affairs Service in the interest of protecting the security of citizens and their property. New powers under the Law on Criminal Procedure and New Powers relating to the Law on Protection against Family Violence further extend the tasks and tasks of internal affairs authorities, i.e. Our police. Under the provisions of Article 256, 256, 257, 258. The Code of Criminal Procedure, a number of tasks are now put before the internal affairs authorities, i.e. in front of our police, because the public prosecutor is transferring certain powers, although the Code of Criminal Procedure has also provided for what investigative actions members of the police may take on their own, which investigative actions or even investigative actions may also be taken by the police, on the orders of the public prosecutor. What has been observed in practice at the moment, a public prosecutor rarely comes to the sights, less often goes to hearings in police stations and administrations, leaving it to the police. What is important is that under the new Code of Criminal Procedure since 2001, police hearings and police work are conducted with the presence of defenders. in the presence of a lawyer. The new law, which was applied in 2017, relating to domestic violence, has also given great responsibilities to members of the police who, from the application of that law to today, have made close to 10,000 measures, urgent measures against domestic violence. It's a huge job that's coming down now. So, from the Code of Criminal Procedure, as I said, from Article 256, 257, 258, it goes to police jurisdiction. The police are in charge, but what you can do is the DA prefers to sit at home in a warm apartment without going to see where there are car accidents, where there's robbery, where there's robbery, murders, etc. So police take on a huge number of jobs and tasks when it comes to criminality, and besides, police have great responsibility and a great responsibility when it comes to maintaining public order and peace. What's good, which is now foreseen in this law, which is that audio and high-risk videos must be recorded. It is now a big problem to prove in a procedure conducted against police generals in front of the prosecutor's office in Belgrade, in connection with the US Embassy case. Now the question is, what is the basis for these people to answer, who is influencing? Whether it's the influence of the judiciary or not, and whether it's possible to resist a foreign factor once more that it can no longer determine who will be tried here, who will be ordered by the detainees, etc. So the question now arises about the 2008 event at that rally. Please, how is it possible not to record the entire course of this event and who is responsible for it and who knew and who didn't know and if these people were at all guilty? That's a big question mark now. It's a question of discussion now. It's not my fault, because who could stand up to-- of 10,000 people. That is why, gentlemen of the ministry, it is necessary, when such situations are in the country where high-risk gatherings are organised, a detailed security plan must be drawn up. The headquarters must be formed. The headquarters must know who is responding, whose territory is being met with a high risk or a public gathering and who is in the chain of command, which units are involved, when the gendarme is involved, when police stations are, etc. Therefore, police have big tasks and jobs, but as part of this, when we talk about the police, you have to call the ministry's gentlemen, Mr. Minister Stefanovic, the finance minister when they're the biggest winters and the leprechauns and the snow. Let it pass with you on patrol for five, six nights, Serbia, and see how the officer who wears the torn collars, i.e. shoes and boots, which have no uniform and whose salary is 30, 40,000. You have to raise the police to a higher level in terms of material, equipment, and what's earlier in the river, even provide people with apartments. The status of the police has never been worse than it is now, in terms of material financial. In case of circumstances, I've been a member of the police for decades. A few decades and I know I've been getting a uniform, three, four uniforms every other year, and now the police are getting uniforms for five years, which are torn apart. It's a good thing you're predicting now, making a rule about appearances. I've fought before, when militiamen come to me at the time, hair to shoulder, he's all dirty, he's messy, but that's why I've been calling for review and their wives to see their boys send them to the service. So, there's nothing about earrings, about those hairs on your shoulder, but please, it's all a prerequisite. You have to provide pre-conditions, and that's material financial support to the police. Second, when it comes to traffic police, more cops have to be on the street. Where are the cops? Then we have a shortage of police, traffic. Whenever there's traffic, people can't come home for three hours from work when they come back. Where's the police to help at the intersections? Second, in my day, I didn't let you see the car in front of the bar, the police. To the soul, at that time they were finer, so someone could hide it. Now you have, thank God, the police have got new cars and that's good, but it's not enough. He still needs the police cars, but there's something you need to understand. When it comes to the Traffic Safety Act, please, this is not an amendment to the law. This is a new law. The interventions are in 251 members. Please, these are interventions that are absolutely unacceptable. No one can understand this. In two years, this law, on this many pages, won't be able to be understood by cops or judges who apply this. This is practically a new law, and when it comes to making a new law or a proposal to amend a new law, you have to hire top experts and experienced police officers who will, in any case, propose a proper, short and clear law to the National Assembly. This much material looks more like a scientific work, I can't put it into scientific work, but in any case, I can't accept that this is an amendment and an addition. You have, gentlemen of the ministry, how is that possible, changes and additions of one member to five pages? Say, who is it that went to the National Assembly to change one member to five pages? It's not there. I was an initiator in the preparation of a number of laws, but we couldn't let this happen. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must take care of the integrity of the police here. You have to pay the police more if you want the police to protect this country. Mr. Minister, I have a question for you. Tell me, please, how many officials and personalities are provided in the Republic of Serbia? How many members of the police are engaged in security? Is every dwarf looking for security today? Does Cedomir Jovanovic have security? If there's one, on what grounds? How old is he already? Why would you allow that? First of all, they're wasting huge material resources. You see, if a clerk, or a clerk, or a former head of staff who left office, is now given a security detail - how much does it cost? Is that under control by the finance minister? It's got to be controlled.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29165	You're bringing the end, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29166	I'd like to tell you something else about the increase in these mandates. In fact, it's inappropriate for some penalties to increase 100%, from five thousand to ten. There's only one thing that changes the circumstances. And what changed, what changed the circumstances of the law that was passed in 2016 and now? It's too much punishment. Fight and don't fall under the influence of the finance minister, just to fill the budget, but to make the fines appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29167	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29168	A lot of the things you said we did apply, both through this law and through operational procedures at the Ministry. Today, apart from the ministry's political post, it is possible to bring someone who is a political official to the cabinet and to those places that are scheduled to be elected by the minister, but not in the police. In the line of police, because of a law that provides for career advancement, a way of competitive income, today you can no longer set someone off the street, so to speak, or from another profession, into the ranks of the police. Because, after career advancement, anyone who gets a job has to start with the first scale. So, he has to climb up, like you said, and he's got to become first shift leader, sector chief, assistant chief, deputy chief, then climb up the ladders more. As far as the equipment is concerned, it's a good thing we don't have any more cops going to be torn apart. Everybody's got new uniforms. We've already got a full uniform for police intervention units, where there are some, roughly, four and a half thousand people, a complete gendarme, a complete traffic police force, border police. Of course, since these uniforms we've been getting over the past two years are still in the resource, we're also assessing in agreement with the Police Directorate, we've agreed on a way to never actually get into a situation to tear them apart again and then think about the renewal. There's more models. Our good co-operation is with Jumko, as a state-owned, domestic company, who sews for the military and so far the quality of these uniforms has proved appropriate. Of course, there is a special, qualitative commission, both in the Ministry and in the Directorate, which sees everything. That goes for the shoes, too. We're trying to provide police with enough quality uniforms to protect them from all weather conditions. If it was still ideal, it wasn't. We try, of course, by respecting the tender procedure, to always choose all those who are most favourable, but also to respect quality, because it is important to me that people wear shoes that do not miss water and will serve them. We'd better buy good shoes that will use more years than have a problem with them every two years. As for the salary, the officer's salary today, no past work, is about 49,000 dinars. So it's a minimum officer's salary and it's already a decent salary today. I'm not saying it's all wonderful, I'm not saying that that salary couldn't be higher, but 49,000 dinars, no past work, so basically that salary comes to around 50,000 dinars at least a month for every member who works as a police officer. As far as protected persons are concerned, I faced this problem myself when I became Minister of the Interior, at least in the part of what it was like to look at the financial effects of it. The assessment of whether a protected person is bringing in services, so the Police Directorate and other security services, which, on request, or the Police Directorate, or the Criminal Police, or the D.A.'s office, or the competent national authority, bring in a security assessment, sees all levels of threat. We generally don't talk, it's our policy and practice, and we're going to keep it that way, about individual personalities, whether they're currently protected or not, and what security measures are, because we think that would potentially endanger their safety further. We used to cut some people's security without anyone knowing that, because we don't want to advertise it in the paper -- well, we cut his security, great, if someone gave it up, so now he might remember that someone is in danger of safety, he won't do it. I agree that there have been cases where we've abolished security, the Director of the Police and myself. Something I could, by my decision, by law, be the director of the police, based on an estimate, of course. We shut down security for some people who had a formal security detail that they were introduced to, say, 15 years ago, 10, 12 or 14. They had security because of some security disturbances they had at the time. The assessment was done, security services said there was no more threat to their safety – no need to have security. In Serbia, there is this fama about status symbol and security. Of course, there's also an interest in someone with a security detail, and there's the Ministry of the Interior's car, and there's someone who drives it, they're using state fuel. Of course, we have to be very responsible about this, and we've been working really hard to redistribute security, especially because we want to keep these people where we need them in the police department, but, of course, rationally in accordance with the law, we plan and deploy people who do this job. Not to be someone's fashion detail, but to be where those personalities are really threatened and there's a risk of something happening to them because our country's job is to ensure everyone's safety, no matter who these people are. As far as these penalties are concerned, we've been thinking about this, especially about the Traffic Safety Act, of course it's one of the elements that we're thinking about and the economic element, or the paying power of citizens. But it's very simple, nothing costs you a seat belt. Then there's zero fines. There's no need to pay the dinars. You drive by the limit, you tie your seat belt, you don't drink alcohol, you stick to the law, there's no death, there's no death. We're here in the Hall of the Assembly, I hope you've had a chance to see, we've done a small exhibition of images of horrible photographs that have been taken over the years, of course, we've protected all the data that can lead to the discovery of personality data, irresponsible driving can lead to such consequences, crushed cars and lost lives. So we tried to point out and emphasize the punishment of those phenomena that lead most to the loss of life. Unfortunately, detachment of the belt, as banal as it seems, has a terrible effect on that. Speed, alcohol, belt – three things that are incredibly complex and seem so simple. We already have a provision through the Law of Infractions that allows if the punishment is paid within eight days, it is paid in one half of its amount. We tried to show people how important it is that they don't have to tie their seat belts because they're going to pay 5,000 or 10,000 dinars, but they're going to have to tie their belts to themselves and to their child and to everyone driving in the vehicle to stay alive. It's not always up to you. You drive responsible, you drive according to the law, there's someone who doesn't, goes through the red, hits you, and you, instead of staying, you fly through the glass, you lose your life, and if you tied your seat belt, maybe that effect would be far easier. Then we wanted to draw people's attention a little bit. You remember when this measure was introduced for the first time, it wasn't the first time, but when there was a sharper punishment tied to the belt, the whole of Serbia was tied up. The fine goes to 5.00 dinars, everyone ties their belts, and that has given effect. But then people slowly stopped, mic by mic, and again we came to the level that a small number of people tied the safety belt and made statistics worse. Just when we analyzed the causes of mortality and, of course, human injury, one of the significant causes was the non-binding of the safety belt. So we decided that no matter how popular I am, we decided to take this move to try to save as many lives as possible. I simply hope that, when we look at it, and I agree with the MPs who were in the discussion yesterday, that it is necessary that we from time to time look at the effects of the law that we are making, their results. When we look at the effects of this, we'll be able to get ahead of you, hopefully within a year, with analysis, whether on the board or on the tide, what this measure has brought and whether we've saved more lives. If it turns out that way, then, of course, we should keep working. We do it through school and education. We should consider how other ways to act preventively, i.e. to educate children to their parents, that this belt is not a bogeyman, that it is nothing bad, that it binds in both front and rear seats, but that it can save lives, as we have, of course, predicted seats or coasters for children, depending on their age and height. We already have new generations of those youngest who will no longer ride if their seat belts are not tied. They already know it's important to them. They may not see why it's like that today, at full capacity, but they know it's standard procedure, they come in, they sit down, they bond. When it's automated for all of us, I believe we'll have a lot more road safety. Anyway, thank you for some of the things I've heard from you today and I know what you've been doing in your career, thank you for the correct advice and I think we'll be able to use some of these things anyway. (Petar Jojic: Replica. I'm just asking you to add something. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29169	You have no right to the replica of your colleague Jojic. You have no right, the minister spoke highly of your discussion. You can't, I wish you had, there will be discussions in particular. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29170	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, co-workers of ministers, colleagues and colleagues, in the rest of my time, I will only speak of the Road Traffic Safety Act, and I can say that, in my opinion, this law is the fruit of a detailed analysis and responsible approach over the past period. I believe it is to a large extent the attention of the most vulnerable traffickers, which are children, young people, motorcyclists and pedestrians. I'm saying this because statistics from previous years indicate that youth participation in tragic accidents is expressed, as much as 15%. Therefore, it is justified to amend the Law in that part where the conditions for obtaining an independent driving licence are tightened. When I say that, I mean two parts, first of all, to extend the period of validity of the test driver's license and the ban on driving vehicles whose power exceeds 80 kilowatts. I also support the proposal to reduce the permitted level of blood alcohol tolerance in drivers from 0.3 to 0.2 proms, and to define the state of total alcoholism as a type of violent driving. This is important because we all know that alcohol, or alcohol, is one of the main causes of fatal accidents. I've heard here and regrets that the fines for some traffic violations are high, but I can't agree with those assessments, but we need to find a way to reduce the risk of traffic loss. You've spoken about it a little while ago, and I'm going to repeat that the easiest thing to do is to respect traffic regulations. Such traffic participants will not have the opportunity to pay a fine, but on the other hand we must be aware, after all, that the purpose of compliance with traffic rules is not to pay a fine but to not endanger anyone, to preserve ourselves to preserve other traffic participants. Traffic, i.e. traffic security, is a living one, and I would say, a dynamic area, is certainly why in the future we will discuss and consider some new changes to this law, perhaps in the near future, and therefore I would like to suggest that a long-term solution is needed with auto-school representatives. In a few months ago, I was contacted by representatives of a car school from the Kingdom, my city, and an auto-school from Belgrade, and they consider it necessary to amend the legal provisions that prescribe that instructors, interrogators and lecturers should take a test of knowledge every five years to renew their work permit, or license. Surely the profession should be respected, for for example, driving instructors must have a fifth degree of professional training and passed the instructor's exam in order to even apply for the licence. I believe that they should also initiate instructors and lecturers, respondents, to participate more actively in the preparation for seminars and to define the problems and issues that will be at these seminars, which is a condition for obtaining, or renewing a work license. It encourages the good intentions of the MUP that we could see during the previous period when it is a motion procedure to amend the rule governing the passing of exams, verify the knowledge, which is a condition for restoring driving instructors, interrogators, lecturers. So I can only finally say that we should continue in this direction, to find the best legal solution with a good discussion and a good quality conversation in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29171	Thank you. The word is from the peoples of the Parliament of Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29172	Thank you, Chairman. I'll take the opportunity to read to you on March 8th, as well as to my distinguished colleagues. First of all, I would like to congratulate the MUP on all the draft laws that are on the agenda, because they are indeed the result of a comprehensive work of experts, for all these draft laws that you have sent to the National Assembly, it took both time and effort and of course consent and understanding with all the entities that participated, of course and interested parties in the creation of the bill itself. I will dedicate my discussion to one of the most extensive and certainly, we can say, more complex laws in our legislation, which is the Law on traffic safety on the roads. In 2009, when it was adopted by reputation, of course to the most developed countries in Europe, but also in the world, it introduced a brand-new concept of traffic security management. Since its application since 2010, in fact in 2010, it was also the first breaking year of law enforcement, we have managed to even halve the number of casualties on our roads. Trends of injuries and reductions in the number of car accidents, the fact is that it decreases year after year, but certainly our statistics in relation to the countries of Europe are not at an enviable level. The 2015 traffic security strategy defined the direction of further improvement in road safety and certainly needed some legal solutions for this realization. In this proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Safety Act, these solutions are proposed as well as some of the solutions resulting from road safety analysis. Statistics on the Republic of Serbia suggest that the most common causes of traffic accidents are irregular and unadjusted speed, carrying out illegal traffic operations, failure to comply with the right of passing championships, psycho-physical condition of drivers, especially drivers under alcohol, but also irregular walking in August. When it comes to drivers solving the problem of young and inexperienced drivers, I would say that it is one of the objectives of these amendments and the addition of the law. According to official statistics in Serbia as well as in Europe, frequent driving accidents are young drivers, usually drivers aged 18 to 25 with an average of three years of driving experience. Inexperience, thoughtlessness, of course, and emotional maturity, but also the way of life influences traffic accidents in this category to occur more often. In 2016 119 people aged 15 to 30 died, which accounts for 20% in the total number of deaths, and this category accounts for 32% of the total number of injured. All of this pointed to the need for special measures, and my colleagues already mentioned measures such as tightening the conditions for driving a motor vehicle by drivers with a test driver’s license, extending the period of validity of the test driver’s licence as well as other measures that will certainly affect the quality of the road injuries. When it comes to young generations, our focus must certainly be prevention and education. The application of this law since 2009 has introduced a number of obligations for traffic participants, in criminal provisions or different preventive measures, and this is important to point out today, is the reduced loss of the most vulnerable category of traffic participants, and these are children. This reduction trend should certainly be commended and I believe that, as are the most vulnerable categories of the youngest, we will succeed in the next period in increasing the deaths of older people over 65 years will be able to reduce. This draft law provides for the introduction of traffic education and education. In the curricula and primary and secondary school programmes, and I believe this will reflect their safety and developed awareness of traffic safety. Second, an important step in education is training, i.e. training candidates for drivers, because it has a special place in the traffic safety system. Quality training of future drivers depends naturally on the quality of the services provided by licensed car schools, providing by law and sublaw with all prescribed standards. Due to the irresponsible business of certain car schools in previous years, it is proposed to introduce an information system for training candidates for drivers that implies a system for the delivery of training data to the central base of the MUP, but also an audio-video system for conducting theoretical examinations. This was necessary precisely because of the abuses I mentioned, since we have to make a distinction between those car schools that are very responsible for their actions, unlike the legal persons, who offer their services for a lower price, deny candidates for laying down and training from theoretical training. What will facilitate and also benefit future drivers is the application, as far as I understand it will be part of this information system, it is a modern, tailored approach to new generations where future candidates will have the opportunity to have a simulation of theoretical exams. The candidate training system is indisputable, depending on the price, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted the amendment to this occasion, in fact, in addition to the proposal for a defined lowest price of training that protects candidates for training, we feel it is necessary to prescribe the lowest cost of training, thus guaranteeing a minimum standard for car schools prescribed by law. Speaking of training candidates, I would especially like to highlight the training of candidates in first aid that was also introduced in 2009, in order to improve the overall training of candidates for drivers, and of course in order to save human lives and reduce the consequences of car accidents. Unlike theoretical and practical training, whose price is predicted and the current law so far has not been prescribed the cost of training and the first aid test. This lack in previous years has led to a number of abuses in practice by institutions that do not implement first aid training at all, and issue certificates on candidates, as well as institutions that carry out training with doctors who are not trained to train laymen in first aid by reducing the cost of training, performing fewer lessons than the law provided for. Decision in Article 96 The draft law would further devalue the importance of first aid training, as well as the binding segment of education and training of future drivers, and we therefore proposed that this amendment should provide for regulation and minimum and maximum cost of first-aid training and exams, as we will thus ensure a minimum of the standards prescribed by law. The traffic safety system, of course, also gives a special place to technical examinations of motor and connected vehicles. The share of this traffic safety factor is not small, and the constant trend of the increase in the number of vehicles indicates its even greater importance, especially given the age of our fleet that has been passing for 15 years. The share of the vehicle, as traffic accident factors, is down to a minimum of 3% to 5%, however, this percentage is significantly higher and usually occurs only in the artificial process. A solution similar to a solution when it comes to car schools, which is the introduction of a vehicle technical inspection and video surveillance system is something that was obviously necessary just to prevent certain abuses. These amendments and additions to the law, in fact, the PDO itself has contributed to the development of traffic infrastructure and has done a great deal by prescribing the obligation and obligation of road controllers, as well as regulations on the construction of infrastructure and maintenance of traffic signalling. Factors - the way, the environment is not in many ways covered by these amendments and additions to the law, and I really want to believe that in some future period we will have the opportunity to consider, together with the promoter or the government or the Ministry of Transport, some new legal solutions, first of all, concerning road infrastructure. I would take the opportunity to congratulate the Ministry, but first of all, the Department of Traffic Police on everything she's done in previous years in law enforcement, those provisions that are in their jurisdiction, and I believe she'll be working successfully in the future, since I have to leave time and my colleagues, I'll say something else. I would take the opportunity to look back on the JMBG bill in a few minutes, actually, Article 8. It's a bill of law. On this day six years ago, the Constitutional Court adopted a complaint allowing a transgender person to change her gender code in the ID card. The data says that 0.3% of the world's population is transgender, projected on our population, we would say that in Serbia, there are potentially 20,000 transgenders. In Serbia, for 25 years, hundreds of people have submitted to gender change procedures, and all the few have managed to be legally visible. Article 8(1) The proposal for a law in the field with the announced amendments and additions to the Law on Parent Books will allow legal visibility for persons changing gender or transgender persons. With this solution, the state will finally be able to solve the main problem, when it comes to these people, given that this is one of the most endangered categories in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29173	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29174	I just want to say briefly about the Traffic Safety Act. Although we are at the first moment, we have even refused some of the amendments related to passing exams every five years, related to technical checks and car schools, after consulting with our colleagues, we have decided to accept these amendments, and I will, no matter what the government has refused them in principle, accept these amendments, because we believe that this may be too much regulation for these categories and that we will nevertheless facilitate their work, so we will see if there are problems and if it creates any new problems, which we do not see now, I will again address the National Assembly with amendments, but I think at this point we can accept and respect this amendment that going to the seminar, professional training, to be a sufficient category, and not every five years to re-secrate the exams for the instructors, for these people who do so, for the technical examinations. I'll respect both categories. I think there's an amendment for both categories, I hope, because I don't want to include just one category, and if we don't have technical ones, then I'd like to ask the National Assembly that the committee in charge, or if there's a technical possibility that the committee in charge of this period should submit an amendment that is effectively regulated and technically this part of the text, so in that sense, I think we can do it together. Thanks for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29175	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29176	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today, in the framework of this joint search, I will discuss the draft law on the national DNA register. This law establishes and regulates the content of the national DNA register. This will be the register of the results of forensic-genetic analysis of biological material carried out for the purposes of criminal proceedings and the identification of missing or unknown persons, corpses or body parts. The reason for the adoption of this law is the binding provision of European regulations which oblige us to install the provisions of these regulations in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia with the instruments available. According to the National Programme for Integration in the EU, which was brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, police co-operation and the fight against organised crime, in addition, envisioned the establishment of a national DNA database, as a priority and enabling conditions for compliance with Interpol and Europol standards. Both Interpol and Europol have adopted standards of treatment in the exchange of DNA data and have been the same since 2010. The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia has been a full member of the European network of scientific forensic institutes since 2009, and DNA accreditation has been successfully completed. At the same time, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia is already keeping certain records under the Law on Police and is the owner of prestigious GEDNAP certificates applied by all prestigious forensic centres in the world, so that this reference laboratory in the MUP has the same technical capacity as European and world standards and has the necessary minimum capacity to implement this law, which merits all praise. Biologically artificial DNA analysis in police, prosecutorial and judicial practices provides unlimited opportunities for the detection of unknown perpetrators of crimes, while at the same time the possibility of eliminating individual suspects as perpetrators of crimes, as well as the elimination of innocent suspects. This method is also used to identify the identities of unknown, missing persons and the identification of corpses. Contemporary methods of DNA identification of individuals are very sensitive and highly specific, so that the minimum amount of biological material that is not even visible in the usual conditions of observation is sufficient for artificially. Namely, DNA or deoxyribonucleic acid is the primary genetic material and it is the primary carrier of genetic information, i.e. A gene in a living being. As there are no two people with the same fingerprint, so there are no two people with the same genetic profile, except in the case of identical twins, which science and profession have proven. Therefore, identification of persons based on artificial DNA is considered to be the most efficient identification technique of persons, i.e. Suspects based on biological material that remained at the scene of execution and are irreplaceable in lighting and evidence of criminal offences. Based on DNA analysis, both animals and plants can be identified, because all of them, except for some viruses, have DNA. By passing this law in one place, data would be collected on all material traces containing DNA, which were analysed in various court proceedings. On the other hand, the international community of the EU, Interpol and Europol insist on uniform practice, so that data can be exchanged effectively in accordance with laws and international agreements, which is of great importance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. By passing this law, we achieve two goals. The first is the creation of a normative basis for a more efficient and economic criminal procedure, and the second is to ensure full protection of human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and international acts. These legal solutions will, above all, affect the quality of criminal proceedings in terms of a single DNA database, for the purposes of evidence actions in the process of comparing artificial results. The proposed legislative solutions will affect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in terms of a higher percentage of the lighting of criminal offences and a higher degree of security and security of citizens. The DNA labs will be obliged to provide the results of the DNA analysis carried out both to the authority of the procedure and to the forensic service of the Ministry of Interior, which, in accordance with this law, will be responsible for establishing and running a single national DNA base. It is also important to mention the financial aspect of this law, as it will reduce the costs of court proceedings, as well as unnecessary skills that are sometimes doubled. The laboratory which has carried out the DNA analysis under the order of the oral procedure shall, at the same time as the reports of the craftsmanship submitted, provide the authority with the DNA profiles and the available identification data of the MUP for the purposes of the entry into the register. If the laboratory is not accredited in the event of taking a biological sample for DNA analysis purposes, one sample of the undeniable sample must be submitted to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the bill is good and necessary, and the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day, as well as the other proposals in this search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29177	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29178	The draft law amending and supplementing the Police Act, four questions, one remark, where the observation is essentially related to one of the issues, with the hope that your answers will help me to be clearer, more importantly, to make it clearer to all those to whom the law will directly apply. So the first question is why is the time extended for sublaws? So I understand it's going on, and why? The issue is related to the observation that the conditions under which police officers are being recorded are missing. I'm going to sound relatively unnatural to you now, but I'm extremely opposed to the idea that was introduced, that recording the work of police officers solves problems. I think that measure will prove to be bad in places where there are several years, because it could be in some sublegal act, although I think it should be in the law. The second question about the deadline for the sublaws, here to repeat that I stand firm that every draft law should be entered with a proposal for a sublegal act. It's a way that we would really have a perfectly clear way of applying the law. With this deadline on sublaws, we will be discussing today, in the next day it will be voting day, and when the provisions of the law are actually applied, it depends on whether and when the sublegal acts are passed within a given time limit. The second question is about dignity for police service very important matter. I belong to those MPs who feel that our Assembly needs an ethical code, that the integrity of MPs is relatively easy to reach, and it is in one of the words that says "no", when someone asks you to do something that is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but in police officers or in the public offices of the police, it still differs. So is the angle of only security interference what defines it by dignity or has more criteria? Two questions that are probably not interesting for a wide audience, but I consider them important from the point of view of police functioning, as it should work in the future, these are changes in the work of the public of the disciplinary procedure sometimes and now, what is better in the law that is before us and changes in the work of the Internal Control Sector. There were all kinds of comments about that. I had to check the views that the MPs here shared, since I know that part of it is fascinated by internal control. It would be important for those who are directly subject to the measures laid down in this law to be made absolutely clear to them what the difference is if they are once or now in the Internal Affairs Sector. That would only be my question about that law. Some of the amendments you've accepted, we'll see how they change fundamentally the law. It is difficult to follow all the amendments that have been filed, but I will repeat only my appeal from the principle debate, which is that in the provision relating to the right to early retirement, to take into account the sublegal act and the officials employed here since 1988 in a more elastic way than it was applied directly by law, at the risk that someone else accused the minister of doing so voluntarily and because it had just so come to mind, but with a good sublegal act and on that part of the provisions in the law, I think it would really be a sense of justice for members of the service that have been there since 1988, however old they are now, it's easy to calculate, there are somewhere our years, the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29179	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29180	Unfortunately, I never have a good enough answer to extend my deadlines, it's always a thing that shouldn't happen. We started making sublaws for the previous law, and we couldn't even finish it. It's true, most of it is, but we're not part of it. However, since we have entered into the process of amending this law, we have then provided for an extension of deadlines for a year to be included in the actual and sublegal acts for this law. We'll try, of course, to make it shorter. We've had some changes systemically related to it, so I hope it will contribute to the faster work of everyone in the secretariat and others, to tell the authorities, which together with the Police Directorate are bringing these sublegal acts, but hopefully this time we'll do it in a short time and we'll justify this request. As for us, in the previous Law on Recording of Police Officers, we also had in the previous law in Article 52, which defines recording in public places, for the purpose of applying police powers, detecting violations and criminal acts, control and analysis of police operations, police may record police officers. In these changes, we are simply introducing audio and visual terms, so audio and video recording because, in the sense of the Code of Criminal Procedure, this required defining to be fully in accordance with the law, so that no one would question whether we had fully applied police authority. Of course, we have to be careful about that, and it's not our goal, of course, to play big brother or anyone who thinks that someone is now filming police officers from their boss, or, of course, the capacity to do that, because a relatively small number of people can even apply special investigative methods, but certainly it can't be done beyond the rules on the records and processing of data in the field of internal affairs, after all, which we are now bringing. So, police officers also have full protection in this sense that no one uncontrollably can process data about them or excessively. As far as we're concerned, we've brought in an ethical code of police officers, which predicts what police officers, how public behavior must exhibit, whether, I say, avoids any deviant form of social behavior that could damage their reputation and function, perform this profession, and we will try to do so, to say, affect all police officers to be maximumly committed to doing these tasks. We believe that, of course, in addition to what is a security disturbance that we have provided for in the law, that it is necessary to carry out, or above all, the entry into the Ministry of Interior and to carry out operations within the Ministry, that, in fact, these competences are psychological, physical capacity and everything else that is foreseen, that it is important, because the fact that the requirements of the MUP business are very high criteria, and therefore we believe that it is important that police officers not only at reception, but throughout their careers show these qualities, i.e. to avoid doing things that could compromise them in any way. I hope we've managed at least one part of these questions to clarify. One more thing related, there were questions about the disciplinary procedure. This has been mentioned several times in the debate, so the public of the disciplinary procedure has been guaranteed, except in cases of procedures where it could be a state secret. So, when it's a state secret, it can be discovered during the process. The public is excluded, but this does not exclude presence, for example. a union representative. Union representatives have the right to attend all procedures at any time, only in cases where the law proposes, when the factual procedure is required, to keep the information marked "confidentiality and secrecy", in these cases alone excludes the public. I say, it doesn't rule out presence, union representatives are always present, so they can be there. Of course we'll see, we'll analyze how this and I are interested in how, since we've had cases that during the procedure may be, since police officers have, or handle certain levels of confidential data, these confidential data will have to be protected during the process and therefore we've introduced it as a possibility. So, it must not be a practice and certainly we will have to make sure that no one abuses this institute, in order to first try to exclude the public from the disciplinary process. Unfortunately, I felt sorry for the fact that disciplines were rarely conducted, even in justified cases. I would much prefer that disciplinary proceedings were the basis for punishment, not to be a flat-rate assessment, but to carry out a full disciplinary procedure, where there is room for it, where it has a basis, so that some relationships, I say, are settled on those colleagues who have not acted in accordance with the regulations, or law. Of course, considering this and certainly the Director of Police heard, which is in fact responsible for this and all the elders within the police, we have in mind what is said and what is said, so that we will make sure that the public in absolutely the largest number of cases is involved, except in rare cases, when the secrecy of the data can be compromised, and is threatened in a more significant way than the prevailing interest, to protect itself, i.e. to allow the public of proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29181	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29182	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers and fellow Members of the People's Parliament have heard several times in these two days that these laws that are now on the agenda have been passed through serious preparations and procedures, primarily through working groups, professional, public debates and NGOs, but what I think is very important to point out today, this is one very important information, which is that countries in the region are making a similar set of such laws and meeting a number of problems when it comes to adoption, have just highlighted Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP, quote "as the best example of the participation of the interested public and civil sector organisations and parliament and that Serbia has created a space for good ideas in public debate. This is a very important commendation. Of course, we have heard many commendations today from MPs of position and opposition. These are laws that take care of every citizen, of human rights, of freedom, of security, of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and of foreigners, of all those who linger or just pass through our country, such as migrants and asylum seekers, and unfortunately, not so few victims of human trafficking. So we can really say that these are laws that are of great importance, and I'm glad we're making it this complicated, and we're probably going to vote this way and when it's time and voting day. What is very important to me is that migration from a few years ago did not, of course, leave a negative mark in the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the very government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry and other ministries. This, of course, has caused changes to be made on the foreign law issue, but Serbia has set standards without this legal framework that one state should treat migrants who are passing through its country and for that, we are proud of that, of course. As far as the Police Act is concerned, there are also a number of amendments, a number of provisions change both in career progress, security checks, new reception conditions, much increased, or criteria for entry into the MUP. This will all lead to improving the quality of work of employees in the MUP, as well as restoring the maximum confidence of citizens in this institution and the police of the Republic of Serbia. I wanted to especially highlight today the law that probably caused the most public attention, which is the Traffic Safety Act. In addition to all those changes we've heard today, and that's about reducing the flow of alcohol allowed in the blood, it means from 0.3 to 0.2, which means one small glass of alcohol and only then can we sit down and drive. The best thing to do is to avoid that, too. Then, significant penalties for overspeed have been increased, especially in populated areas. They've been increased, we've heard it for a respected minister for what reason, penalties for non-binding belts and use of mobile phones and many other changes. I would especially refer to the changes that concern children, and that is the obligation for children in cars to use so-called. seats, i.e. seating mats if they are older than four years and 135 centimeters. The analyses have shown that parents do not take seriously child restraints in the back seat, but unfortunately, they have shown that in low children of four years and slightly higher age, usually belts are tied around their necks and this leads to severe consequences during car accidents. That's why, parents, you take it seriously that children have to sit on coasters, because that's how their height rises, and the seat belt binds over their shoulders, where it needs to be. Also, all the praises of the MUP for working on education and prevention when it comes to young people, meaning, in the fourth and sixth grade of primary school, and we have heard that since this school year, or next year, it will start from the first grade. So, the MUP together with teachers and teachers conduct training on how to behave safely and in traffic, how to behave in emergency situations, the threats of drug traffickers, violence and violence on the Internet, means, anything that threatens them from all sides, the MUP along with their teachers will guide them to what they can expect and how to behave in such moments. As for young people, so, with test permits, and there are newspapers, so, that young, zero tolerance for alcohol and phone calls and no driving between 23 hours and six o'clock in the morning. And there are a number of new provisions, of course, we'll talk about them when it comes to detail. But in any case, I would like to point out that the previous Traffic Safety Act, and in particular this, we expect from him, has led to a reduction in the number of accidents and deaths in traffic by 10% to 15% a year. Of course, our goal is to bring that number down to almost zero, and especially not to let our children get hurt on the roads. What's very important is that I point out and once again congratulate the MUP on such good bill proposals and everyone who worked on them. I would also like to congratulate Minister Stefanovic especially on every task he has entrusted, which with the greatest engagement works and, of course, with the best results and as minister and, of course, as chairman of the SNS City Committee. And congratulations again on the extraordinary results in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29183	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. He's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29184	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would simply like to commend the proposed draft laws from the jurisdiction of the MUP. I think they're really good and that there are no objections to the opposition that there wasn't enough time to study and deliver any objections and suggestions. I will talk about a problem that no one has talked about today and that has been plagued by a large number of Serbian citizens. In Serbia, more than 5,000 Serbs live in Croatia, which because of misrepresented citizenship could not achieve the right to Croatian citizenship. It is about citizens born in Serbia until 1991, therefore, until war, whose parents are Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, by mistake of civil servants in the home service, these citizens were enrolled at the time of birth as citizens of federal Serbia, not citizens of federal Croatia, which is contrary to the law. I'll quote Article 22. The law on the citizenship of the SFRY, which clearly stands – Republican citizenship is determined by the law of the Republic whose nationality both parents have at the time of his birth. So all these citizens had to be registered as citizens of federal Croatia under the law. That's not what happened, unfortunately. After breaking the former Yugoslavia, the 5,000 Serbs were in trouble, as Croatia has been refusing to allow them to enter the book of citizens of the Republic of Croatia for 25 years. They're facing a number of problems. I'll list some of those problems. These are all citizens originating in the region of Krajina. Most of their parents who are old and powerless live there, and they simply cannot help them because they do not have the possibility of staying in Croatia. Then, they have complications about exercising the right to property, to houses, to land and other immovable property. Also, while going to Croatia, they have to keep applying to the Croatian MUP, as if they were some convicts. We even have cases of citizens living in third countries, e.g. in Austria, which must, in order to go to Croatia, visit their hometown, apply for a work visa or even have to pass some tests for tuberculosis and similar nonsense. These people have been trying, I repeat, for 25 years to address the competent parent services in Serbia. However, they were always rejected by the argument that they had no right to be corrected in the birth certificate. I will list two examples of discrimination against these citizens. Vesna Stankovic, born in 1960 in Sibenik, is a Croatian citizen, the father of a Serbian citizen. By the error of the governing body, it is registered as a citizen of Serbia, I repeat, contrary to then applicable regulations. It was to be registered as a national of the Federal Republic of Croatia by birth. According to the Law on the Citizenship of the National Republic of Croatia of 1950, which was a force at the time of its birth, so in 1960, if one parent is a Croatian citizen and another citizen of another republic of the former SFRY, then the child will be a national of Croatia, if parents do not agree differently, and they did not agree. Unfortunately, Vesna Stankovic, from 1960 to today, has failed to establish her right to enter the book of Croatian citizens, although the law at the time allowed it to do so. We have a second case of Marko Dobric, who was born on June 6, 1984, and at the time of his birth, both parents had Croatian citizenship. Twenty days later, on June 26th 1984, he was registered as a Serbian citizen. He could not have been registered under the aforementioned Law on Citizenship in the SFRY, which I was talking about, since both of his parents had Croatian citizenship. This was based on Article 4 of the then applicable Law on Nationality of the Republic of Croatia, he became an automatic citizen of Croatia at the time of birth. Both Croatia's MUP and the first-degree court in the process Dobric launched to determine Croatian citizenship. However, the wrong entry of data into Serbian citizenship 20 days later, according to Croatia's MUP and the first-degree court, interrupted the continuity of Croatian citizenship, and after that entry it cannot be considered according to the Croatian citizen's point of view. I repeat, he, Dobric, and over 5,000 other Serbs could not get Serbian citizenship, either with regular reception, because at the time of submission, Serbia's person must be at least 18 years old, and Marko Dobric had only 20 days. So it is obvious here that officials in the administrative authorities in the home services made a huge mistake and made the lives of thousands of Serbs originating in Croatia bitter. According to the European Court of Human Rights in the "Gashi" case against Croatia, it is said – the risk of any mistake made by the state body should be borne by the state, and failures must not be taken to the detriment of the citizen concerned. I think the solution is to propose an amendment to the proposed law on amendments to the Law on Citizenship. I would like to thank the Association for the Protection of Constitutionality and legislability, which has been prepared by this amendment, which I have submitted to the said law. The amendment reads: "The citizen of the Republic of Serbia is considered a SFRJ citizen who, on the day of the declaration of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on 27 April 1992, had residence in the territory of Yugoslavia and children of that citizen born after that date, and contrary to the provisions of the Law on Citizenship of the SFRY was entered in the register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The person referred to in Article 1 shall have the right to request the correction of the data on citizenship, the birth certificate and the correction of the basis for the entry in the register of citizens of RS. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So, I would like to ask Minister Stefanovic and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support my amendment in the day of voting, because, I repeat, this amendment, which I have read, would bring more than 5,000 Serbs from Croatia who would now have the opportunity to finally make amends in a book born in Serbia, to enroll themselves as citizens of Federal Croatia, and to be the basis for them to acquire Croatian citizenship, while at the same time convalitating, i.e. to confirm their Serbian citizenship. I hope that Mr Stefanovic and fellow MPs will have this very important thing in mind and that we will really enable these citizens to finally, after 20, 25 years of nudity and unsuccessful attempts to achieve their right to finally welcome that day to solve this problem, thereby facilitating themselves to solve a number of problems in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29185	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. He's not here. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29186	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's set of laws brings the necessary adjustments, innovations and a more comprehensive approach to resolving issues in the field of the work of the MUP. I'm going to look back at a few segments that she's singled out as key to the proposed changes. The law on single birth numbers is a new legal solution in this area, since the applicable law was passed at the time of the existence of the SFRY. The most important thing is that the project "Bebo Welcome to the World" has been implemented under this law, which makes it easier for parents to report a newborn child into the record. From the proposed amendments and additions to the laws in the procedure, I would point out that, in addition to harmonising with EU legislation, security mechanisms are regulated with respect to the reputation of the state and the protection of fundamental human rights, the fight against cross-border crime is improved through the establishment of an information system of border control, the procedure with a reduction of taxis is shortened, in order to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship assurance, regardless of the place of residence, raising the level of security and awareness of citizens through measures of punishment, ignition, pyrotechnics and firearms. The most important newspapers reflect security in traffic where alcohol tolerance is reduced, overspeed, violent driving, increased responsibility for child transportation. I would especially point out that it is very important to introduce zero tolerance to alcohol for young drivers. No driving from 23 to six in the morning because this ban protects them from themselves. What is particularly pointed out in the draft amending the Law on Police is the exclusive right to use the name police, which only has the Ministry of Defence and the exclusive right to use dark blue uniforms. They are also precise business performed by the MUP through the addition of its competence. After this comprehensive analysis, I must point out that the police with other state authorities and security forces had a very difficult task, but managed to ensure in the previous period that citizens do not feel the consequences of the severe migrant crisis that we had in our country, that the number of crimes in the area of organised crime has been reduced. The MPs have just lit up a large number of affairs and, most importantly, the perpetrators have been processed. Every day we witness a large number of actions in preventing crimes, we witness the participation of police officers in the preservation of school children's safety, the members of the MUP are fully involved in the fight against domestic violence in accordance with the same name law. The foreign ministry has achieved great success in co-operation in international actions that have given great support in the process of harmonising obligations with the Action Plan for Chapter 24. However, I must point out that the process of modernising all the authorities of the MUP and improving the working conditions of the employees in the MUP is just being made possible by advocating the previous and this government. I must point out that this particular government has allowed 600 young people who have been trained in police affairs to be employed in the past, 150 of whom are graduates from the Police and Criminal Academy. The employees of the MUP have been restored to dignity. For this it was necessary to endure and go through the process of recovery and return to the right values. That is why it continues to equip police administrations throughout Serbia, with the purchase of new vehicles, computers and techniques. The interior ministry has received 710 new cars. The government has increased the salary of employees in the sector by 10% and has made bonus payments possible in Serbia. The spring begins with a project to build apartments in six cities, and right for employees of police, military and BIA. I will say the information, which our President Aleksandar Vukic pointed out, that 20,000 are employees of the MUP without a settled housing issue. This government takes care of its citizens and anyone who leads the way to the Republic of Serbia. I congratulate you on that. I hope that Serbia's MUP will process criminals who are being arrogant as soon as possible, because they think they are untouchable, so that justice is served and that the citizens of Serbia know that in this country the law is the same for everyone. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29187	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29188	Thank you. To rely on the debate that Minister Stefanovic and I had yesterday. First of all, I would like to commend the minister that, not only to me, but to everyone, as far as I can see, he answers the questions that they have, which I must also point out, is not the case with all the ministers in this government. Furthermore, as far as the answer is concerned, regarding the Law on the Single Origin Number of Citizens, I can understand the argument. Of course, none of us are intended to increase the costs associated with the replacement of all documents, but I still urge that we do not wait for a long period of time to even start thinking about it, because we're going to miss another window where it's best to do it again. Besides, that I.D.'s been going on for 10 years, so we don't have to set a deadline and say it has to be replaced within five years. We keep extending those deadlines, just like last time we changed in 2011. Finally, the deadline extended until the end of 2016. Maybe we can start, first, this period of preparation that will take some time, but right now, to say at some point -- come on, now it's going to start with that, so those citizens who are concerned and who want to protect their personal data as soon as possible, they're going to hurry up and do it, and the rest of them can do it when the document expires. I'm just worried that we might forget about it again because now is not the time, but that we're going somewhere now with the preparations. As far as the National DNA registry Act, as I understand it, we couldn't pass a more detailed law on this occasion, because then he would disagree with Criminal Law. Now I'd like to suggest something for the next time. It's too late this time. You know, there is a possibility in the Assembly of uniting the debates of laws that are interrelated and conditional and that possibility exists, Minister Stefanovic knows it very well, he was president of the Assembly, precisely for situations like this. I understand that there's probably another ministry in charge here, but I guess you're talking to each other in the government, and in that sense I'm not ready to accept that as an excuse, but I'm willing to accept what the minister said, which is that he'll make sure that the change of that law comes as soon as possible to the National Assembly, so that we can then complete this National DNA Act, because I unfortunately don't doubt that we're going to get this, such a well-written, unspeakable law passed. Because if I've learned anything in these two years, it's that my fellow MPs all the things from the executive government, as a bill of law, come by automatism, vote. It has not yet happened that something has been withdrawn, despite the appeals when it was certainly necessary and logical to pull something back and work it out. So, unfortunately, I don't appeal to them, but I do seem to be appealing to the executive authority of this matter, so that the sooner we get back together, the sooner we get a motion to amend the Criminal Code, with changes and additions to this law as we are about to bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29189	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29190	Dear Mrs. Stamenkovic, I am pleased that we are on the same track about JMBG and we are factual, and yesterday, after our debate, I told my colleagues to start considering co-operation with one of the international institutions that through project financing can help at least some stage of it. I agree that if we just wait, that moment will never come, and it will always be expensive, because we have estimated the costs of about 30 million euros, which is a really large amount, but we have the opportunity to start and what I think we can, therefore, already in fact be the first phase. We will try to look at what we can internationally get in support, and what we can do ourselves, even if we start this process, even if we realize it in five years – in five years, but it's not bad to realize it. There really is a basis to protect citizens' personal data. As for the Law on DNA registers, we also said that we believe that there is a fact that an element can be fixed by prescribing a direct measure that is actually prescribed when deleting certain data from the DNA register. At this point, a task force has been formed to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure. So there will be one larger number of members changed. We have invested what is our part, as the Ministry of the Interior, our initiative has gone, among other things, and for this part, because it touches our law. Then certainly, when this law, which I say, is very important for the police, when it is changed, and we hope by the end of the year that we can see one quality amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I will suggest that certainly one of the institutes will be a united debate on the amendments of this member of the Law on DNA registers, because it is important that we have no doubt that any abuse can occur. So we're going that way. Thank you, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29191	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. There's only one minute and 40 seconds left for your MP group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29192	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, in the remainder of time, I will take the opportunity to present some information from the Transport Safety Strategy for the Vrbas Municipality for the period from 2016 to 2020, which confirms the justification of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Transport Safety Act. The strategy states that young people are the most endangered age category of traffic participants. The presence of alcohol and psychoactive substances is one of the four most common causes of traffic accidents in the territory of the Vrbas municipality in all types of traffic accidents. In addition to this, statistics for the Vrbas municipality from 2011 to 2015 show that cyclists make up 18% of the total number of deaths, that children are the most endangered as passengers in the Vrbas municipality, that irregular and unadjusted speed is a leading influence factor contributing to the occurrence of car accidents with fatal consequences with about 72%. The total cost of traffic accidents in the territory of the municipality of Vrbas in relation to the consequences of the traffic accidents between 2010 and 2015 is 21,339,533 euros. Given the data I provided, the Vrbas municipality introduced a very efficient model of financing traffic security from fines paid for traffic violations, which directly enables security to be financed. Finally, honourable MPs, I would like to thank all the colleagues who took the opportunity to congratulate March 8th, since March 8th is a socialist race, and I would like to remind myself that it also symbolizes the fight for equality, solidarity, eight-hour working time and the right to vote, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29193	Thank you, colleague. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. He's not here. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29194	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry and the government of Serbia, honourable MPs and MPs, are ahead of us with a set of draft laws in the field of internal affairs. These are long and carefully prepared bill proposals, all are in regular procedures and are adopted with the aim of preserving the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their property, as well as the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms. These laws, when adopted, will ensure the creation of conditions for the modern institutional democratic and efficient functioning of police in the protection of the rights and freedoms of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One group of laws such as the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Asylum and Temporary Protection, the Law on Border Control when adopted will be very important for the EU accession process, because they represent the realisation of our action plan. The second group of laws among which the Law on the Registration and Processing of Data in Internal Affairs, the Law on the National DNA Register, the JMBG Law, are laws that regulate the processing and exchange of electronic personal data when adopted, and the Law on Police regulates the established national criminal and intelligence system as a single data exchange platform between all authorities involved in the fight against the most serious forms of crime, but also allows the Republic of Serbia to exchange data with other EU countries and beyond. I'll say something briefly about some bill proposals, not all of them. First, the draft law on foreigners, the applicable law in this area on foreigners, was adopted in 2008. Certain shortcomings and inaccuracies have been observed. The migration processes that take place in the world, which have not passed either the Republic of Serbia, require more attention and commitment in legislation because of the potential danger of terrorist threat to the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and beyond. This law will more precisely regulate the introduction of a BIA security-intelligence agency into this area as a state body whose jurisdiction is the security verification of foreigners in order to determine the existence of a security risk per citizen of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the proposal for a law on asylum and temporary protection, it is important that when this law is adopted, legal solutions and standards will be harmonised with EU legislation, human rights of migrants are protected, but also regulate their rights and obligations as they lie in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and others. The draft law on border control before us promotes the concept of integrated border management, along with other laws in this area, provides a high degree of security for the Republic of Serbia. The law regulates and introduces a border control information system that provides conditions for facilitating the movement and control of goods and people across the state border and enables more effective border checks to prevent cross-border crime and irregular migration. The draft law on the records and processing of data in the interior area is also ahead of us and regulates the way and norms, processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and foreigners. The MUP is otherwise, we already know, the handler of the largest databases on citizens. This law covers all records of the person(s) available to the MUP, all in order to comply with obligations to international institutions, and more importantly, according to our legislation in the field of protection of personal data, and respecting the specificities relating to the security sector. The envisaged legal solutions shall provide for the protection of personal data processed in the records of the MUP against all forms of abuse. The bill on the national DNA register is in front of us. It's a new area. This law will for the first time establish a national DNA register, in order to conduct criminal proceedings and shed light on criminal acts, identify missing and unknown persons, corpses and body parts. The establishment of a national DNA register is also our obligation taken and predicted on the path of European integration, but it is more important that citizens of Serbia are able to manage criminal proceedings more effectively and identify persons who are missing. Introductory electronic databases of the DNA profiles, registered and unknown perpetrators of criminal acts are significantly increased and investigative procedures and lighting of criminal offences are facilitated. This law and the establishment of a national DNA register also enables the international exchange of DNA data, in order to illuminate crimes and punish perpetrators. The proposal for a law on the single number of citizens was passed in 1978. Even then, certain shortcomings were observed that occurred after the collapse of the former SFRY and the creation of new states in these areas. The problem of the emergence of double or incorrect unique birth numbers of citizens, and in particular among citizens coming from the former republics, is the result of the fact that legislation did not follow the appropriate changes in technical opportunities. The application of new provisions in this law allows for the legal continuity of the identity of a person who has already been designated as home number in the republics of the former SFRY and is prevented from having two or more JMBGs in the Republic of Serbia. This law makes it easier for our citizens to exercise their rights before the authorities and institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, Mr. Minister, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to express my exceptional satisfaction that this set of laws is today in the assembly procedure. I thank you for your professional and hard work, not only because these bill proposals are extremely well and quality prepared, but also because by adopting this set of laws, we will be a few steps closer to the more developed, legally regulated, democratic world in which human rights are best respected, but also the legal order of the country in which we live, a world in which we want to see the Republic of Serbia formally as soon as possible. Dear President and Honorable People's MPs, I urge you to support the proposed legislative solutions and to adopt together a proposed set of laws in the field of internal affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29195	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29196	We have 18 laws in the interior ministry that we are discussing during this first regular assembly session this year, which are in fact a clear indicator of active work in the normative upgrade of the broad area covered by the Ministry of Interior. The interest of all of us is to strengthen the integrity and responsibilities of the police, as well as its professionalization. These 18 laws show one teamwork, the professional work of the Ministry of Interior, the work on the ground, but also the acceptance of many criticisms and suggestions, both by independent regulatory bodies and by civil organisations dealing with this area. It is particularly important for me that these laws are also provided for by the Action Plan for the fulfillment of Chapter 24. The amendments and additions of the Police Act aim to address the shortcomings that have been seen above all on the ground, but that, in some ways, compensations, or additions to police jurisdiction, contribute to the transparency and better coordination of all services in the Ministry of the Interior. The police are a special service. Police officers do high-risk work. The numerous challenges facing members of the Ministry of the Interior and the proposal for this law, amending and supplementing the Police Act, are taken into account the quality of tasks in protecting the security of citizens and property, as well as preserving the working capacity of all members of the Ministry of the Interior. If in two words I should assess the work of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, then it is transparency and efficiency. From the point of view of the fight against corruption, a new police law has also been introduced, aimed at fighting corruption. They are viewed, above all, in strengthening the internal control sector of the MUP, which now has new, modern, instruments at its disposal that apply in its work. And certainly the integrity test and the implementation of the risk analysis of corruption, the verification of internal affairs members' assets, also raised the issue of staff at the ministry. When it comes to fighting corruption, the interior ministry's progress, besides Serbian citizens, is seen by Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany, who on a recent visit by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic particularly praised Serbia in the fight against corruption. It is not only seen by individual opposition representatives, which is also held on the result we recently had in the Belgrade elections. I also have a few questions for you, Minister Stefanovic. As for the Foreign Law, I have a dilemma that the proposed solutions make it difficult to organise short visits to hold business meetings in Serbia. I'd like you to talk me out of it with your answer. As regards the draft law on JMBG, I have a question for you - will sublaws define clear criteria under which units of local self-government are classified in registration areas? The third question, on the basis of a proposal for a law on national DNA register, due to the particular sensitivity of this substance, should be more precisely defined in my opinion which organisation unit is engaged in within the framework of the MUP, i.e. competent to monitor the implementation of this law, as precisely defined that access to data in the forensic and genetic analysis register is permitted only by authorised persons of the forensic service of the MUP. As for security in the country, a significant positive example has been made in terms of increasing the level of security, which shows that from 2011 to today, mortality has been reduced by 27% on our roads. One person who dies is a big problem for our country, I believe this law will increase road safety even more. I would especially like to commend the efforts of the MUP, especially when it comes to the prevention and education of all participants for the increased safety of children in schools. I am of my opinion, and I also welcome it, that from our earliest age in schools we must have more subjects to deal with both security and the fight against violence. It is, unfortunately, a situation where you do not have the results immediately, but in the long term, from the point of view of education, we will have 100% generations that will have greater awareness of the importance of security and the fight against violence. It's March 8th. Women in Serbia, as well as women around the world, mark this day as the beginning of a fight for their rights. It's precisely because of all the women who have suffered some form of violence that I have to say that the police have shown tremendous efforts in applying the Law to prevent violence against women and children. Since 1 June of last year, since the law was applied, police have issued 10,504 emergency measures by the end of 2017, 7,095 have been a ban on accessing victims, and 3,409 distances from the apartment. All 27 police administrations have teams fighting violence against women and children and, according to all studies, women victims of violence have the highest confidence in police. Because of what I said, I'm going to support a set of laws from the Department of the Interior in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29197	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take a moment, I hope you won't mind, to congratulate all the ladies of the holiday, and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and you from the ministry and all the citizens of Serbia. I answered on the basis of article 98. You don't have to be so nervous, I've used these five seconds to congratulate the ladies on the holiday, I apologize if that bothers you. Mr. Arsic, our group of MPs has 13 and a half minutes left, that's what you confirmed to me. In Article 98(1), it clearly states that the President of the National Assembly is giving a word to the MPs from that MP group that has a certain time, until the total time of the debate set out for the parliamentary group expires. We have three more registered speakers on the list, and it was never a problem for someone to replace the post, no matter who joined our parliamentary group. I don't know why colleagues from across the street are nervous, probably because they're going to lose elections in the Smederjev Palace, but that's not the point right now. Please explain to me whether our parliamentary group has 13 and a half minutes. If there is, why can't I, as an MP of this parliamentary group, use those 13-and-a-half minutes or I can? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29199	I'd be happy to give you an answer, colleague Milojicic. As you have also called for Article 96, the president of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group delivers a list of speakers at a certain point or debate. The list of speakers was made and in the course of the debate, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group asked for a replacement, and so that she and counterpart Aleksandra Jerkov would replace the seats. Meanwhile, it is not disputed to replace seats and other MPs, but provided they have not been read. Your name's been read. (Radoslav Milojic: May I trade? You can't. (Radoslav Milojic): But I asked you to trade with my colleague Jerkov. You can't replace yourself anymore, because you've been read. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29200	I would like to answer some of the questions raised by our colleague and which are important for the day-to-day performance and for everyday life. First of all, as far as the rights of foreigners entering the Republic of Serbia due to business meetings, this law did not change that right, so we did not use this law to touch those rights. They can do it or if they're carriers, let me say, visas for our country or if they come from the Schengen area, then they don't need that visa. So, if they have a passport or ID card for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro. Of course, we haven't prescribed any different conditions, except for those general ones, where their stay is scheduled for up to 90 days in our country, if they meet these conditions. Of course, we can work to see how we can make it easier, but we cannot go beyond the rules of origin, of course, and what is important for the security of the Republic of Serbia. As for registration areas related to unique parent numbers, we are precisely because we have not significantly changed the system that exists, we have talked about it today, and in the future we intend to work, we have left in fact, we have not deviated, we have left the current division, so that the actual registration areas are the same ones that were back many years ago. As far as this is concerned, it's very important, and perhaps the most important subject that you've talked about today is about violence against women. It's a phenomenon that, unfortunately, has long been pushed under the rug in our society. What is good is that today women have more courage to show it, society has more courage to accept that such a phenomenon exists, that we have to face it, and therefore the adoption of a new law that effectively suppresss domestic violence has begun to produce good results. But of course, when you look at something that's been covered up for years, no one wanted to get involved in something that they thought was someone else's problem, it wasn't someone else's problem, so let me get involved because someone was harassing a woman in the apartment next to, with that kind of thinking, we had a very small number, de facto large number of works, and a small number of reported works. What is happening now, thanks to the Ministry of the Interior having sought and obtained through this law the possibility of being more involved in opposing all forms of violence, and this form of violence that is particularly important to us, because we want to show that we are a country that is responsible and serious in this, we have initiated this set of measures in the law that gave special powers to the police to express emergency measures. When you look at the law from June 1st last year to March 1st this year that 18,321 emergency measures have been made, it's a number that indicates that we have a lot of work to do, not just the Ministry of the Interior. I often like to say that it's not good for the police to be the one to solve our problems, because when the police get involved, we've already come up with a serious crisis that has to be solved that way. That's why we initiated and started a project in schools. Since September 1st, more than 2,000 police officers plus retired police officers who we have included as assistant lecturers have been going to schools and students of the fourth and sixth grade, and since September this year and students of the first class have been discussing eight important topics, one of which is violence. I was impressed that these children already in the fourth and sixth grade knew all forms of violence. They know that violence isn't just physical. They know it can be done via the Internet. They know that one can be exposed to violence in various ways and that for a long and continuous period of time he suffers this kind of pressure, demeaning, and violence, and that there can also be a lot of serious consequences. It seems to me that when they realize that, of course, we also need to talk to our parents. Students are important, it's important for some of the youngest generations to realize it today. We must face violence. People need to understand that it is important to involve themselves in this process, as it is important to overcome violence against women, never to happen to any woman, and it is not to be talked about only on March 8th, we have to talk about it every day and thank you for that, because I know how dedicated you are, as someone who has been talking about it for years and who has both the courage and the strength to stand up to it, as well as a large number of women in this House. We have to continue with the education of children, because when we get these kids off the street, when we show them what can be the consequences of behavior that can be punishable by law, when we show them what alcohol abuse, drugs, problems that can occur and risks on the Internet, emergency situations in traffic. When we learn that, these children, so in 10 or 15 years, they will grow into people who will be less vulnerable to all these risks and so preventively, that's the contribution of the MUP, we are preventatively working to strengthen our community and children and parents and schools and all those who need it, but therefore we are looking for help, so we also need help in terms of wider social inclusion. It's not enough for the police to do it, nor is it possible. So, it has to be done primarily by family, parents have to do, we have to educate them, because today parents are busy, they do a lot of jobs, they have to take a look at what their kids are looking at on cell phones or on pills, especially little kids who are easy to place different kinds of messages. It is important for us to engage to encourage and strengthen victims of violence, because through these laws we wanted first and foremost to protect the victims so that we could automatically isolate them and not allow their lives to be compromised. We need very much help in this, but we are convinced and fully committed to bringing this job to an end, simply Serbia will not tolerate violence, will not tolerate violence against women and the common struggle of all of us, I am convinced that in this Parliament we have absolute support for this and ultimately thank them for helping them, for passing these laws and for doing so in a very short time. We also expect help, I am ready for all of us to join together, and I hope that Parliament can organise that too, which is education, conversations with people, stands, conversations with citizens about different municipalities and cities, that, in fact, as a society in all possible ways and every possible pressure we show that we really say – no, violence. I had the opportunity to attend an extraordinary performance performed by the students of XIV Belgrade High School, exceptional children. There's no one in the O.R. who's been cramped, hasn't been hit by their performance for ten minutes, 20 touched by the essence of what it is that a child can experience as violence in the house, in school, on the street, and what pain it carries inside him. Extraordinary performance and we offered to participate together with the people of the MUP in such a presentation to other children and schools and society and to fight it in fact. I would be proud to have the support and concrete parliament and the involvement of MPs in this and the holding of the stands. I'm willing to come and I'm all the coworkers from the Ministry to work together, because I believe that if we're committed like this, and I see that society wakes up in that sense, in a few years we'll have a lot of, much less problems in the end, I guess as a society we'll grow up and show our commitment. Thank you again for all these years of struggle and thank you for always pointing that out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29201	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29202	I thank the chairman. I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS Group on winning the local elections, but I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate my colleagues from other political options for taking part in the elections, because they have thus given citizens the opportunity to choose, and of course the citizens have again shown that they will choose and believe the SNS. One of the reasons for this is certainly the work and diligence of the people in the SNS who are in responsible places and who in certain positions are committed to doing their job. In that sense, I will talk in principle about the work of the MUP, which has worked a lot on a lot of legal solutions, on a lot of regulations, on a lot of regulations, and many of the bill's proposals are here today before us. Therefore, the overall crime rate has been reduced, the number of crimes committed is the smallest at this point in the last 25 years, and this thanks to the police's successful actions in the fight against crime and the fight against corruption. In 2016 alone, crime was reduced by about 5%, which is more than 5,000 crimes. The results are also visible in 2017. Several tons of narcotics have been seized, more drug labs have been discovered and seized, crime group leaders have been arrested, more than 90% of the extortion has been lit, the number of muggings has been significantly reduced, and the number of killings has been reduced, and severe murders remain. Special attention is paid to the MUP and the police and when the new Law on the Prevention of Family Violence is applied and we will see a large role of the police here on the one hand in professional training of employees, but on the other hand in rapid response, co-operation with other relevant institutions and supporting victims of these crimes. Also, the job of the police is to show she's equal to everyone she does. It is working to further strengthen citizens' confidence in police, which is achieved through community police activities through talks with citizens, through strengthening the security council for local self-government, through better co-ordination of police stations with their superiors, as well as with citizens. All I've stated is why we can draw the conclusion that Serbia today is a far safer country than it used to be. It is evident that the MUP is making huge efforts to ensure that Serbia has a modern and efficient police force to protect citizens' rights. That is why I would take the opportunity to invite my colleagues and colleagues to support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29203	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29204	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that working groups have worked seriously on the legal solutions offered, so that MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the voting day will vote in favour of the draft laws. I would like to draw attention to a few important moments, primarily related to the Law on Citizenship, although we have very positive solutions in legislative legislation. We are facing the fact that a significant number of people from the diaspora, primarily from the Sandza diaspora in Turkey who are interested in the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, are facing problems of inefficiency and a very long wait in resolving the requirements they have filed under the law. This should speed up or sublegal acts if we also have shortcomings, remove such problems. I consider it very important for the reason it is about people who are emigrants from these areas, and the other is about people who are interested in investing their capital in Serbia, which is clearly seen from more than 400 open factories where capital owners from Turkey are mostly or in many cases people originating in this space. Another problem for citizenship also concerns Sandzak and is the consequence of the very rigid rules of Montenegro relating to citizenship where we have several cases where people are left without citizenship because of these problems and apparently the only way is for their problems to be solved are in fact requirements waiting for the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, mostly persons who, I say, are conditioned from mixed marriages where one is from Serbia and the other from the territory of Montenegro. That's why we're interested in these people answering the question. If we have legal space, if we don't, then sublegal acts make assumptions to resolve these issues. As far as the Police Act is concerned, it is very important that the law has improved many questions and that I believe it will strengthen and improve efficiency, but I want to draw attention to certain problems, again in the Sandzak area, starting with the fact that it is extremely important that trust between the people and the police is at the highest level, in our case – that this trust is restored. I remind you of the fact that in the 1990s over 20,000 Bosniaks in the Sandzak area, especially the Cave and Bihora, have passed various police tortures, and that these memories are very fresh and that we have some insight into the relationship. In recent years, this trust has been improving, there are very good steps in that direction, but there are several incident situations that have burdened these relations. The most prominent are two cases, this is the case of Scarep, where a young man in his 22s, last year, so he was brutally killed by a police officer, just because he didn't stop his car when he was stopped. There's a police commander present. What causes indignation in Tutin and other parts of Sandzak is that for now we do not have adequate measures regarding responsibility, command and other responsibilities regarding the police station. Another case took place a few years ago, when we have a police officer, and the defendant, a certain Mavric, was sentenced to 30 years in prison, although the murder took place under very unexplained circumstances. So, for this reason, I would like to remind you that there is a need for stronger attention from the Ministry of the Tutina area, especially Sjenica, where we have a very increased relationship between corruption, so on the relation of individual police officers and local self-government. Regarding border control, I would also like to point out problems related to the border between Serbia and Montenegro that are going through quite unnaturally, where we have heavy traffic, which is contrary to what the Montenegrin authorities promised when they sought support in the referendum, which is one of the burning issues, I think Serbia can do much to resolve these issues and make it easier for border traffic to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29205	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29206	Of course it's important to trust the police, and it's important for me to have strong confidence in the police in every part of the country. We have initiated the procedure and it has been going on for several years, creating a multiethnic police force, that in every part of our country, the members of that nation participate significantly in the work of the police. Of course, there is a need to pass, and the same conditions, when the competition is called, the conditions must be the same and whatever we are trying to get members of the national minorities included in the police ranks, they must pass the conditions of the competition. So it's a general act and it can't be given up. However, it is good that we have today in the territory of Novi Pazar, there is a chief who is from the ranks of the Bosniak people, and that is good, because there is a majority living there, or people who belong to that people, and we have to build that trust together. In the case of Scarep, the executor of that part, the officer was arrested. He's been in custody for a long time, for over three months, all the mechanisms have been used, and this isn't about whether anyone wanted to, this guy wasn't killed because someone wanted to kill him or the perpetrator of a Serb who wanted to kill a Bosniak. We also had a recent situation that a criminal shot a New Market cop in the middle of a job, and I never said it was that member, this people, who was shot by a police officer, who was a member, I don't know, of a Serb people. No, the criminal shot a cop and where the police are wrong, the individual was wrong, or, of course, anyone who's wrong in a chain should answer, and I don't mind, there's no sinless and there's no cover-up of their responsibility, and the same goes for the other side. Trust must be built on both sides. You have, your contribution, I think, in that sense, it's going in the right direction, and there are those who are trying to very low demagogy disrupt some kind of hatred. There is nothing good about us being insolent, or insolent, people making noises at each other. And these officers who work in Tutina and Sjenica, Novi Pazar, just like in Belgrade, Valjevo, Sombor, Zrenjanin, Subotics, and they are people. They have their families, they come home to families, they like to come home without being shot, nobody stabbed them with a knife, no one threatened them, just like the citizens who live want them to have no problems and conflicts with the police. Of course, sometimes, and I've seen it for these four years, it's in all of Serbia, there are people who are perpetrators and when you catch them committing a crime, it's always easy to protect themselves with some shield. I'm a politician, so you arrest me. No, my friend, we're arresting you for stealing money. I'm a member of the national minority, so you arrest me and harass me. No, we're arresting you because you're a drug dealer and we don't care what your name is. It's the easiest thing for me to do in a political way, when he's a prosecutor, when he's the police, when he's the one who's guilty, when he's a suspect, and when they belong to the same people, because then we never have a problem, when a cop is the one who makes the arrest and the one they arrest is the same. There's always a problem when a cop belongs to one nation and the suspect belongs to another. It is important for us to overcome it and I hope, of course, that the police must work to gain that trust and, of course, we expect the people who live in this country to show respect for the officers who are really doing a hard job. It's important to me that people never ask the question of what this cop was called and what people belonged to and what he was called a criminal and what people he belonged to. No, whoever's a suspect, we hand him over to the court, let the court say whether he's guilty or not, and the cops have to treat the ethical codes and the law. Of course, we have also strengthened the competencies of the Department of Internal Affairs, which ultimately corresponds to the Committee of the National Assembly, and I want these people to be able to do their job and to establish, if there were any failures in the work of the police, and I'm not saying that there were no bad experiences behind us both on the one hand and on the other, but it's important that we don't go back to the past. That's why I appreciate your performance, and I think it's an invitation to work on building a better future, and you're going to have a partner in me who's going to do it. It's important for all the nations living in this country to realize that the police are working in their interest and that's how it has to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29207	Thank you. You have no right to a colleague named Zukorlic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Some other time. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29208	Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a number of draft laws in the field of internal affairs and security. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the above-mentioned draft laws. I would like to say that my colleague Vojislav Vujic spoke yesterday as authorized in front of the JS parliamentary group about all the proposals for the law in this united debate, and my presentation will be focused on the road safety legislation. Minister, in these two days, we could hear different opinions about the draft laws that are on the agenda and there are also different opinions on police work. We of JS speak the language of arguments. That's why I'm trying to say, and since the police made the best results in the last few years, I'm talking about the last 10 years. When I say that, I think the people of the MUP, and you'll agree with me, people who do extremely responsible and difficult work, have made the best results in many areas. When I say the best results in many areas, 4.1 tons of narcotics were seized during 2017, about 1,700 people who either sold or owned drugs were processed. Then, a trend was introduced to reduce the crime rate and, looking at this period, at least criminal acts of murder were committed, and about 31,000 fires were extinguished, more than 2.4 million passports, IDs, driver's licenses and traffic permits were issued. As far as the border police are concerned, about 70 million passengers have been controlled. Also, when we talk about traffic, it should be mentioned here that the reduced traffic accident rate is 17% compared to the ten-year period and when I already came to this law, let me say that this traffic safety law is a major step forward. When I say that the big step is forward, I mean as far as the safety of all traffic users is concerned. Minister, when we talk about this topic, I really think the most important thing is child safety, but you just talked about it in many segments, when I talk about child safety, I don't just mean traffic safety, but also in all the other segments. When we talk about it, I think the most important education since the earliest time, but, as you just said, not just the M.O.P., but all the parents. It takes one synergy for all of us to take a step forward. Also, these children know the dangers of narcotics, alcoholism, to be safe in traffic from other dangers, and there I must say the great praise of the MUP that recognized the importance of this topic through various projects. I'll just mention some of those projects. The first is the "school" action. It's dedicated to the children of the first grade. The second action is “the way I am”. It's meant for third grade kids. I have a third-grade kid and it seems to me to be kind of the most sensitive category. When I say the most sensitive category, that's when kids start going to school on their own, and they go from house to school and from school to house for the first time. The next project is "the basics of child safety" for students from fourth to sixth grade. When we talk about this project, I have to say that it covers the overall safety of children, not just traffic, but everyone else. It took part in a large number of police officers and a large number of lessons you've done in the previous period. Minister, I think you've taken part in some schools, too, which is commendable. Now when we talk about traffic itself, traffic injuries, I want to say that one of the leading causes among the first three in terms of mortality is this very cause, and that's in a population of five to 44 years. In the EU, more than 20,000 people lose their lives a year as far as traffic accidents are concerned, and around 130,000 people are injured. The UN's goal is that by 2020, the number of deaths will be halved from 2010, and as for 2050, there will be no fatalities at all, or they will be very minimal in the world. As for Serbia, a trend has been made in the previous period to reduce the number of car accidents. So, while a serious shift has been made forward as far as traffic accidents are concerned, security on our roads is still not what it is in the EU. In that sense, this law is very important. He's important to the security of all traffic users. I'll just mention some newspapers that pass this law. Obligations and responsibilities of the authorities and organisations responsible for the education and training of children in pre-school institutions, primary and secondary schools, i.e. specific provisions on the use of child-seats and safety planters in order to increase the safety of children as passengers in the vehicle have been specified. When it comes to motorcycle drivers, they're a very vulnerable group. Then, solving the problem of young and inexperienced drivers as one of the basic objectives of this law. Vehicle management by an alcoholic driver, which is one of the main problems in traffic safety. A reduction in the alcohol content from 0.3 to 0.2 promil, as well as the introduction of new categories – high alcoholism, has been proposed. I would no longer enter this law. In the end, I just want to say that this law is another big step forward as far as the safety of all traffic participants is concerned. The Single Serbia MP group in the voting day will support that the bill I spoke about today, as well as all other draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29209	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, I will begin by commending the Prime Minister, who is the first minister from the government and this new and former member of Parliament to answer all the time to every MP, which is commendable and allowing for one democratic dialogue. I hope you'll give me some clarifications on some of the doubts and some of the events I'm about to give you. I don't think there's a person in this meeting who won't say that, and I'm only going to talk about the Traffic Safety Act, because in a little while I can't get the broad areas that are on the agenda covered, there's no person who won't say it's good that the Traffic Safety Act is tightened in some segments in terms of criminal policy when we talk, for example, about driving under alcohol. Even if I were wondering if it was my option, I'd go for a zero tolerance for a ride, for a quick ride through the inhabited areas, and it's all fine. However, some other things in this law are not so easy to apply in my life and through the life of an ordinary man, and I am a national MP who is really trying to represent a people's opinion, I am not so drunk, and then I often fall under the influence of thinking that the ministry that you are leading with some criminal measures directly serves the Ministry of Finance, and besides, I heard just now from some colleagues from the SNS, says, it's good for budgeting. Then I'll give you a few examples where it seems to me that we had to react differently in the bill and suggest otherwise. The first thing I wanted to say to you earlier and about which I wanted to talk about this law was about driving training schools, but you gave me assurances in the answer of a colleague that no matter what, you would accept amendment solutions, because really not in any sphere, I'm a dentist and I have some continued medical education and I have my own license and I have no obligation to take seven years off from my license to check it out. This is where it was scheduled for five years. So I want to believe that our opinion has been accepted, and thank you for that, and the opinion of those 4,000 instructors who are supposed to pay 5,000 for the renewal of that license, and that amount would be 60 million I thought would charge the budget, there are no more, but we have other things that will fill the budget, and I'm going to tell you about them now. So, do you know, Mr. Minister, I'm also asking the Director of Police, because I'm going to talk to him later, when your driver's license expires? You'll say you know, and I don't. I really don't know when my driver's license expires, and in law you've provided for dragon measures for people whose driver's license expires. I'm not saying these people shouldn't be punished. Here you have added to entrepreneurs a 30-day period and this is something new that was not there, but I want to tell you that, in this case, the traffic police should have one activity that is otherwise legally and envisaged, but so little in practice is applied to say a warning – those fines from 60 to 600,000 or a case that my friend, mother of four, paid 15,000 fines, a month's driver's license and nine points because the driver's license was up for a year, and she doesn't drive a car. Simply, the husband was not there and her ability to drive a motor vehicle was not reduced. Didn't it make sense that the policeman was her, we're one amendment unfortunately, there won't be time to talk about that amendment, look at it, predict it's a warning deadline not shorter than eight, not longer than 30 days, that one administrative job of extension of the driver's license is done and we don't get into this situation. Unfortunately, we have another problem, for example, that you didn't predict. What about the lights? Why isn't the law supposed to use lights, that there isn't? I travel, drive often, go and out of the state of Serbia, and all EU countries don't use daylight. I watched on Mr. Okanovic's television, which he explained to me, it was not clear to me at the first moment, that this and the Traffic Safety Agency even gave their opinion that it was not in line with the ecology, that the work of the light alternator was raising fuel consumption, exhaust gas and that the environment was polluting. I agree that motorcyclists should be lit up, but this is how we got the situation and, of course, in reduced conditions, but in many countries of Europe, it was abolished, we didn't see it coming. I mean, and here we've been talking amendment that it should change something a little bit. One question. It's a seat. I heard a colleague earlier, of course, that children should be in their seats that will help them be safer in traffic, but imagine the situation that a parent who has two little children has two seats and is not there, and the child is sick and the neighbor has to drive a child, and I am a neighbor, I have no seats and then I am stopped by a member of the police and I am severely punished. That's what I'm telling you about life. Or I'm talking traffic safety. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that security, of course, should be the safety of the road. Four days, I'm traveling from the Kings now, four days are not open - closed quotes patched the holes on the Kragujevac-Topol road. They've been building bridges in Mladenov for seven months. Is that traffic safety? We'll punish if anyone uses a cell phone. I'm telling you as a person, I am a health care professional, unfortunately I smoke, there's a more dangerous cigarette in the car than if I talk on my cell phone. The beam can fall, and then the man jumps and the steering wheel that's in his hands and anything can happen. Have we thought about these things? Do you know, Mr. Director of Police, what they're doing in the city of the King? Do you know how to charge parking tickets? It's driving through the car and it's being taken from the car. I paid the fine. I've got a mother who broke her hip, hard to move, I've raised my car on the sidewalk, I've set all four pointers on fire, a minute, I'm saying literally and responsibly, I've been a minute to get my mother down from elevator to car, I've been photographed, I've got to pay the fine. Do you know how to charge for speeding? We're talking about this bahatim, I support it, two days ago I paid the fine, on the road where the 80 is, I was approaching 60, I was photographed at a speed of 72. Four seconds after that, I'm at 59. I have proof. Is it necessary when I see a sign that I step on the brake to get hit by a car in the back? What are we talking about? Is all this life? Is it true, Mr. Director of Police, as traffic cops say, I talk to them like people, as well as you do, says – Weso, we have to charge a certain number of fines during the day? It's a budget charge that's not good, because this people have no money, and of course against a proud driver, of course to forbid young people to drive at night, zero tolerance for alcohol. It seems to me that, because this is a new law, someone just said that, 250 members we've changed, we seem to have thought about these things a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29211	You're bringing the end of your colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29212	Here's where I'd start the next topic, but that would take a while. Thank you. Because I think the time is up. Thank you for allowing me a few seconds more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29213	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29214	You've brought me a lot of things, I hope I can answer you all. As for alcohol tolerance, I agree here as someone who rarely consumes alcohol, but also to consume and not consume completely agree that we as a society should go towards zero tolerance. So we've reduced from 0.3 to zero, or we've proposed in this law, the bill to 0.2, and I think in some literal time we need to reduce it to 0.1, and we're going slowly, because all the serious studies have shown that the driver under the fact that alcohol has a slower reaction. When you have a slower reaction, plus taking that psychic second that's not everywhere for a second, the driver of Formula 1 comes to us half a second, the average drivers come to us a second, a second point two, three, four, you in one, one and a half seconds depending on the speed you cross a certain path, and you haven't even pressed the brake yet, and when that's, of course, an alcohol added there then that time extends, hence the brake road, and the possibility that someone who's on foot should be killed, you hurt hard, etc. So, as far as alcohol is concerned, I really don't think we should be here as a society to have any tolerance and that we should go slowly to absolutely zero. I don't agree with this budget stuff, it absolutely doesn't stand. So at no point did we have motive or interest in punishing someone. After all, those people who respect the law never get punished, ever. So, if you tie your seat belt, you'll never pay the penalty for not fastening your seat belt. If you drive by the limit you will never be punished for excessive speed. If you don't drink alcohol and drive, you avoid the possibility of punishment. So punishment only goes as a measure to save lives, but literally just as a measure to save lives. I've only seen for these short four years, when short, I don't mean short in the job, but short as there have been, unfortunately, car accidents. When I look at how many there were before and every year they got lucky, but there's still a huge number, I saw people who lost their lives because of a second of thoughtlessness, because they wanted to push the slipper, because they wanted to get drunk on the raft and get in the car and drive. We've got to get our kids out of here first, get them under alcohol, get them in the car. That's what anyone wants to drink. Now you have thousands of chances of no one sitting behind the wheel and we need to be sharper in it. Belts. We had a really long discussion about it, and we wanted to be sharp because the belt really saves the lives of people who drive, and that's not about the numbers. I hope, next year, if we had zero charge of all penalties, that no one would commit any violation in Serbia, believe that no one would be happier than us. We lose, one life when lost, wastes all the money. Huge material damage, huge family losses, lost lives, people who had just begun to live, raised by their parents, looked forward to their lives, and then even sometimes they weren't guilty, but some careless, arrogant, wild, whatever driver or tired driver who just fell asleep because he didn't want to follow the rules, went from the other direction to that tape and went our life. We often talk to people, and they say, "Ministers, you're only punishing, you're filling the budget." Then when I talked to people who lost someone because they hit their child or hit them with a boastful driver, they say – Where have you been? Why didn't you stop them? Why didn't you punish them? The arches change. Then you'd wish he'd paid all the fines of this world if he hadn't hit that kid. Then we'd like to have been stopped by radar every hundred meters if he hadn't hit the kid, only if he hadn't killed him, but then it's over. They don't like traffickers doing what they do, they don't do it for pleasure, but they know what they do, how much they save lives. It's not easy for them. I've seen people work on insights, what they need to see. After all, this show here in the lobby is only part of those smashed cars and everything the firefighters see when they take them out, when they cut the car. It is not really done, believe me, there is no one in this country who is looking forward to collecting fines and it is not dramatically some big money that allows Serbia to live. Now it will be out of punishment, Serbia will live on it. He can't. He's got to live off the economy. He's got to open a factory. It has to open "Meita" in Obrenovac, it has to open "Ginsi", it has to open "Svarovski", it has to open "Johnson Elkektri", it has to open "Continental", as we did. That's how you live, that's how people make money, that's how you pay, that's how you fill the budget, that's how economies work. So, using the lights during the day, already all the statistics, that is, all the research has shown that there is greater visibility of the vehicle and by, let me say, the vehicles that come to meet us and, of course, other traffic participants. Most of the cars that are being manufactured today even automatically turn on the lights as you start the vehicle. So, because the manufacturers realized that it's one of the safety factors, like when you're doing the crash tests, you're literally not doing that to a large number of people, when you're buying a vehicle, you should always look at how your car behaves in the event of a crash, to see what kind of kinetic energy it receives, how much it can protect you, what are the results they get. One of the factors is, of course, even the color played, I didn't know it, but when I read it, even the color, let's say, that gray vehicles are the least visible because of the color of asphalt, and red and white vehicles are the most visible on the road. Well, that even plays a role in traffic security. We were rigorous, for example, for speed in a populated place, because at speed, here, the director tells me, at a speed of 60 kilometers per hour, of five pedestrians that the vehicle hits from 60 kilometers per hour, four people die, at just 60 per hour. I've had opportunities and personally to go through certain driving trainings that are more advanced than the training you have in a standard car school and it's amazing how different there is both in the carriage road and in everything that happens to the driver and the vehicle and with attention when it's just the difference between 50 and 60, and that works, nothing, seems to you - 50 per hour is the same thing as 60. So we did not limit the free, or law, speed limits near schools to 30 an hour. Thirty an hour saving lives. That's why we haven't had any dead kids in the school zone in a while. A huge number of people took part in this, from various areas and a large number of traffickers, especially when the school year begins and when drivers are still unaccustomed to new young people, and a big, big difference is just a little bit to bring down speed, there's a huge difference in saving lives. As far as the seat is concerned, I agree, you brought out one thing that's life, probably happened to each of us who has a child. No neighbor's kids, or he's supposed to take your kid, no seat, your car's not there, what now. Again, we always go back to that thinking -- and what if in those short five, six minutes, there's a car accident, a kid flies away, God forbid, it's a disability, something terrible happens to him, what do we do? That's a question I don't have an answer for, and neither do you. So, as a parent, I don't know what I'd do to myself in that case, I don't know how to handle it. Our job is, the job of all of us here is to bring a standard that protects life. We have to do this. So we can't make anyone fight anymore, we can't be worried about someone's life anymore than that person alone, but our job is to show them that it's not allowed, especially with children. That's where we have to, and for alcohol, that's how we have to do it, and parents have to understand that we don't do it to punish them, but to have their children grow up. As far as the driver's license is concerned, yes, that's what we saw, and it was pointless, I agree, was a pointless punishment from 15 to 30,000 dinars and points for the end of the driver's license, completely pointless, especially points. What does driving a car have to do with an administrative standard? The man forgot. You're right, probably, I'm not sure I know when my license expires, I can assume, but I might be wrong. So, I don't know. However, we have now set the norm to be threefold lower – ten thousand dinars, without taking points, in order to avoid the fact that they are paying right away – five thousand, not because we think people are doing it with intent, but to give them a deadline for those who would try in the interspace to seek the possibility of abuse, therefore, to commit deliberately driving an unregistered car and to do it in that luft, when you catch them, so that they can commit this car criminal act. So we insist that the vehicle be registered because of all those parameters that are important to know who is responsible for that car. As far as cell phones are concerned, I agree with cigarettes as a non-smoker. A lot of people would disagree with me. I'd quit smoking completely, but some of my colleagues in the O.R. would have noded right away, some wouldn't, that's a personal matter, a real personal freedom. As for mobile phones, it reduces the concentration of definitely mobile phones, even with handsfri devices, even with these devices it significantly reduces the driver's concentration. Sure, I know it's a daily thing, and it's gonna be hard to find someone who doesn't have at least one phone call over the road, there's a driver, I noticed it with some drivers I know, people get on the phone, and there's women more responsible than us men, they put him in a bag or they turn the phone off and they don't answer during the ride. I drive, I just, well, when I get to the destination, I'll get back to you. I'm not saying it's most of the drivers, but I noticed when I was driving and answering my phone, I realized it knocked my concentration down. So we have to work to make people realize that there's a danger in that. Once again, I will try as you do, as someone who follows life, who is interested in everyday life, not in some office, I am visiting Serbia, talking to people, talking to cops and citizens. As we have solved, Marijan Risticevic mentioned to me several times, and other colleagues, trailers, tractor trailers, tractors. We've found a way to protect these people from some kind of punishment, and not to let them endanger another driver because of completely technically wrong vehicles. We're trying to find solutions that are, as we might say, out of the box, which aren't just formal, but that security always comes first. I hope we come together here to the best solutions. Believe me, no one happier than me that we can say that this year or the next safest year in traffic in Serbia in the last 50 years, no one happier than me. So, thank you to anyone who has contributed to every idea, every amendment. It is important to me that these laws are not a dead letter on paper, but that by all of us together, I would like us all to be proud of that, in the end, all of you who participate in the adoption of this law can be proud of the contribution, that one day we say that we have led our work to make people in Serbia safer on the roads. Thank you, of course, and all the people from the traffic police who have been in the past many years and in the wind and in the snow and in the rain and day and night to help, to participate in it. There aren't enough, that's what some colleagues said today. There's not enough of them. We have launched some training processes for officers of general competence that we can, if necessary, transfer to work in the traffic police, which will certainly be significant, but we will look, of course, at both this and through the technical equipment of the police and through the more use of modern technologies we will be more efficient. Well, I hope I've answered at least part of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29215	Thank you. National MP Enis Imamovic is not here. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29216	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a set of legislative proposals we are discussing is trying to address some of the problems that citizens face daily. I believe that the proposed legal solutions are quality and necessary and we will certainly support them. I will take advantage of the opportunity to point out some specific problems, which I believe can be solved by better implementation of these and existing legal provisions. In the last 20 days alone, six citizens of Novi Pazar and one student of the International University of Novi Pazar, from Sjenica, died in several tragic accidents on state highways, and in the previous year on the roads of Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica, the figure becomes two figures. Two reasons are crucial. One is a catastrophic road infrastructure, an unrenewed highway state, intermunicipatory roads, which citizens call the pathways of death. Second, relatively small and rare presence of traffic police at key critical points. It is therefore important on all roads in the country, especially on these roads that are truly in catastrophic condition, to strengthen the constant presence of traffic police and not only during specific actions of the MUP. Also, a major problem with the city, such as Novi Pazar, which has been steadily increasing lately due to the expansion of housing units, is the capacity of the fire unit. Although the individual sacrifice of members of the fire department is commendable, objective circumstances prevent them from adequately responding to tasks and security challenges. Just a few days ago in Novi Pazar, a house burned down without the fire unit even arriving before the verse itself calmed down. There are also two reasons for this situation. The first is the employment of people who are not from this city, who are not familiar with all the streets and who are hard to break through to a settlement in crisis situations, and the second is more important is the infrastructure they have. Dear Ministers, Novi Pazar Fire Department owns a total of six fire extinguishers, and only two of which are fully equipped, the remaining four are between 30 and 40 years old. Field vehicles for forest fires are in a state of decomposition, and they do not own a truck with a fire-extinguishing platform on the soliters and multi-storys, but rather borrows a vehicle from a local electric distributor that is intended to change street lamps. Dear Minister, we have been in the local parliament for more than two years demanding that the city be involved in solving this problem. However, the ruling furniture refused, arguing that it was not their responsibility but the MUP, and this time we are asking that you properly equip the Novo Pazar Fire Department, and it is not a better situation in other fire units, specifically in Sjenica and Tutin. The third important problem I want to draw attention to is the safety of the students at school. Our schools and the student population are exposed to different security risks. A major problem with bookies and casinos that do not respect the legal framework on distance from schools has forced citizens of Novi Pazar to take action to measure and determine that 37 such facilities are closer than 200m from educational institutions. These facilities, in addition to gambling, are widely used for other types of criminal activity. I would like to point out that the police administration is doing its job in a very good way on this matter and that it is a key problem in judicial bodies that do not prosecute law enforcement. In handing over the petition, which was directed by citizens to the competent ministries and assembly committees with 10,000 signatures, they asked ministers and ministries to work much more on the number of school police officers. The Minister of Education said it depends on you, or the Ministry of Police. Dear Ministers, indeed, because of the growing presence of criminals and criminals in and around schools and schoolyards, it is necessary to find a way for every school in the country to have at least one school officer in all shifts and, of course, video surveillance related to the police administration, as you have done with several Belgrade municipalities. Also, I would like to commend the competition for members of the national minorities for accessing the Ministry of the Interior. I think it's very important and that in the middle of the Sanjay municipalities it will be an additional incentive that people slowly regain confidence that police are really important and important factors and that they restore trust in that police force. Let me just say that, when it comes to the Borders Act, it is very important that the two border crossings that existed before, the Corner of Sjenica and Gjerekari at Tutin with Montenegro, where the roads from the bridge road, today are impervious and there are people really having problems, because they are relatively related to Bihor and Pestrer and I would ask that, if it is possible for your Ministry to work on these being official border crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29217	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29218	As far as fire rescue units are concerned, it's, of course, a very important job and we're going to try to... Since firefighters have a significantly higher budget this year, our emergency sector, the largest in the last 30 years, we'll try to get a piece of the vehicle through capital projects. Of course, everything in this year will not be possible because of the length of the duration and construction, or upgrade of those vehicles. It's not just about New Market, it's about Ubb. When I saw a fire vehicle in Ub and Lykovec, it was really a museum specimen, not for praise, but for a serious and fundamental reconstruction of that sector, where people who risk their lives really work, we can say as well as cops, every day. I ask you for support, related to some of these municipalities, to work together to support municipalities with their means, somewhere where we can build video surveillance systems in schools and kindergartens. Belgrade municipalities have done so in a number of cases with their own resources. We gave up one piece of equipment and connected to police stations. I'm ready to do that in any municipality in Serbia. Our goal is to have one day a unique system in which all schools and kindergartens are, the main intersections covered by video surveillance, and thus, in fact, criminals are discouraged to go there. We've got a lot to do. There's a big job ahead of us, but I'm encouraged by good energy in most local self-government who recognize it as a job that we should do together and we need help with that. Anything we can do, I hope we do it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29219	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29220	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we from the SNS welcome a set of laws that are now on the agenda and, of course, on the day of the vote, we will vote for them. I would like to say that the paper in our legislative system is a bill aimed at uniting several formed databases containing DNA materials, samples and analysis and forming a single national DNA register that requires multiple, and the results that will be justified by the adoption of this law. Mr. Minister, for the sake of the public and my colleagues involved in this business, I need to read a comment from my colleagues from the Nish Department of Justice DNA lab. The comment is quite long and all praises have been expressed on account of this bill, but for the sake of time, I will only read part of it. Namely, colleagues involved in this work from the DNA lab of the Department of Judicial Medicine say they were familiar with the draft DNA register law, that the law was at a public debate in Nis where they asked questions, and later they made a written statement about the same with suggestions and constructive criticisms. counterparts continue to say -- the DNA register law is necessary and is of great importance to Serbia's justice system and international integration. Much is said to be commendable at the expense of this law and at the end of this message is said – the bill will enable effective co-operation between police administrations, prosecutors, courts and forensic laboratories that are of great importance in detention cases. These are colleagues from Nis who are dealing with this problem wanted to point out at this session. From the point of view of criminal and technical operations and later conduct of the criminal procedure, the DNA analysis has proved to be one of the most reliable evidence that significantly affects the reduction of the length of the criminal proceedings, thus reducing the costs of the art and the criminal procedure itself, which mainly falls under the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So far, our practice in both our country and the world has shown that DNA analysis in court procedures, wherever possible, identify in a quick and clear way the perpetrators and the most serious crimes, but at the same time rule out the possibility that, despite all the actions taken, someone innocent will be convicted. The fact is that perpetrators of criminal acts, unfortunately, are moving forward with the achievements of modern technologies, while at the same time increasingly open state borders allow for the smooth movement and execution of criminal acts on the territories of several countries and, of course, if there were no material and DNA analysis, such acts would never be illuminated and the perpetrators would never be arrested and brought to justice. Also, the rise in terrorist activity in recent years, which has been emerging in Europe, imposes an intense analysis of all DNA materials found on equipment, weapons or other props used by terrorists to help prevent their operation, preserve the lives of citizens and their property. All of this above imposes the need for more intensive police co-operation between different countries and the exchange of available data, in order to make action against perpetrators and perpetrators of criminal offences any more successful. So the creation of a single national DNA register will allow our police to exchange information with colleagues from other countries in accordance with existing European regulations and directives, which is very good and very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29221	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29222	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the most important roles of the Ministry of the Interior, as part of the state administration, is to protect basic human and minority rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but also to ensure security. Of course, it's not simple or easy work. In order for these important obligations and important tasks of the ministry to be realised, professionalism on the one hand is needed, and on the other hand, an excellent legal framework. What is absolutely certain, Mr. Minister, in the previous period is characterized by the Ministry of the Interior, is to raise the level of professionalism to the greatest extent possible, that we have succeeded in the past few years to achieve these results that most of our colleagues have presented today. Why am I talking about professionalism? Because in the previous period, I am not only talking about the Ministry of the Interior but, in general, devastated all the most important state institutions and the biggest problem was the complete absence of the city's trust in the country, because of politicisation, nepotism and corruption. Raising professionalism through status issues addressed by the 2016 Police Law, and now being upgraded by a new law, is one of the most important features of this government of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly this way of work will help restore citizens' confidence in the country. The police are one of the pillars of the state, and in this sense we must keep an eye on how we view the operation of the MUP. As far as the legal framework is concerned, we have heard a lot of criticism today, and these days, and yesterday, a lot of criticism about the agenda, but all these issues I mentioned as the most important tasks of the MUP today we have on the agenda, and issues of human rights and freedom through important laws such as the Law on Recording and Processing of Data or the Law on JMBG or the Law on Citizenship. Look at the degree we're not in, i.e. The state has not done its job in the previous period, and has now decided that many of the issues that have been left out of office. The best example is the JMBG Act. It has existed since the former SFRY, created a series of major problems, since the 2006 constitution was adopted, these issues have not been settled and harmonised. It is therefore important to mention today that this is the first government to systematically and concretely edit this issue and the solutions that it provides for removing and resolving many important issues and many of the major problems facing citizens. We have heard a lot of criticism here when it comes to the law that defines the national DNA register, that it enters into privacy, that solutions are incomplete, that solutions are bad, and exactly how this area is normised and the message sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister are that further rises and responsibilities and degrees in the fight against crime, i.e. about detecting the perpetrators of criminal acts. Who can not support one approach like this? How is it possible to accelerate the detection of perpetrators of criminal acts if we do not use the most modern methods and means? I talked about the extent to which all state authorities are and the extent to which the state is connected and perfected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the adoption of laws and sublegal acts. The example is precisely the concrete application of the State Administration Reform Strategy and the improvement of the work of the state administration through the formation of single centres, unique registers, which will allow efficient and concrete work by state authorities to reduce administration, to reduce costs. In this particular address, I would like to insist, on this, that the return of trust in the state, the professionalisation of the police, the professionalisation of the state administration, the legal framework that allows all segments to achieve human and minority rights guaranteed by the Constitution, to raise the security of citizens, which through border control, which, through other issues that are governed by this set of laws, is the most important thing. One more thing that has been addressed here, and little has been discussed today – international co-operation. The state is not isolated in a world that is connected in different ways, especially technologically. It must co-operate with other countries to raise its level of efficiency and the fight against crime and to strengthen its institutions. In that sense, Mr. Minister, in the coming period, it is necessary to work even more to restore citizens' trust in the country, that what has been destroyed for years, our institutions, our personnel, be restored in the best possible way and that the state works effectively and concretely. The proposed laws and proposed solutions under these laws restore trust in the state, and therefore the security of citizens and their rights will be protected and realised in maximum numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29223	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29224	Thank you. First, I'd like to speak to Mr. Secretary. I have one suggestion that came to the Parliament's Dveri Group from the highest peaks of the MUP, which refers to a form for recording foreigners coming to Serbia. The application is, given that we have arrived late, we cannot propose it by amendment, but I sincerely hope that you will understand how important things are doing, so you will appreciate the suggestion that the form clearly lists the section for the name, last name and half of the stranger, because so far, as it is currently regulated, it is later impossible to determine the identity. We have cases, as far as I'm concerned, that travel documents in Serbia are issued simply on the basis of their oral statements, which ultimately endangers the safety of Serbian citizens and beyond, because then we can get through terrorists and more. It's a suggestion from the top of the MUP. Why did they trust the Dveri Parliamentary Group or maybe others didn't want to pass this on, I don't know, but I am saying that I believe that the minister will be responsible for it. The second question is the license plate issue. If this is the use of official letter and official communication, why aren't the plates on Cyrillic? The second thing is, who's to blame for using Latin letters "h", "c" and so on, so now citizens have to change tables about their cost? So four and a half thousand dinars cost you now if you register a vehicle, and you have plates with, for example, the letter "c". Citizens have to handle it themselves and it really doesn't make sense. As for the other objections from our partners and co-workers from the MUP, the problem is, too, that the members of the MUP until 15 years ago retired from 45 years of age, those who have an unfettered working experience, and then, over time, the border increased to 52, and even 55 years of age. Now, under the new law, the minister himself will decide on the conditions under which they retire, which really opens up the possibility of and rematchism, and some simply non-transparent actions, and that doesn't contribute at all to the democracy that we all advocate. Since yesterday I was denied the right to replication, when the minister did not understand me well, I quoted former Secretary of State Ivanisevic, who repeatedly said that the competent ministers begged migrants to move from Belgrade to Obrenovac, and I did not propose any beatings, or any rudeness. There is also something between subjection and application, therefore, simply one professional approach, which I expect from ministers. So, I never suggested any harsh measures, nor have I anything against migrants as a person, but my duty as a MP is to point out the danger of changing the demographic image, to point out, for example, that I quote to you yesterday what Mr Orban said about Hungary, which, by the way, is also a good friend of the President of the Republic of Serbia, who told Soros that migration is a business and urged that it should not be allowed. So the only question is whether Serbia has a quota for the admission of migrants, will Serbia allow the lack of its population to fill in that way, as Angela Merkel did, as the minister also mentioned yesterday. What interests me most is whether I will finally get the text of Project MADAD 2 for 2018, which lists Serbia's commitments towards this whole relationship with migrants. The fact is that there is an increase in the number of NGOs registered in the APR, which are committed to helping migrants.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29225	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29226	The fact is that we saw in the Asylum Act that several billion dinars would also be directed to higher education, so do you have any reason to hide something, or are you going to give me that text MADAD 2? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29227	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29228	I expected you not to repeat our debate yesterday. So, you almost said everything you said yesterday, I answered it, and you're repeating today as if we hadn't even had that conversation since yesterday. I understand "prim time television", the need for promotion, and so on, and that's fine. It's a legitimate right in this country, everyone has the right to repeat as many times as they want, especially the MPs, and I'm going to answer you neatly as many times as it takes just as hard on each of these points every time. I'm a very persistent man. As far as the certificate is concerned, if it is a confirmation of the intention to seek asylum, it contains all personal data, name, last name and half, the application of a foreigner who is legally not in his gender form, because he is attached to his personal document, which contains a gender, so there is no need for us to have excessive processing of personality data. It's just that we have information that's attached to it. Top of the MUP, those people who do this job, if they're border police, they know it all because they prescribe those standards. It would be pointless for someone to speak to you who should prescribe it and who should do it, however, depends on what the top of the MUP is for. He's the head of the M.O.P. station, he can't reach a senior official, and that's fine. So, of course, those people who do this certainly wouldn't come to you because it's their job, so it would be pointless for them to criticize what they're doing and what they're supposed to do, but maybe there are those. I seriously doubt that, since I've known you people very well, I've worked with them for four years. Very professionally and well doing their job, but I know it's an opportunistic political saying absolutely agree, anyone can say. After all, the people of the MUP are completely free people and can communicate with whoever they want, but at work they have to work by law and by the rules of service. As far as migrants are concerned, it absolutely does not say that some particular number of migrants has been increasing, for years it has figured out some 3,600 that are located in our reception centers, even those people do not want to stay in the country. A total of 561 people have submitted asylum applications since 2014 and most have not waited for them to end the asylum procedure, but have left the country. So they want to live in Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, these are the countries they want to live in. They don't even want it in Italy, Greece, Bulgaria, which is around us, they don't want it. They want to go to this part of Western Europe because they think their families are there, that they'll make better incomes, that they'll have a way to live better, make some money. So that's the thing that's important, and there's no particular separation of too many. What we have are those separations that are normal and that cover the work of our services in something that involves maintenance, with, of course, huge international assistance and that should not be forgotten. We have big financial assistance that we've been getting, not too big, compared to some other countries, but big ones. I can't say, these people who helped both the European Commission and NGOs helped pay for both food and accommodation for these people. Something was done by the Republic of Serbia, some reception centres like the one in Presevo that was one of the most modern done by the European Commission, or the EU with its money and, of course, by the UN, which I can't forget, which are hugely helpful. So, the Republic of Serbia manages the migrant crisis quite successfully, a very small number of people are in our territory which we can very successfully serve and take care of their needs in the most human and decent way. Our country and our people have had experience both with refugee and through our history, at least in the last 150 years, not to say a lot before, we can say that we've had examples that we've had to go from different ways to the territory we've been living in, to move, to go into troubles and refugee and migration, and that they've been waiting for us everywhere with rocks and beatings, who knows what would happen to us. When you say - I didn't suggest violence, I didn't suggest anything like that, you suggested not to ask them, that they would be given an order. I ask you very simply what happens when you disobey that order? Which institute do you apply to get them on the bus? There is no other institute than force and you de facto, no matter what verbally you do, we understand your message very well. You're suggesting violence. You may not understand that, but when you ask someone and you ask them, when you try to make a human deal with them, and they don't come out of pride and anger into your country where they don't want to stay, the only other way you can apply it is force. We don't want to use force. We don't want to like some opposition leaders coming in front of the factories that the foreigners opened and saying let's close these factories, we don't need, we don't need foreign investors. Then we have to go to these people who work with these families today who pay into the budget from which the police are funded and tell them we don't need you anymore, close your jobs and go home. We don't want that. There's no attitude towards strangers here, any violence. We want these people to protect as much as possible, to protect the safety of Serbian citizens, which we will continue to do as professionally as possible. Indeed, when you look at, after a million and a half people who have passed through this country, there is a minimal number of incidents. Minimal, compared to all other countries in Europe, is absolutely minimal precisely due to good relations. On the other hand, you have to think about a broader picture, when we talk about the country's security, when we talk about the threat of the country by different factors, ultimately and from terrorism. They all observe how different countries treat their countrymen and members of their religious groups. Among other things, it's a criterion for deciding to attack some countries. So there's no such thing as boasting, wild, and then expecting everything to be wonderful and wonderful. For everything in your life you have to try, you have to make an effort. We made an effort. Is it the Minister's problem to ask a 10-year-old kid to get on a bus? I don't mind, I'll go beg the child. It won't be a problem at all. Is it a problem that this child is a different color and speaks a different language? I don't mind. I'm gonna go ask that kid. Because what's my alternative? Hit him with a beating? I don't have an alternative. I have an alternative or that child understands, scared, abandoned, or with parents who are also scared, or I have an alternative for that child to realize that he's better off where we're taking him or someone hitting him. We're not gonna hit him. We don't want to put dogs on them, we don't want to wrap them with barbed wire, we want to talk to those kids, the people who are here by force talk like normal human beings. With those who violate our laws, they act savagely, against the law, we take them to court. The courts will condemn them, they will go to prison and they must understand that the policy of our country, that contact with our country cannot mean disrespect for the law in our country, but also, coming to this country, I have read a lot of moving letters, e-mails that they sent when they left our country, thanking the Republic of Serbia and the members of the MUP, the police, and they said – no one has welcomed us like that, you treated us as people. I wish our countrymen were always treated like humans when we were in that situation, but it has to be earned. It's worth it now. So you don’t seem to understand that when you say, “we shouldn’t ask them, ” you actually suggest something completely different, and that’s not good. (Maria Janjušević: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29229	You have no right to a replica, colleague. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29230	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the police gentlemen are here, and we have the famous Dverlix agency, the honest, the Hilandar one, you take 5,000 euros, you swear you won't make a party, you swear on the Triad icon, you take 5,000 euros, and you start a party, and so it becomes a "holy Christmas left-handed". Ladies and gentlemen, since they are honest and honest, and we are all dishonest, including families, children, etc., since the police are here, I have to ask, Vojislav Seselj was presenting some information in an election campaign about some money embezzled to an alleged party. I asked around, I didn't want to talk about this, but I can confirm the results of Vojislav Seselj, because I was doing it on foot. In fact, the money from the election campaign unless you use it as a political party, as a list, is back in the state budget, so it's not just a damaged political party if the money is embezzled, but also the state. If this embezzlement is on fictional business, then it's about, gentlemen, police officers, money laundering, tax evasion, budget damage. So it won't be me making it up, going in a row. There's an organization in Borca. He says Branislav Simidzija – Electrical works, they certainly know it. To do so successfully, they are on their candidates, here's the list from 2016, opening up entrepreneurial stores that were only for these jobs. The money was transferred to fictitious jobs, cashed up and so washed up, probably ended up at Boška's left hand. Now we have a phenomenon, there is no bankruptcy manager, we have this common list that we can call "kradulović, rasulović, del bošić company", with so few "de LJotic companies". Željko Cvianović, Ivan Cvianović, Verica Cvianovic, all from the same address in Borca, 9,698,496,22 dinars, purpose – repair of IT computers. I don't know if Borcha has a railroad. Does he have a Borg railroad? I don't know where this composition of the computer went, but I do know that Nenad Cvianovic's brother and other son of the lady was a committee member of Dveri, the Palilu municipality. Branislav Simidzija is their neighbour, the Electrowork of MK-TEL, and they divided it into two names of the store, although it is the same shop, 5.665,000 dinars. Those of you who voted in favour of this phenomenon "stodulovic del bosic company", if you knew they could have crossed the censorship that money was used for political purposes, in a political campaign, if it hadn't embezzled it, there might have been censorship. This is how you, members, when you were giving them that money, they gave them the money that the state gave them for the campaign through corporate stores in private pockets. Let's move on. Lawyer's offices Đuric, Đuric, Đuric, Lajetic, 17. on the Dvori list, democratic, honorable, Dveri and DSS, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Bosko Obradović, 19. on the list. So total legal services 3,260,000. It's like they were defending them in The Hague. Then some companies called Jefimija, Katarina and Kostadin Mihailovic, also on the list, 3.900,000. Jelena Manic, some design again. Also on the list Dragan Manic, from Kovacica, Crepaja, 91st on the list. Kostadin Mihailovic is 139, Katarina 161. Let's move on. Nevena Tomic, Borca, also 3,400,000. All in total in entrepreneurial actions. Why entrepreneurship? Because they're not in the VAT system and the IRS rarely controls them. A total of 28,000,000 or 200 and some thousand euros. So that's the money the state singled out for a fair and fair campaign that these stone-bearers and mouse-eaters put in their pockets, founded Dverilix, and their main source is Aca Stefanovic. Mr Minister, about this police exchange of information to the international, interstate, and they allowed Montenegro to be independent, so now it's interstate co-operation, I did not allow it, to ask nicely whether it was true that their source was arrested in Montenegro a few years ago because of the economic offense. Is it true that the demand for this source of theirs was high, so it was extradited to an economic violation in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is it true that their source received two comas of some million euros in loans, but not even from DS, but from Metals Bank, while it was still not under DS control, but Anani Pavicevic? That he also won that he bought fruit in the privatisation of Smederjevska Palanca and a veterinary station in Smederjevska Palanca? Check it out. Is it true he got both these companies and sold out? Didn't he return the loan? That there was nothing from the refunded loan, that there was nothing from the Voćar, and that I didn't list that "Vocar" is somehow divided - "Vocar", and "Vojar Stefko", so "Vojar Komerc" etc. All those combinations and all those violations led them to have a credible source now, which, there, was arrested several times, but this time we need to trust them with the honorable word that it is. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, politics can't be amnesty. I've been accused these days, and I'm asking for it to be checked, for a serious crime, because my agricultural landlady dared to buy a tractor in May and to encourage it to happen in December of the month, at the alleged contest that I set up, I bought a tractor in May, but I set up the contest in December, I was so psychic and it was in the province. To check that circumstance, the team before I could achieve 65% of the incentives in the Republic, but since the tractor was purchased on loan from the Regional Agricultural Development Fund, it was my obligation to invest those 40% in the Agricultural Development Fund, which I did 29. In December, to check the circumstances of whether I had achieved this right and if I had passed the money on to the Regional Fund's loan agreement. I'm a tough criminal for you, so I, especially those from the party of the former regimes that have the habit of visiting those polling stations in Popinci, Caves, etc., will do so, and also to take over a 31,000-euro loan for me and give me 10,000 participations, and here's a tractor with all their privileges. Then, also to check, I'm accused that, like the agricultural land, my father's family, my mother died, for 60 years we've been in the same place, at the same address, we're accused of buying a tractor and we intend to rent a land, 200 acres. Now imagine the great crime – the peasant bought a tractor and he intends to plow the country. Maybe if I bought a yacht and went to Maldives, maybe you'd be a lesser criminal. Perhaps if I had bought an apartment in Vienna, as their rural agriculture secretary, who transferred money and a previous speaker to the 2008 "My Indjia" organisation. Maybe I'd be a lesser criminal if I bought a yacht...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29231	You're bringing the end of your colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29232	Thank you. ... I bought a yacht and went to Maldives and bought nine housing units including an apartment in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29233	The word has a People's MP... (Maria Janjušević: Replica. ) The word has a National MP, Marija Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29234	Thank you, Chairman. Ministers with associates, fellow MPs we have come close, in fact this is about the 17th hour of the debate during yesterday and today and this, most agreed, was one rich and really effective debate that passed in exchange for facts and arguments. There were also some of the requirements that were not justified at this time and did not prove to be requirements at which, firstly, the minister can respond as requirements that are acceptable to these draft laws. What is most important and I would like those who are following Parliament, our sitting, to be impressed, is that all 18 of the bill's proposals, as far as they are at this united point, are assessed as good bill proposals. If someone didn't think that the 1,600 amendments to these draft laws were contradictory to what I said, I would immediately tell you that these are not amendments that are fundamentally, which could essentially change these laws that can essentially affect the security and citizens, so the citizens of our Republic of Serbia, especially the security of foreigners, foreign citizens who are currently staying or passing across the territory of our country. Once again, seriously, long-prepared bill proposals, on which he worked a serious team of experts, experts with great experience in the MUP, especially in this sector for legislation and, of course, extremely respected and consulted people from the NGO sector, who have long pointed to the various problems that occurred in previous years, and we have now managed to pack this into these bill proposals. So today we from the government session, we have indicative information that about 150 amendments have been accepted by these proposed 1600s and that also does not mean that we should make major changes in these proposals. These are small adjustments, in many cases they are technical corrections, but a number of amendments are actually due to the interest and goodwill shown by the minister with associates, will enter as an integral part of these draft laws, but we will talk about all this the next days when we consider these laws in particular. It is very important to mention that some 70 MPs and opposition and positions participated in this debate in these two days. I must say that we have rarely heard MPs somewhere, because there are not many in the hall, but it is good that their comments have been heard, even though they were who they were, and I often think that I am building, not quite constructive, but they were more like someone acquiring free media space, which is their right, but they should certainly think about the consequences, because citizens are closely following this transmission and assessing the behavior and the pawning of MPs. We could often hear in the presentation of opposition MPs that there wasn't enough time. Every one has 20 minutes and then they have time as MP groups and they've all wasted three to four minutes somewhere explaining that they don't have enough time to explain in these 18 minutes, but all together with all these explanations they've all been saying 10 to 11, 12 minutes, so they haven't been able to spend that 20 either. That's how much time there really wasn't. What I said yesterday and I will repeat, these laws have all arrived during the previous year in parliament, let's say the last one arrived in mid-December 2017. That's three, almost four months ago. You couldn't possibly have read ten bill proposals for four months, no matter how large. So the only thing that doesn't stand is that the only thing that has to be devoted to time and time and energy has to do is consult people who are dealing with this problem so that you can really see that these were serious bill proposals that were just like that, ad hoc lightly worked. What is very important is that we have created this bill a serious, regulatory framework in which we have certainly shown that we have fulfilled those obligations regarding European integration and in terms of harmonisation, therefore, domestic national legislation with those binding European directives. To us in the first place, it has been heard more than once from the Minister today in the debate, in the first place was really the security of citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the security of foreigners passing through our country's territories or temporarily staying, protection of human rights, increased legal security, more transparent, clearer procedures, whether it is about foreigners or our citizens, our citizens. As I have done and today I will repeat, recently, in fact, the discussion between my colleague Janjusevic and the minister on the subject has just ended, and it is very important that we have a relationship with migrants. That's the topic we need to talk about, because obviously there are still people with us who don't understand how important it is to stay human, how important it is to show our human relationship. I know, and it shows some records that there are people who don't have the best intentions and who want to get through and who have criminal records and some history that's recorded in police files. You need to know that the largest number of people are really hard to deal with and necessarily forced to cross our country's territory, and that these people in the largest number, almost 100%, don't want to stay, and this shows numbers and statistics don't want to stay on our country's territory, they don't want our citizenship even though they're applying for asylum. Their asylum applications are just buying time so they can stay unpunished in our country's territory for some time until they find a way to go to countries like Germany, where they want to continue their lives together with families. So it's important that everything we've sent here as MPs, that it be one positive message to endure, to be people to the end, to give these people all the protection we can and what they need for that time they're spending on our country's territory. There is no fear that anyone will endanger us, that anyone will take our property, our jobs, or what is meant for the citizens of Serbia. That's two separate stories, and you don't need to abuse and manipulate those numbers. We should show that we are truly, as we have always been, welcoming in Serbia and someone who has feelings for other people's suffering, that we really show it this time and through this legal form. But the best law written on paper, when it's being implemented in practice, depends exactly on the people they're carrying out, which is why I'm sending out an appeal like this. Once again, I want to thank everyone who participated in this debate, especially colleagues who supported these draft laws in principle, and of course I expect a very serious discussion in particular. We will have a session of Defense and Home Affairs tomorrow, where we will definitely discuss amendments that can become an integral part of these draft laws. Anyway, after I've finished this address, I really want to congratulate once again on all the people who helped us win 45% in Belgrade, actually 44.99, in any case, that's 64 mandates. Thank you, Belgrade and the SNS, the people who were on our list will justify your trust. It's no small thing when they trust you to run such a great European capital, a metropolis with great investment projects in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29235	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29236	Thank you. Two remarks on the course of the debate we took part in. One that, I just want to confirm, the law has never entered this assembly in any form and that it has come out in the same form. Whether it will be 150 amendments, 170 or 90 insignificant, but it is important that the discussions lead to the hearing of the amendments, to miss out on the text and to eventually improve the text of the law. The second remark I want to share with you is my hope. It's not very strong, but I'm very persistent, and it's that all these laws that we've discussed, which are about freedom, justice, security, that without any doubt from here, we'll all bring a message that human rights and security are two sides of the same coin. It's forgotten in Europe. That was never completely clear in the U.S. This is one of the most important things we can provide for the people we work for, that their human rights and their security are two sides of the same coin, so whether it's human rights of citizens, migrants, people who cross the border into freedom of movement or people's rights as employees of the MUP, those who need to keep our data, they're all human rights that we've forgotten as if we don't need. I really hope that there is enough being said here for Serbia to be a country that, once these laws in a changed form, adopted amendments, become part of a good assessment for Chapter 24, most of them, and that we will also be the country people will say about, they talk more often about human rights than others in the region, as well as many others in the EU. (Maria Janjušević: According to the Rules of Procedure, do I have the right to something here? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-08-0.u29237	Thank you. I now conclude a common principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 1 to 18 of the agenda. This is what we'd do today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. I thank you all.
