ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-0.u41854	Dear People's MPs, honourable members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished Minister Vukosavljevic, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 17th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. I called on this special session to address the National Assembly of Njeg's Excellency, Mr Ali Abd el al Ahmed, president of the Parliament of the Arab Republic of Egypt. I am honored to welcome Mr. Ali Abd el al Ahmed's Excellency on behalf of the National Assembly and in my name. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the delegation of the representative House of the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia, who attend today's session. I now ask His Excellency, President of the Parliament of the Arab Republic of Egypt Ali Abd el al Ahmed to address us. Here you go, Excellency.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-0.u41855	Dear friend Majo Gojkovic, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, honourable guests, it is my honor to address you today on my personal behalf and on behalf of the great Egyptian nation, on behalf of our joint celebration, the 110th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Egypt and your dear country. This is a relationship that has been an example of diplomatic relations between the two friendly countries, countries that have linked historical ties and common interests for 11 decades, as well as prospects for a promising future for both peoples. Indeed, I have come today to give you warm and personal greetings, as well as the respect of President Abdul Fatah el Sissi, as well as the great Egyptian people in all its diversity and diversity. The diplomatic relations established between the Egyptian cadet and the Kingdom of Serbia in 1908, which were new at the time, testify to our will to build bridges of friendship in favour of our two peoples, on the unique scene of world history. These relationships continued to develop during the period between the two world wars. It should be noted that the Kingdom temporarily moved the government headquarters to Cairo in 1914. Since then, the headquarters has been used as an office and residence for the Serbian Embassy in Cairo. Another great example of extremely great relationships can be found in history, a strong relationship between Egypt and Yugoslavia. They were remarkable during the 1950s and 1960s, with a prominent role played by our leaders Gamal Abdel Nasser and Josip Broz Tito in the framework of the Unclassified Movement. During that period, these relations were a bodywork of the aspirations of the Third World people, and these aspirations wanted to be freed from colonialism and to resist the challenges of development based on relying on their own forces, without integration in both the eastern and western blocs. This movement has achieved extraordinary achievements that no one can ignore. It's a movement that led the peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America to freedom from the occupiers and to independence. In this distinguished parliament, at its main entrance, there is a symbol of its leading role in establishing a movement of non-classified people. It is a symbol that highlights the principles that this Movement has established, and these are the values that the world needs today more than ever before, because this movement has insisted on the independence of the people. We also do not forget the historic position of your great country during the glorious October war, when Yugoslavia was among the first countries to send armored vehicles to support the Egyptian army in its battle to free the occupied country and to restore its dignity. Egypt never forgets friends who were with it in difficult times. We thus give you our sincere greetings, our gratitude and our respect for all the people of Egypt and his leadership. Brothers and sisters, speaking of relations between Egypt and Serbia, we are not just talking about the past. These relationships are part of the past, of the present, but also of the future. Since the period since President Abdul Fatah El Sissi took power in Egypt in 2014, we have witnessed prosperous relations between the two countries, of course bearing in mind that your friendly country was among the first countries in Europe to support Egypt in its revolution in January, but also in June, in January 2011 and June 2013. For this reason, our two presidents of the state meet regularly. President Abdul Fatah El Sissi always works to hold regular meetings with his Serbian counterpart and meet at the UN General Assembly in New York in September each year. This highlights the particular importance that the two countries attach to their mutual relations in different areas, as well as the most important issues of mutual interest. Your country's attitudes to support Egypt in all its issues have had the most impact on the hearts of the Egyptians who feel respect and gratitude for the Republic of Serbia represented by its government, people and leadership because of their historical attitudes that are unforgettable. One of the most important of these views is your support that you today provide to Egypt in the fight against terrorism. Rarely Egypt leads, not only a war that defends the people of the Middle East, this war of Egypt defends not only its region and its country, but the whole world and protects the whole world from the conspiracy of these groups of people who know nothing but killing and bloodshed, as well as destroying everything that exists in the world. The mutual co-operation between our two countries is excellent and today's celebration of 110 years of our relationship, as well as the events organised in this context are evidence of exceptional relations between our two countries, relations that can be extended to include economic co-operation, trade exchange, defence industry and agriculture. We look forward to meeting again the Joint Mixed Committee of Egypt and Serbia for economic, scientific and technical co-operation, as well as the signing of the Agreement to improve trade between the two countries, to establish business councils in both countries and to reintroduce direct flights between our two capitals. These are things that will really strengthen the levels of co-operation between our two countries. In addition to all these activities dedicated to co-operation between the two countries. We are also aware that culture is the most effective way to communicate between peoples. I am therefore very pleased that this visit coincides with the month of Egyptian culture in Serbia, which includes various activities throughout July, as a way of marking the 110th anniversary of the establishment of relations between the two countries and the way of marking the national day of the Arab Republic of Egypt. During the first half of the month, activities reflected the interest of the Serbian people in modern Egyptian culture, which was presented in a week of Egyptian film in the Yugoslav Cinematheque, as well as interest in ancient Egyptian civilization, by organising a round table held at the National Museum in Belgrade, which was the first activity in the museum since its renovation, which lasted almost 15 years. Then, at the home of the National Assembly, we will jointly open an exhibition of historical documents by the two countries that have been made up over the last 110 years, as one of the peaks of these rich cultural activities. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that parliament plays a particularly important role in relations between Serbia and Egypt. Parliament opens a parallel channel of communication between representatives of the two countries, alongside the official government channels that exist, and this has just proved in practice that Serbia has been chosen to host the next Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly meeting to be held in 2019. Last week, your distinguished parliament successfully held a high-level parliamentary meeting on trade co-operation, as part of a meeting that is part of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. We hope, therefore, that in the coming period, we will be witnessing further expansion of co-operation and visitation between the two countries' parliaments, all in order to achieve the interests of our people and to improve co-operation between us. I want the Arab Republic of Egypt to live as long as the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for listening to me. I wish your people prosperity, development and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-0.u41856	I thank the President of the Parliament of the Arab Republic of Egypt, Mr Ali Abd el al Ahmed, for his address. I'm finishing 17. A special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I also invite you to attend the opening of an exhibition dedicated to 110 years of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Arab Republic of Egypt. Thank you.
