ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39615	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Dejan Radenkovic and Gordana Comic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We have reached the amendment to Article 1, which was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39616	I thank the president. On the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, with a desire to further specify the Bill's proposal, and also to point out the importance and to draw particular attention to industrialisation and industrial production. In my previous exhibitions, I have already pointed out the importance of industrial production and the creation of new values. How important it is that we have a stable and strong industrial production that we see in the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, to bring as many foreign companies into our country as possible. My Alexine, after a phenomenal rule since 2000, has lost 40 smaller or larger businesses. About three thousand workers were left on the street, with no hope, no earnings paid, no pension-inhabited insurance paid, almost without being able to survive. Today is not an ideal situation, but it's far better than it was. The company "Gramer System" employs about 1,600 workers and significantly reduces the number of unemployed, largely affecting the development of Aleksinec and a better life of citizens. The "Monicom" coolant was opened, and it is one of the most modern coolants in Serbia. A motel was renovated that was completely destroyed. All of these are good examples of co-operation between local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia, because only with good co-operation and it is possible to improve and create better conditions for citizens' lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39617	The first amendment was submitted by Jovan Palalic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39618	In previous days, many debates were discussed and discussed the situation in local self - administration and different comparisons were attempted compared to the previous period and today. I have to look at some issues concerning systemic character, given that in one period I was twice at the head of the then existing Committee on Local Self-Government and I had the opportunity to analyse the work of local self-government and I certainly could see the basic problems involved, I can say freely, creating systemic chaos in the institutional sense of local self-government. Many of my colleagues talked about the material abuses that took place in local self-government, but I just want to remind citizens and MPs to remember what local self-government looked like during that period. Many forgot that nearly one-third of the municipalities were in a permanent blockade due to a disastrous law on local self-government, which envisioned the mayor's direct choice. Permanent conflicts between the assembly and mayors, the referendum and spending on funds were marked by a period of functioning of local self-government. Then came the second strong blow, which was kept silent by the government at the time, which is the reduction of the transfer funds to local self-government, where a large part of local self-government came literally to the edge of existence, without talking about discrimination when it comes to funding local self-government, where certain local self-governments are favored, while others are literally thrown into the seal. The Law on, literally in the middle of the mandate of local self-government, which stipulates that the mandate belongs to committees and not political parties, where total chaos was created in local self-governments – abuses, borrowings, lack of investment, absence of plans and development was a feature of this period, the absence of laws governing the position of employees in local self-government, the position of employees in autonomous provinces. So, one system chaos that lasted literally almost a decade. And it was not easy after that period to establish some kind of stability, which is now being seen, in the adoption of laws that define the position of employees, in clear plans when it comes to local self-government investments, in the stability of local self-government, which are extremely important, not only for the functioning of their bodies, but for attracting investments. Those who speak of today do not compare how they exercised power during the previous period when it comes to local self - government and what a maternal relationship was to local self - administrations. Today's situation is incomparably better and, of course, it will take much more time to repair the disaster left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39619	The word has an MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39620	Thank you. I'm glad your previous colleague referred to the state of local self-government today and how it used to be. I hope Minister Ruzic will at least try to give the initiative to return at least part of the 50 billion dinar seized money to local self-government. From 2012 to today, in all local self-governments, no matter what they are called and where our country's territories are located, 50 billion dinars have been taken. This seems harmless, but it is not harmless at all, because the presidents of municipalities and mayors are forced and forced, they are bound by their hands, they have no money in their budget and then they have to go to the government of the Republic of Serbia or to one of the co-ordinators, Branko Malovic or other SNS coordinators, to ask for money for their local self-government, and if they meet their obligations well in the SNS, they will get money from the ministry, and if they do not meet, they will not. What do local self-government look like besides the SNS taking away 50 billion dinars? They appear to be so that in 2014 out of 12 pump stations none worked, a pump station, which caused floods in Smederjevska Palanka municipality. I am thanking Mr Davenport and the EU and all the people who have made an effort to recover the consequences of these catastrophic floods. But what's bad, Minister Ruzic, here I am personally calling you, because for five days now, no minister of government has found fit to visit Smederjevska Palanka, a municipality of 60,000 inhabitants, where thousands of households have been destroyed, where more than four thousand acres of arable agricultural land was destroyed, and only a month ago, before the local elections, every day we had ministers in the raids. In the morning of one minister, the afternoon of the second, in the evening of the Prime Minister. And you were coming to Smederevska Palanka at the time. I now invite you to show the difference between you and others and at least visit Smederevska Palanka and assist the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka in accordance with your competences. I know that Branko Malović, who every day possessed the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka, will not do this, that the members of the SNS from Kovin, Alibunar, Pančev who crossed the Smederjevska Palanka and along and across, so I now invite them as great patriots to come to Smederjevska Palanka and now help the citizens and Golobok and Vlaško Dol and Greece, and of course other municipalities and Požega and the town of Užica. What do the municipalities look like today? I think it is important here to introduce one new way in local self-government, one new institution, which is the SNS wallpaper institution, because all employees in all local self-governments if within a 50km Alexander Vukic comes to a city or municipality, are obliged to leave his post, as it was in Nis regarding the airport, to come and clap and applaud the president of SNS or the prime minister. So you better legitimize it and legalize it and introduce a taper function in local self-government that will applaud the SNS. What do the municipalities look like today? They seem to be, unfortunately, the citizens of the Kings, a great city, determined to beat people on the street, that their mayor as capital investment opens a traffic light, that the mayor of Novi Sad as a capital investment opens up a bicycle parking lot, and that the mayor of Leskovec, the famous "Genius", opens a tap in the cemetery and declares it a capital investment. You guys are still opening up investments already opened by the DS and the DS government, and I don't want to talk about the gentleman from the Alibunar who was in prison. He was returned from prison after two months of serving his sentence, he was returned directly to the post of head of the municipality of Alibunar. What you've introduced to local self-government is chaos. What you have introduced into local self-government is that it must contact the SNS coordinator, that the obedient receive money from the budget, that the insubordination cannot address the prime minister, ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I call on Minister Ruzic to visit Smederjevska Palanka, as it is amazing that there are probably 18, 19 ministers in the government, that no minister has found fit to come to Smederjevska Palanka, visits people who have lost everything they had both in agricultural terms and economically. I can't believe 20 ministers in the election campaign a month and a half ago were in Smederjevska Palanca headed with the prime minister, and now the prime minister is going to Topol. Eight kilometers from Topola to Smederjevska Palanka, she couldn't even stop at the Smederjevska Palanka. No matter what I'm a member of the DS and we have big differences and we'll never agree with SNS policy, I call on ministers to help the citizens of Smederevska Palanka. For this topic, there should be no political upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39621	Alexander Markovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39622	Thank you, Chairman. The most severe is Article 106, but also Article 107. Article 106 says the speaker has to stick to the agenda. He talked for six minutes. He didn't say anything about the agenda. But what is worse is also a violation of Article 107, or directly threatened is the dignity of the National Assembly, as well as of all citizens of Serbia. Why? The top hypocrite is that someone is calling on the Serbian government to help the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka, and that someone is most directly responsible for everything that is happening today in Smederjevska Palanca. This one who is most directly guilty of being robbed by the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka, because he left Smederevski Palanka without electricity and without water and with four billion dinars of loss and minus. On the other hand, it is said by a party representative who does not exist. The Democratic Party officially does not exist anymore. They didn't have a quorum sitting yesterday. Please, the Democrats without a quorum on the board couldn't choose the party's organs. At the first session of the DS main board since the new leadership was elected, Zoran Lutovac had no quorum, which is why no executive committee has been elected. And he's telling us something here today, a man who doesn't have a party, a party doesn't exist, didn't have a quorum. I think you had to keep a minimum warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39623	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39624	I have to react, since many colleagues here don't remember what local self-government looked like from 2008 to 2012. It was one disaster, one disaster. No one had the courage to react at the time when the 2009 transfer funds were reduced to local self-government. And the one who was supposed to react, who was at the head of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, who had to speak on behalf of the local self-government, who had to invite the minister every day, you know who was then president of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities? Sasa Paunovic. The word did not say, while the transfer funds were abolished, while municipalities were discriminated against when it came to the allocation of funds to municipalities, when then Minister Mladjan Dinkic only allocated funds to his municipalities, while some regions were drawn, no one knows what the role of those regions was and whether it even exists today, while borrowing local self-governments, everyone was silent. Now we want to talk about how great the weather was. There's never been a worse time when it comes to local self-government, never more in charge, never more abuse. I have a duty to say this, because I was then head of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I spoke, addressed then to Minister Markovic, the president of the Permanent Conference, the president of the current Paracino municipality. No one said anything except that they cared that they were at their posts, that they were photographed and that they were doing nothing for the citizens of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39625	Mr. Milojicic, you can only pick up the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39626	Thank you. As Serbian citizens live, it is a clear indicator, at a time when, as you say, the price of raspberries was two euros, today is the price of raspberries of 60 dinars. In our yellow days, the price of grain was 25 dinars per kilogram, today the price of grain is 13 dinars per kilogram. In the time of the yellows, i.e. gold, the subsidies for agriculture were 14,000 per hectare, now the subsidy for agriculture is 4,000 per hectare, with the price of oil being 80 dinars, now the price of oil is 160 dinars. The euro was 80, now the euro, dear friends, 118. I know why the previous speaker hurts yesterday's session of the main DS board, because DS has made a historicly important decision to enter negotiations with the entire opposition and because you know that DS is the bearer of change with the entire opposition, which will beat you in two years, both with this Dragan Gilas and with the whole DS and with all the people in the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39627	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here have been told great lies. It was said that DS paid for the wheat of 25 dinars, and that today is the price of 13 dinars. The price of wheat from VAT is about 18.5 dinars, so 50% more than the lucky pool salesman claimed, the man who drank for one evening tank, or drank more money than Sutanovac got for the tank. The price of raspberries was such that in 2011 and 2012, the raspberries tapped in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia for days, and one year the price of raspberries was so humiliating that they spread it. The price of cherry was too. The incentives they've been setting out... Radoslav Milojic: How much? Tell me the price. Here, you hear these screams. So the incentives they gave were at 136m euros. The incentives we set out for agriculture are 309m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39629	Ambassador, please, this is not in line with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39630	I'm telling you he hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39631	I know, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a completely different institute than discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39632	Madam Chairman, the elemental accidents come and go, but DS is an elemental accident that lasted 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39633	You have time for your group. You can use it if you want to discuss it by amendment. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39634	Radoslav Milojic, a folk MP, had just brought one great lie, when he said that those from the DS had become part of a comprehensive opposition. As Serbian radicals, we need to draw the public's attention that we are the opposition and that we do not think of being part of that group of pro-Western demolition exhibits, and we do not allow anyone to put us in that group in this way. We Serbian radicals are the only rights, the true opposition. We are the opposition to the power of Alexander Vukic. We want to bring that power down, but the elections and we have no idea that we are involved in what they are doing with whom Milojic is proud. Please, Mr. Milojić, take care when you talk about a comprehensive opposition, to settle down nicely. List free all those who are your opposition and pro-Western exhibits and do not mix us Serbian radicals in that bulument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39635	Mr. Milojich, what do you want? (Radoslav Milojic: I am mentioned. Well, you're mentioned because it's a replica, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39636	Just for the sake of the citizens, I'll be very brief. Of course DS does not think of ever going into coalition with those who have ruined Serbia in the 1990s, which are radicals, and with their followers, i.e. students, and that's the current SNS. Of course DS doesn't come to mind that he's ever going to the coalition with both the SRS and their descendants of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39637	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39638	Who destroyed Serbia and how best to speak the data that is irrefutable. Since 2000, chaos has occurred in the state of Serbia, in 2000, in the Dosmanian bulldozer revolution, there have been various miracles. Others are known for leaving hundreds of thousands of people out of work, for selling out the entire economy. Of course, it was a barrel of privatization, full of thieving, full of crime. Unfortunately, until today all these criminal privatisations have not been resolved, and the current authorities are obliged to do so anyway. The Democratic opposition of the then-named, which was part of the current Milojic party or backbone, was the one who destroyed Serbian banks, which brought in foreign banks here today, for which Serbian citizens and the economy are in pain of the head, they have been breaking into the institutions of the National Bank, the Court of Commerce, etc., they have destroyed the judiciary, they have formed, or elected, the National Assembly of Judges and the Presidents of the Courts. So, all the bad things that happened in the state of Serbia began just in 2000. Mr. Milojčić and all of them can turn as much attention as they want, but from that fact they can't distract. The problem is that the current government has done nothing serious to address as many problems as possible during the Dossmanian government, but this is because they are on the same pro-European path, which is actually a tragedy for the citizens of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39639	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39640	Thank you, Chairman. Replica. You see, when you need to get some concrete response to the callers, then they're gone in the O.R. So, the SNS will never make coalitions with those who are destroying the state, who have subordinated Serbia's budget to tycoons, those who can't even cross the censorship today, so they're teaming up with some tycoons from the past to re-emerge and try to cross that censorship. On the other hand, when we talk about local self-government and what was going on in Smederjevska Palanca, I would really ask Mr. Ruzic to look at the finance minister's office as it seems to devastate a local self-government, and that was a topic usually with Congress local self-government when they were guests here at the Finance Committee. They couldn't believe that it could happen in one country that local self-government made a minus four billion dinars and practically made it impossible for Serbia's budget to operate in relation to the local self-government -- Serbia's budget. So that's the picture the DS sent to its voters four years ago and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39641	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39642	Thank you very much. Here's to joining this deep professional and dedicated debate on the law on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. I see it's a complete focus on it, so let me make my humble contribution. It is completely incomprehensible why the ruling break, the ruling party, has the level of nervousness and debate over a law that is important for Serbia's functioning comes down to accounts with its political opponents. There are, of course, other places, other environments and other modes. I don't understand how one of them, in their opinion, is that we have this level of nervousness, that reaction to poorly organized fuel protests, that some journalists disappear, so they return to creating an atmosphere of fear and chaos in Serbia by the ruling party. A 100m-euro story is being discussed that some foreign embassies have given it, as if there were domestic embassies in Belgrade, of course, that they are all foreign, but I don't know what this panic is, what is so untrue about? On Friday or when it was the last session, someone who presented himself as head of the SNS parliamentary group joined these untruths, and spoke again of that suburban legend, not urban, of course, but of the suburban legend of the barrel and of the electricity bills that I allegedly said were being fired. For the last time in mankind's history, I'm going to repeat, of course, that's not true. I called for a tax not to be paid for RTS, which was then garbage, as it is today, and the tax was abolished as the first decision of the new democratic government in January 2001. There is another additional lie given by the head of the ruling majority in parliament, one of the smartest, most beautiful, most intelligent together with each other sitting there in the front row. It's that triumvirate where he and Vucica and the team make another one at SNS, that elite SNS. He said that a project called "Energy for Democracy" was abused on my part, that I urged people to throw electricity bills, and then only provided Nisa and some cities, the next day, the day after, when I became local government, part of the local government, and that it was not fair to the rest of Serbia. The lie was, first of all, that I called for the accounts to be burned, and that lie was tied up in 1996 when the protests were. The "Energy for Democracy" programme was activated in 1999, so three years later and lasted two, three years fortunately for citizens of those cities that had normal heating at the time. Therefore, I ask you to reduce that level of lie, because there is no need. If you are so successful, slowly, enjoy your success, the benefits you give to the citizens of Serbia, they will surely remember it in the right way to return, as it did in 2000. Finally, I call on the citizens of Nis to come to the City Assembly on Friday 22nd this month, because then a session will be held when local authorities will try to kidnap Nisa Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39643	MP, you have room for a press conference and come to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39644	So do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39645	I can't think of anything. Turn around...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39646	You've made an appointment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39647	Yeah, but now it's funny. I will show the citizens of Serbia what was stolen and how we managed to return what was stolen on October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39648	That makes me happy. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39649	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39650	Are you taking my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39651	I've only denied you further address, and you'll get your time. Let me just turn you off. So, press conferences and the rest of the procedure and calls for some gatherings, whatever they are, not in the context of a discussion on the bill. Do we have a deal? Do you want to continue? (Zoran Zivkovic: Later. Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward with a replica of Mr. Zivkovic's presentation. I won't insult him, it's his manners, let him do what he wants. What I want to stress is that all Serbian citizens were able to see Zoran Zivkovic as the mayor of the city of Nis as he was putting electricity bills into the barrel and calling on the citizens of Nis and all other Serbian citizens to do the same thing he did. I may be a piece of shit now, maybe I'm ugly, maybe I'm a fool, I'm like this, I'm like that, but it's just facts. As the fact that the European Union was selected in 1996, in 1997 it only helped those municipalities, i.e. those cities in Serbia, in which the coalition was defeated together. The project is "Energy for Democracy", it started in 1996, in 1997, and was continued in the winter of 2000, in 2001 to strengthen DOS authorities. Since the DOS came to power in an anti-constitutional manner in October 2000, they were liberating and unable to do anything, except to use machine guns to hack into the National Bank of Serbia, the National Assembly and the Federal Customs Administration. Well, to strengthen DOS power then they were sent a mule, fuel pumps, etc. And that was also in the winter of 2000, 2001. Otherwise, there's no reason to be nervous, no one here is nervous, and we have no reason to be scared. I don't know who's more afraid of you in Serbia. You in Serbia no longer represent almost anyone but yourself. One of your colleagues said Friday...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39653	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39654	Here, I'm done. ... that he doesn't know which group he belongs to, he doesn't even know how she found herself in parliament, and otherwise Zoran Zivkovic tells her, and he's not the boss. So we're not afraid of anyone, there's no anxiety, you're doing your job, and we're doing ours, and that's rebirth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39655	Thank you. Replica, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39656	So let me do it again. First, show those photos, footage, service records, or anyone where you can see any of my activities related to those electricity bills. Here, that was 22 years ago, nothing ever showed up, I'm asking you to do it one more time. Maybe the Russian service has either Belarusian or Abu Dhabi, your centuries-old friends, maybe they filmed it. Any photographs, any evidence of the lie you've been talking about for 32 years. To teach you, and you can Google, if you don't know another way to get information. The "Energy for Democracy" project was agreed at the time of NATO bombing in Nis at the Greek consulate that was then in Nis, on my part and on the other hand was Mr. Ambassador Vlasopoulos, the Greek ambassador, and then he asked - how can we help you after all this evil we do to you, I also said, in addition to some things, the heating mule. The project began to operate in winter 1999. The government at the time wanted to kidnap that mule, so I had to go to Presevo with the ambassadors from the EU and with the citizens of Nis to rescue those tanks, which includes data and film and photographs and security records and other serious services. So let's face it, it's not hard for you to do something like that, and everything else you're saying about lies and lies, I'm not going to get into it anymore. That's your den, that's what you do with yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39657	Thank you. Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39658	I thank the president. I just checked in with the Rules of Procedure, but now I can use my right to do it. I refer to Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. A colleague, Zivkovic, has twice misused the right to speak, first by amendment, and later on, based on the replica he received. I have to say, no anxiety, no need for SNS deputies to be nervous. SNS deputies only need to tell citizens the truth. If we're already talking about the truth and we're talking about the facts, I don't think we should let a colleague of Zivkovic here call for protests in Nis. Yes, the session will be scheduled in Nis 22, i.e. Friday. It is very ugly that the opportunity in the National Assembly is used to call for protests in Nis, and speaking of the truth and the facts, then this means that I can also talk here after hurting the Rules of Procedure about the privatisation and sale of the "Serbian-Tourist" in which Zoran Zivkovic participated when 230 people were out of work. Then that means that I can talk and that Zoran Zivkovic used his prime place when he practically made it to nothing, when 20,000 people lost their jobs, etc. In the future, please warn the speakers not to commit these injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39659	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39660	Thank you, colleague, for joining my invitation to the citizens of Nis to go out to protest 22nd in front of the City Assembly. That's one thing. It's another thing. A little more training. The tobacco industry Nis never had 20,000 employees. You've mixed up a little bit. It was the electronics industry. She practically stopped working in 1991...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39661	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39662	... Like everyone else, buddy. The amendment is very important for the development and life of local self-government because part of the income of local self-government comes also on this basis. That year, when the tobacco industry was privatised, Nis local self-government received 20m euros and a few million euros from the job, which was almost half, if not more than half of the city's Nis budget for that year. The privatisation, which is good for the local self-government of the town of Nisa, but also for the country as a whole, is successful. She gave birth to a part of the Nish citizens. The factory is today one of the five largest to fill Serbia's budget. We don't have tobacco smuggling because it's privatized and I'm proud of it. As for the Serbian-Tourist that I motivated the buyer who had bought the road and Belgrade before, and since Nislija was working in Los Angeles, to think about Serbia-Tourist and it was a good privatisation which, by the stupidity of the later authorities and the Serbian-Tourist trade union, led to Serbia's end up having to pay the owner who privatised the big money. Therefore, I am proud of all the privatisations and I bear full material, criminal or any responsibility for all the privatisations made by the end of 2003. I don't want to take any credit for that. It was my job, but like those 200 and a few thousand people who became citizens of Serbia because I gave them a signature on the solution to citizenship and on many other things, I don't have, unlike some of my predecessors and predecessors, what to be ashamed of from my past. On the contrary, 14 and a half years after leaving power, I am still a man who lives normally, who is free to walk the streets of any city in Serbia and out of Serbia, who is not afraid of anyone and nothing, who is willing to go to court to God, if there is, in court of any earthly, and there are, thank God, and ready to defend everything and proud of what I have done, and I wish that all together across the way you have at least 5% of that satisfaction and pride when you leave sometimes from power, somewhere in January next year, in relation to the pride and honor I feel for myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39663	Thank you. Let's see who's picking up after the Rules of Procedure's injury. Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39664	I thank the chairman. I called again after the Rules of Procedure's injury. I am advocating the 107th speaker at the National Assembly session to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly has been severely injured, but the dignity of all the citizens of Nis has been severely injured. Dear Chairman, I do not know if you have heard that Zivkovic has just said that he is proud of every privatisation and all the jobs he has participated in. It means he's proud of losing all jobs for all the citizens of Nis. Make sure the citizens of Nisha don't forget it. Please apply the Rules of Procedure as appropriate. 108th and 109th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39665	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is Studenka Kovacevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll go back to local self-government. Here's how she treated local self-government the yellow dosovic authority – they sold the economy, they left people out of work, but therefore they hired their party staff by local self-government and local businesses, and the number of employees who should follow the population doubled. These people are getting paid today from local budgets. These companies and that they charge 100% of their services cannot cover the salaries of excessive employees, and these are enterprises that are vital to citizens. The municipalities are now forced to grant subsidies to these companies to continue working and provide water or heating for citizens. Is that what this man is proud of? It's a shame indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39667	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39668	I don't know where the predecessor's from, but she's alive and well and welcome, and I don't know what town, but apparently she doesn't know anything about it, let's just say an example of the local government of the town of Nis. Somewhere in November 2000, after I was second elected mayor of Nis, and as a result of going to second office, I resigned to the post. At that moment in the administration of the city of Nisa there were 815 people, I repeat, 815 people, that can be checked by the minister, the people of the ministry, some of whom may remember those numbers, since they were working back then. Today in the administration of the city of Nis is doing nearly 3,000 people, which, to help you is almost four times more than it was then, and I have to tell you that the 813 were probably a little more than it should be, because at the time of the bombing we were working with half of that number, because one part of it was mobile, and the ladies, the ladies, the women who worked in the administration, and one of their relatives was mobile, I gave them the opportunity to stay home, because it was hard for them to expect them to commit themselves to work in that atmosphere and that situation, so with 400 and some people we did all the jobs of local self-government plus that part of the job that forced the war. Of course, there was no time to transplant hair from behind to the forehead, as some do badly, but there were many conditions to do that part of the job that was necessary at that time. I repeat, for this engagement of the city of Nis, at the time I was mayor of the city of Nis has received a large charter of the Yugoslav Army for a patriotic contribution to the fight against the aggression of the NATO Pact, and I personally have a small thank you from the same army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39669	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39670	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 106, Article 107, although I answered twice in a row, I didn't get the word, but my God. Here's a series of falses, starting with DIN, the Nis' tobacco industry. For the citizens to know, Zoran Zivkovic was a member of the board of directors of DIN. Afterwards, he took advantage of the JSO rebellion, became prime minister, killing the prime minister, even though JSO was having parties, and here are the photos from the rally. The tobacco industry Nis was estimated at 1,200,000, sold by two and a half times the price. The deal was made in Virginia, the commission was $12 million. Zoran Zivkovic thinks that, just to say that with my help DIN got a new line where he produced the cigarettes Fast and that's why it was growing. Here's confirmation that he had a company that was partially registered in the Virgin Islands, Vinem Ont Ventures. He'll say, of course, he didn't. There's a criminal case being conducted for the Empress firm, he'll say he didn't. Here are the tax records and the solutions that a total of 22.5 million and another 4 million, about 26.27 million were tax evasion. It's an Empress company that ran out of 138,000 bottles of wine. He'll say, because he's a penetrating cheek, not because he's not afraid of anything, but because he's not ashamed of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39671	Thank you. You know I can't interpret what's true, what isn't. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39672	Since industry, of course, is an important part of every local self-government then as part of the debate on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government to remind you of the privatisation of DIN. This privatisation was carried out by a tender procedure at a time when the head of the tender procedures at the Privatisation Agency was a man known as Sinisha Mali, former mayor of Belgrade, and now, as I recall, the finance minister, and if you have any objections to the privatisation of DIN, please, knock on the door of Mali, and ask him what he thinks about it. Of course, all the other nonsense we've heard, I'm not going to say it again, I've never said it in history, and that's my relationship to protecting the environment and this space and the entire globe of the Earth. Therefore, read a little more serious history. Lies are very bad and, I repeat, I still don't understand why someone who thinks he's successful, that he's doing good, that he's good for himself and for others, why does he have to lie? Like, take my example, I don't have to lie because I'm proud of everything that's been done and ready for any kind of check. You can check 150 times, and these before you were checked, not to talk about what I already said was buried like a dung. So, everything checked out since 1986, how much my childhood has been doing in private business, and a little later on in public business. I invite you to check everything again, you'll learn a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39673	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm pushing for everything to be checked out. So, is this a photograph of my fellow farmer from a party of a unit in the Tower called JSO, in general joy with the song "My comrades are tough guys"? Yes or no? The cameras will record it like this. It happened a few months before the prime minister was killed, and as I recall, the murder was convicted and convicted of just being a member of the JSO. That's one thing. Secondly, is this a solution and a record of the tax police for the Empress company that missing 138,000 bottles of wine, in which my colleague was a farmer? Is this solution valid or not? I, under full material and moral responsibility, claim that both solutions are valid. So, is there a tax here of twenty-seven million, until 2016 with interest, it comes out far more. Also, is this memo of the Republic Prosecutor's Office to my "Empress" question correct or not? Furthermore, is the confirmation by the Anti-Corruption Agency correct or not? So, was this company, my fellow farmer's winery, partially registered in the Virgin Islands, yes or no? Check everything, so go ahead. I'm ready to check on the police. I'm ready to go to the polygraph. I claim the data is authentic. Furthermore, as for his relationship with me and with parliament and farmers, he showed it probably because of that mule he received in 1999, he began to release gases in the Assembly. So this happened while I was talking about agriculture, the price of elevators, etc. No lies, no fraud. I don't think his mule was enough, that he needed any more donations from the vines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39675	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39676	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, if my colleague who caused this controversy for an hour had heard what I wanted to say, we might have saved time and already considered other amendments. In fact, he may not have known, he may have said this in a trendy manner, we all know that the storm hit Serbia, that on June 13th the Smederjevska Palanca, a very storm hit, that four villages were destroyed, primarily agriculture and not only in Smederjevska Palanca, the most famous village of Golobok, that is the fruity end, not only in Smederjevska Palanca, but also in the Great Plan, as you know in Petrovac at Mlavi, Arandevec and many other places. Fortunately, we have a new SNS leadership in the Smederjevska Palanca, and these guys have spent every moment in the field with people who are damaged and who have all been destroyed. Ana Brnabic has multiple daily contacts with the president of the municipality, assessment of the damages and consideration of how to help the Smederjevska Palanka municipality and remove the disasters that, I say, are really terrible in the village of Golubok. Houses look like bombs, facades completely destroyed, vineyards and orchards leveled with land, war crops do not exist. So there is no one else to help, but the government of Serbia and exactly what I want to say and what is the subject of my amendment is that it is important to co-operate between local self-government and the state administration with a special view of how this affects the budget. We just had a story here, an empty story of my colleague fighting all the time and creating conflicts with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the normal Smederjevska Palanka went into dubiosis and in debt and in the chaos that SNS is now trying to solve. And this is not the biggest accident that happened in Smederevska Palanka, we had a flood in 2009 and 2014. The Democratic Party's biggest damage to the Smederjevo Palanca was to the government of the Democratic Party with people who were their accomplices. In the time from 2008 to 2016 and in the time DOS and it must be known, and once we stop with empty stories and pulsism and here by fighting for voters' votes. You no longer have voter votes. I see there men of honor who are individuals and to them all honors, this doesn't apply to everything, but to the one who keeps giving us a lecture and telling us that he needs to get rid of something and the first person to run into the area where the city fell, that he's helping now, and that he's being expelled from that village because people know he's been devastated and he's in power, and how he's helping now when there's no mechanism at all. Another example that is absolutely related to the amendment and regarding co-operation between local authorities and state administration authorities and how this affects Serbia's budget and the city's budget is the town of Smederevo. As in the town of Smederevo, investors come to other cities for a long time, normally question, see where they could develop their business. Since 2014, the town of Smederevo has been intensively talking to investors and would not have brought any help to Alexander Vukic, I am not saying that it would have been added to him or for any other reason, but it is true. So, we always have those who are obstructing, trying to stop us, whether it's property-legal relations or something else, it's mostly important that the project doesn't work out. I was present as district chief, Prime Minister Alexander Vukic then seven, eight, perhaps ten times visited Smederevo, always helped solve all the problems with investors and now Smederjevo is a completely different city, full of domestic and foreign investors. The crown for the economic development of this city as it should, I want it to be in my Smederjevska Palanca and in other cities, is to bring investors to Smederjevska ironworks so that is all he deserves to be bowed down and told to him – thank you because it is a huge job he has done. The effects of what happened in Smeder's previous two years and these direct co-operation between the city and the government is the larger budget of the city of Smedereva by a third, meaning the larger budget and the Republic of Serbia means its stabilisation and means how careful we must be when we say every word, because after words come works and we complicate these relationships that need to be quite different to make progress. And let me just don't know if we thought of that, but let me give my congratulations to our team that cheered the whole of Serbia with a good result yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39677	Thank you, colleague Cokic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39678	I thank the chairman. The state of Serbia is developing rapidly, and infrastructure is the basis for development for the Republic of Serbia, of course, and for the development of local self-government. By investing in infrastructure projects, our country has created conditions for the arrival of a large number of investors and, of course, the creation of new jobs. Serbia has become a stable fiscally consolidated country, an economic and political leader in the region. That's the facts. As if all of these results are not enough, we are witnessing the carrying out of a bunch of false and most brutal attacks on everything that is well and successfully done in Serbia. And here in the National Assembly, of newly-roasted followers of Vuk Jeremic, who was the key actor of all the defeats that Serbia was experiencing with KIM, and also Dragan Gilas, the arrogant, arrogant and aggressive man who devastated Belgrade, personally enriching himself. And as when they were in power, they destroyed the country, and now their destructive, frustrated behaviour, because Serbian citizens are no longer worth anything, in the absence of any policy or idea, by order of their mud-finders, to degrade and degrade their country at every turn, and lately brutal attacks, attempts to spread panic through various misinformations, and all in order to start Serbia's complete destabilision on the orders of foreign mentors. Unfortunately for them, Serbia led Alexander Vukic to become a safe, strong and stable country, ready to resist all challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39679	Thank you, my fellow Prince. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39680	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members of Parliament. I'm really tired of listening to opposition individuals insult and promote themselves, because those citizens, and we don't know who they represent here, some group or party. They come in an hour or two, as we have a chance to see, as far as lunch goes, telling a song they prepared and realistically, distracting us from working. I want to go back here on the subject and make laws and additions to the law in order to create a better climate for citizens and to make it possible for citizens to live better. So I would return to the amendment that I have submitted, because after successfully implemented fiscal consolidation and rationalisation, there has been a reduction in the number of executioners in municipal administrations and that we are practically able to facilitate the functioning of local self-government, because it is clear that problems exist. Amendments and additions to the laws relate most to changes in jurisdiction, then reform of the functioning of local communities and of inter-municipal co-operation. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, which I underline the importance of co-operation of the local government of the state administration on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's economy made significant progress in 2017 to establish macroeconomic stability, then economic growth moves safely along the upward line, as well as the stability of economic parameters. Strengthening macroeconomic stability is manifested through a fiscal surplus, which was achieved for the first time in over a decade. Stabilization and inflation are at a low level, low interest rates and reduced poor credit rates. Economic growth confirms that macroeconomic stability is necessary but is not enough for strong and long-term sustainable growth of the economy. For this reason, we work hard and bring new ones and introduce changes to existing laws, and all in order to make the country's development faster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39681	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1 of the amendment, the National MP Dr. Desanka Repac. Does anyone want a word? Desanka Repac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome my colleagues from the ministry, Mr. Minister and fellow Members. The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on improving health care. Only open and affordable public administration can be good for citizens. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, through the improvement of the local self-government system through the two laws, wants to support strengthening citizens' participation in the decision-making process directly concerned. In this way the regulations will also be adopted in a procedure that recognises democracy, transparency and openness. This also enables more effective application of the rules themselves, given that citizens will know that they have contributed to the creation of these regulations, and will respect them more. The solutions that have improved the quality of life in the local community and the level of services to the citizens, I will look back at the local government of Subotica, visited by Mr. Minister, who praised our service centre. He said it was an example of an efficient administration. In Subotica, the service centre communicates in three languages and is very fast and efficient. The service centre has been running for a longer period of time, our city is the first to issue building permits, but also on their realisation. The Subotic Local Self-Government is working intensively to improve all services of approaching citizens of the city administration to update the issue of documents. A service centre that works in Subotica for a longer period of time has received recognition from the government of the Republic of Serbia and from NAED in 2017. Subotica is also in the first place because of the issue of electronic permits, and then we have mutual co-operation that started with the project to establish a single administrative place. It's about a counter on which citizens will be able to apply for all matters related to local self-government - state. Every local self-government, including Subotica, is the founder of home health. It's an institution that belongs to primary health care activity. It stems and develops from economic, political, social and cultural conditions. Primary health care is organized in health homes, institutions, private offices. The exception is the emergency teams and the Patronage teams that are also under the care of the home health care unit. Prevention and epidemiology are being conducted in public health services under the authority of the province's administration and the Republic of Serbia. Improving the environment, improving living conditions, reducing poverty, improving the standards of all citizens, we are thus improving the development of the Republic of Serbia and thus promoting health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39683	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39684	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my amendment is of agricultural nature. I think Serbia has such a agricultural policy that needs to be slightly reversed and dedicated to small agricultural land. Big, medium, but also small. Little ones don't need to be wiped, little farmers are honest and honest and will fight for bread to the end. I think we should specialize them. These days, "N1" television is running a major campaign against small farmers who are based on their production in a farm way by producing furskins. There's a big campaign going on to ban it. Those who fired 400,000 people would now like another 400 families to be left without bread. I don't understand why "N1" television, American television, is running a campaign against fur growing in Serbia when it is allowed in their country of the United States. What's good for Americans, I guess Serbs have the right to produce. A team before "N1" television to remind me, this is Melanie Trump in a fur coat. This is the ex-wife, I think it was Ivana Trump, who also loved pumpkins. This is Ivanka Trump, daughter, therefore, who also, as you can see, loves pumpkins. Now I ask "N1" television – why would fur import be allowed to Serbia and be banned from growing? I am under a lot of pressure for why the committee has decided that this meaningless ban, planned for 2019, should be abolished and allowed. They call me the fur exterminator. Now I ask, do those who demand to ban it, grow furskins, do they actually destroy furskins and that kind of animals or those who advocate that they continue to grow? I don't think I'm destroying it, because I'm saying that our farmers have jobs and bread and that these animals exist to grow. I think that's what the other side is doing, the opposite side that wants to ban it in every way. So, when they disappear, they won't be able to produce, they won't be in nature, they won't be in cultivation. This man; Miroslav Aleksic, who asked for a ban to be imposed, here he is in a furry leather jacket. This is him, a big fan of animals, who shot a wild pig whose trophy is measured by thousands of euros, so I thought it was a small buffalo. Now I ask, who is the guardian of animals, is he who kills them, and he who advocates to disappear in Serbia, or he who advocates that they exist, who doesn't kill them, but advocates that the breeding exists and that they give bread and send to our families who base that production on very small farms, and from that they educate children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39685	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go, colleague Manojlovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted to this bill an amendment relating to the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration. Here the goal was to point out the very coordination between local self-government and state administration. We've seen that since the SNS came to power, all things are being fixed, we're constantly working, and then when we see that we've made an extraordinary success, we're not satisfied. With these steps, even today this bill speaks in favour of it, which is that we are never satisfied even when we do huge things for the benefit of Serbian citizens. In 2016, we started with the Good Administration site, which is now informing Serbian citizens about the public administration reform process. The extraction of various unnecessary papers and documents shall be suspended, including copies of the birth certificate, citizenship assurances, etc. We're really building an extremely good system. Earlier, we all know, ministers were almost only present in campaigns among people. We just heard from the previous speakers that some remarks were made at the expense of the minister's work. I would just like to remind myself that not only ministers who, since coming to the SNS with coalition partners, do not guard their chairs, are almost on the ground daily, so on 14 October 2017, we had the entire government present in Kruševec, who explained her work. The prime minister then promised that the Serbian government would also be on the ground in the future and be available to local self-government representatives, as well as to investors. It is indeed a shame for those who, though doubtful, have now come out of the room to complain about the work of anyone in the current and previous government since 2012. We just had a president of the state who came to open another one in a series of factories and new jobs last week. The former government only knew to close, to destroy, to sell out, and then to boast here with some work, some income, and none of them to explain where the money went. They filled the budget, but so did that money, because it was purposelessly spent. We are not closing factories, not a single Mr. Alexander Vukic closed the factory, but he opened a huge number of factories in Serbia. The earlier government only in Kruševec, imagine, had the opportunity to offer only 12 acres to foreign investors, in small plots, half-ar and ar. Today we have about 100 acres of land in Kruševec. Here, Cromberg and Schubert have already invested one investment of 20m euros and some million euros, the plan is to have 29m total and to employ around 2,500 workers by 2020. Unemployment decreased from 25.5% to 13%. The budget of the town of Kruševec is increasing permanently year after year. I don't know where those who had just objected that something had been kidnapped by local self-government, when here, on the case of the town of Kruševec in 2013, increased by 16.8% compared to the previous year, that in 2017 even the whole fifth would be higher than in 2016, so that today in 2018 the budget would be 3.2 billion dinars. It all goes hand in hand to those who, behold, have given themselves the right to say today that they are satisfied with something, and I would just like to remind myself that Bonaparte still had a saying in his own time where he says that only a fool can allow himself to be always satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39687	Thanks, buddy. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Dragan Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39688	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which reads: "The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions." Public administration reform is one of the key reforms on the path of Serbia's European integration, and a set of laws in this area is just part of these reforms that were launched since 2013. The greatest benefit certainly comes from citizens, as the aim of the bill is to ensure a better standard of living and to create a more favourable environment for life, as is also the programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government removes the current shortcomings of the previous law and thus improves the work of local self-government and its bodies. It is important to point out that the law limits the maximum number of assistants of the president of the municipality, mayors and local council members, depending on the number of residents. So up to 15,000 municipalities can have one assistant and five council members, up to 100,000 -- three assistants and nine councillors, and with the other top five assistants and 11 councillors. The bill allows for mutual co-operation in any area that is of the citizens' interest. However, in order for citizens' interests to be achieved and protected, strong co-operation between the state administration and local self-government is necessary, and I believe that it must be explicitly highlighted already in the first member of this bill, which is precisely what I propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39689	Thanks, buddy. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39690	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, reads: "The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to health conditions." The reform of public administration and local self-government, as the lowest level of public administration, is one of the most important horizontal reform areas in each country, given that it provides a framework for implementing a single state's public policy. In the public administration reform process implemented in Serbia through the adoption of the Public Administration Reform Strategy 2014, together with the 2015-2017 Action Plan for its application, a comprehensive framework for public administration reform activities has been developed in Serbia. A significant effort has been made to create knowledge and conditions necessary for the reform process to be approached systematically and strategically, so that careful planning of the necessary personnel and a meaningful reorganisation will lead to improvements in the quality and performance of the public administration. Serbia is a country with a traditionally strong medical profession. Based on the knowledge, commitment and excellence of a number of doctors and medical staff, it has managed for years to provide a wide range of health services to the population. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says everyone has the right to protect their physical and mental health. Although not everyone is insured, about 95% of the population in Serbia is guaranteed on average, we can say that everyone in the Constitution has the right to fulfil their right to do so because in more urgent cases those who do not have a health book are also applied. However, the main issue is the uniformity of quality, speed and availability of health services, which is done by opening new clinical centres, such as one in Nis, this problem in a satisfactory manner and solving itself. Compared to European countries, Serbia is among those who spend most of their gross domestic health products. Viewed in terms of GDP, Serbia spends 3% of GDP in health care products, which is twice as much as the new members of the European Union spend on average. Taking into account other costs, material and investment, we get that the state spends 6.6% of GDP on health care, while the average of new members of the European Union is lower – 5.6%. If, in turn, we look at the overall separation of the health society, Serbia spends 10.6% of GDP, which puts it ahead of the new member states of the European Union that spend about 7% of GDP. Finally, investment in health care is necessary and inevitable if we want to maintain and improve the health system, in terms of improving health conditions, which is what this government and President Vukic are doing. However, let me just say one more thing when it comes to investments in local self-government. You know what Boris Tadic opened in the presidential campaign in Nis? He opened an entrance gate and a guard's house at the Median archaeological site. The only thing I liked was a nice iron gate he opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39691	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39692	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration allows for the full speedy modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the majority of the honourable MPs in this high House, SNS and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are conducting. The rapid economic development of local self-government also affects the development of the entire system of education and education, especially ladies and gentlemen, on the moral and patriotic qualities of personality. That the yellow media and political scum of the elite, painted in the characters of Saša Jankovic, called Sala prangi, Zoran Zivkovic, called the farmer in the attempt, Slobodan Georgieva, called Slobo blabber, Janko Veseninović, called Janko Stanok Kraljica, Dragan Djilas, called Điki Mafia and Vuk Jeremic, called Vuk descendant, Balša Bozinović, called Gobrada pirate from Maldiva, had moral and patriotic feelings, would not have been complicits of huge lies orchestrated by the aim of destabilising the Republic of Serbia and the role of the President of the Republic and that the fuel in Serbia was the most expensive of the region and that a block of roads was therefore carried out, which is a non-ortic lie, because in 26 countries of Europe, the fuel was more expensive, that the water itself of Belgrade was perfectly clean, because it was made by the localstreststststrestststststst, because of the Greekst, the localstststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststst.stststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststs Furthermore, they suspected the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS and the state of Serbia of causing unrest in the north of KiM, which is notorous untrue. All these lies aim together with certain centres outside our country to destabilise and weaken the role of the president of the Republic of Serbia, especially before talks in Brussels. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is very important for the moral, or patriotic education of our students and future politicians so as not to result in such abominations in the numbered characters at the expense of our country's reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39693	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Alexandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39694	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this law concerning the efficiency of local self-government. In order for a local self-government to be effective, it is necessary to meet more conditions, and one of those that is certainly the most important is the one who heads the local self-government. It is also very important that the relationship between different levels of government or between local and republican levels and if local self-government is located in the province, that the relationship between local self-government and regional authorities is very good. This example of efficiency, i.e. The ineffectiveness of local self-government can be carried out on the basis of the local self-government I come from, and now it's a city and once a municipality of Kickinda. In the former SFRY, Kikinda was the fifth average gross income per capita, although it is surrounded by a fertile country in Kikinda, there were then large industries such as "Toza Markovic", a crep factory such as "Kiko", today's Banini, such as "Prima", such as "Methaneol", such as many other factories where the majority of the population of Kikinda worked. What had not destroyed the years of war and sanctions, destroyed the robbery privatisations in Kikinda, so all the major industries almost stopped producing and many, many workers were out of work, literally on the street. In 2013, the Council adopted The SNS stands at the head of the municipality of Kickind, and it has not been five years since then, but we can say that much has been done to make local self-government effective, i.e. to lay some groundwork for it to be even better in kickinda tomorrow than it is now. One industrial zone is finished and filled with investors. We're opening another industrial zone. A few years later, Kikinda regained its status as a city, several years ago. What we are particularly proud of is the pilot project of public administration reform in Kikinda, i.e. already in 2014, five public enterprises are merged into one, which is the basis that last year we were able to raise a loan to build a water factory and solve a major problem of drinking water shortages in Kikinda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39695	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic, after the amendment. Here you go, colleague Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39696	Thank you, Vice President. Dear People's MPs, I can say that this amendment is quite inspired, that it goes from one larger whole to one through reference or interconnection, there are some things that are very important when the nature of the law and the nature of the achievement at all is observed. Here we have the same clear intentions, the fulfillment of some strategic documents, goals. So, all in all, one amendment that I would gladly vote for if there were at least two or three people from the ruling majority who would vote for that same amendment. The most commendable thing I can say. Also, I completely understand some other things, I'm fully aware of them. So if I were to get 49% of the vote, I'd boast the same thing. It's totally human. I totally understand that. Also, there are results, it's not controversial, pal, I never said you didn't have results unlike some others, on the contrary. You have achievements and flaws in your work. It is also quite true that it is not forbidden to submit amendments that you do not think you are voting for. According to the Rules of Procedure, it's totally fine, it's not forbidden. Above all, I understand the frustration that exists when the debate on amendments turns into something that it shouldn't be and that this is the way that is now invented, that this kind of debate doesn't happen. It's all very logical to me, but I still wonder, since we have a lot of citizens who would like to have things clarified in detail, whether this is how we do it in the National Assembly. Is that what we're doing? Where we arrived as the National Assembly by having first one extremism, which I'm also going to say a little bit more about, on the agenda, where you also had some things that were not appropriate and meaningful at all, even though they weren't prohibited by the Rules of Procedure. It is not forbidden for every MP to submit 50 draft laws every time and to talk about them in the day to determine the agenda, and now that these laws also do not make any special sense and cannot fit into the lawmaking process, it does not matter. It's the same completely one thing that's not banned and that's devoid of every sense and it's equally difficult to listen to the bill's proposals every time, I guess when you're in the majority that has to provide quorum, in so much more frustrating. And when you're in opposition, you don't have to listen to it, you can get out. So these are practices that really aren't good. We have said that we will not participate in a parliamentary group of free MPs, because we do not think that it is something that will advance the work of the National Assembly and that at least every time in the time that we have to call for one, how can I say the establishment of a healthier atmosphere in parliament in which the opposition would give up senseless proposals of the law, because they can be either pointless or when they refuse most of them, there is little chance that they will accept them after seven days, that they will discuss what is really a subject, and we would have a lot of things to discuss about the laws in particular, especially when we have ministers who have time here and could give a lot of good answers, or maybe if they do not have good answers, that's not good. Then let's think about whether the minister is good. I understand that the same extremism in the Assembly is one very bad thing and that extremism should not be given, as I would say on the significance, but I do not believe that this is the best way to fight extremism in the Assembly, against the tabulation of the Assembly and all things that are not good, for a serious legislative authority leading Serbia to the EU. Deep down, that's not good stuff. So I think it would be really best if we finally got to the new Rules of Procedure and we had a college where we could finally agree not to adopt any senseless or draft laws that could not pass, which are not in line with what our strategic goals are as states, and also that we have two days to discuss in particulars, which will not be, as I say, in all words, and at least on laws. It is also fine to have sessions of the Assembly to discuss in the freest way topics of desire. And that's just fine. Once again, I want you to discuss it successfully for the rest of the day. Our parliamentary group will not participate in the debate, which we are deeply sorry for.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39697	Thank you, colleague Stevanović, with the invitation to participate in the debate, of course. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39698	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I submitted this amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which amends Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, which refers to the right of citizens to manage public affairs from direct, common and general interest in local populations, directly and through free-elected representatives. My amendment reads: “Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government adds a new position 2 which reads: "The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to improving the functioning of the judiciary." “ The objective of the amendment is to define the coordination of local self - administration and state administration, among other things, to improve the functioning of the judiciary. This is an opportunity to remind me that the former regime, or Democratic Party, which was then in power, carried out a reform of the judiciary, etc. judicial reform 2009, 2010 and 2011. The reform, at least so declared, needed to consistently regulate the rule of law and independence of the judiciary, through a consistent division of power into three branches - legislative, executive and judicial power. In several provisions, the constitution predicted that judicial authority is independent of the other two branches of government. The objectives of the reform were judicial independence, a new network of courts, a reduction of the costs of the judiciary and a change of procedural laws in order to be effective. The independence of the judiciary was to be achieved as well as guaranteed by the Constitution through the independence of the judicial authority, the continuity of the judicial function and the protection of the position of the holder of judicial functions. None of this has been consistently implemented. We know how the general re-election and the choice of judges were carried out, which was completely contrary to the Constitution and the principle of continuity of the judge's office. The executive power, contrary to the opinion of the professional public and without the participation of the judiciary, has reached a decision on the general re-election and election of judges by the first term of the High Council of Justice, which was not elected by the judiciary but by the Assembly. It is common knowledge that all this has ended and how much damage the Republic of Serbia and citizens have suffered from this. It took and it would take years to correct everything that was then ruined. The Serbian Progressive Party also noted in the 2012 pre-election campaign the need to continue reforming the judiciary and correcting the mistakes made and would never allow such a thing to happen again, as Serbian citizens recognized and trusted it in the elections, and this party is now doing so in action. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government significantly improves the work of local self-government, thus ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia in all segments of government, and this will certainly affect the functioning of the judiciary. In the voting day, I will support the amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government, as well as the proposals of all other laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39699	Thanks, buddy. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39700	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as I point out to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and this time I want to point out, but also to point out a meeting of the representatives of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government with the IMF mission chief on the results of the public administration reform, with a special emphasis on the reform of the wage system. The mission's professional support is of great importance for continuing to reform the wage system, and most of all concerns identifying the financial effects of the changes that reform brings. The reform contributes to better governance in finance and a higher degree of transparency, as well as greater motivation of employees, and finally better quality of services provided by the state administration. The wage reform concerns 470,000 employees. Many legislative and sub-legislative acts have been adopted in the previous period, setting out the legal frameworks and giving guidance for further steps in the reform. What follows now are negotiations with trade unions on the determination of public service coefficients. Otherwise, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the IMF representatives an increase in public sector wages ranging from 8% to 10%. An increase of 10% would have teachers and teachers in secondary education, police and doctors, and other public sector employees would have an 8% increase. And this is, of course, the result of the government's responsible policy and budget surplus of 6.5 billion dinars in the first quarter of 2018 alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39701	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39702	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, I come from the town of Sapca, and precisely because of the citizens of Sapac and Serbian citizens, I want to say that the municipalities today, i.e. the town of Sabac and the municipality managed by someone who, after 18 years, still thinks they can sell the fog and who knows which way to deceive their citizens. On May 30th, we had a sad meeting of the opposition in Sapac, which was, of course, organized by Mayor Zelenovic at the City Hall, at the expense of the city's budget. At this sad gathering where both Jeremic and Dusan Petrovic and Djilas were at, the new DS president took with him and the boy from the Lutovac deck, who was doing nothing, just sitting there and watching what his comrades were doing. Dusan Petrovic was there at the door, so that someone wouldn't run away from that rally because they didn't even know what they were supposed to do at the rally. That's why they looked more like a memorial, because, simply, the ideas they place don't believe anymore either. The call they sent to the Council of Europe for a special mission that would determine the state of democracy in Serbia will be supported by me, but only on condition that this commission first comes to Sabac, Paracin, Chatin, and that it determines what the presidents of the municipalities calling on the Council of Europe to do. Perhaps the mayor of the town of Sapca will answer them how and why he steals from citizens and not steals it for little, but steals large, from the 2015 budget five million euros, no less. Maybe the mayor will answer how he buys votes in Capco. In the 2016 elections, they bought votes, and again not for a bit, but for a large one. The price was between five and 11 thousand dinars per family, depending on the size of the family. Perhaps the mayor will explain to the Council of Europe that he is lying to his citizens, and that does not lie to them for a little while, but lies to them very much. Among other things, in the 2016 planned budget, it provided information that it will invest in the investments of incredible 2,754,000, of which the construction of a heat on biomass of 500,000 dinars, the construction of an international port of 300,000 dinars, the Centre for Fruits of 500,000 dinars, the underground and underground garage of 200,000 dinars, etc. They haven't fulfilled any of these promises. The people of Zapca know that, but let them know Serbia's citizens and let them answer that commission as long as they think they're lying not only to the citizens of Sapca, but to all Serbia. Does anyone really think that people coming from the EU, or from the Council of Europe, if they come at all, have the power to help them try to stay in power another day? They can no longer help them buy a councilman present in the town of Šapac. When it comes to the Sabac, it is also very important that we adopt, in which we limit the mayor to the number of assistants. Believe it or not, the number of assistants is 29. Twenty-nine assistants the mayor of Zapca has on this day, and this law provides for five. Believe it or not, Mayor Zelenovic doesn't do anything until Don "10%" tells him, and it wouldn't have been a big problem if he had stayed on that nickname when they moved from that 10% to 20%, and in the recent past some privatisations were 100%, then there was a crash of DS and no glue can stick to what fell apart. All attempts to build power in Serbia do not make it an impossible mission, but at this point it seems like an attempt to hold this next session of ours on Mars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39703	Thank you, colleague Birmancevic. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go, Dr. Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39704	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to the first member of this law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that by adding Article 2 or Article 2 in this article, we would further define the coordination of state administration and local self-government. I am proud to come from Racine County from the town of Kruševec, which is indeed an example of good practice and co-operation with the competent ministry which today represents this law. On this occasion, I would like to boast and feel free to say that since 2012, the town of Kruševac has indeed been on one upward path and that we have prevented the collapse that has unfortunately hit not only the town of Kruševac but also the whole of Serbia. By 2012, there was a yellow company in my city. This yellow company that devastated all of Serbia and today some who are not ashamed to talk about how they ruled until 2012, and some have come here and used only the right to take advantage of their time and they are gone, because so few of the votes they have received from citizens and are actually fighting for them, they come here for a few minutes to tell what they have, to challenge a bunch of replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure and disappear. Now, they will disappear in the next election and from Serbia's political scene and will not go into the past, go to the dump where they deserve it. What I can add is that in Kruševec factories are being opened and that recently, with the presence of the President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, we have opened the factory "Kromberg" and "Shubert" which will employ 2,000 workers, now employs about 600. It is 600 new families that have lost their jobs precisely because of the poor privatisations of those who have devastated Serbia. Of course, it will employ 1,900 more families and citizens are satisfied and shows from the election that the SNS has no alternative and therefore SNS support in the Rasin County is over 65%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39705	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39706	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, through my amendments, advocate that every law must contain elements that lead to Serbia's development. What is particularly important for the local self-government in Bor is the extremely high level of co-operation that we have built with the state authorities. That's how we solve problems together in our midst. One of the problems that has plagued us is the lack of room in kindergartens. In order to fully meet the needs of the youngsters, we need to build a new kindergarten, but as we need more significant funding, we plan to design the first project and apply to certain funds. However, in order to at least partially reduce the waiting list and increase the capacity of kindergartens, we have launched a project in collaboration with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government that will adapt several municipal sites. We're gonna do a kindergarten for a hundred and twenty kids, and by doing that, we're gonna cut the waiting list by a third. The project is worth 18 million, 50% of which were allocated by the Bor municipality for the purpose, and 50% were approved by the ministry's funds. The project will be completed by the end of this year. The municipality also invests funds in population policy, which in the light of single support for the first child 25 thousand, for the second 40, for the third and fourth children 70,000 dinars. After that, unemployment is paid for a year’s pay. And there's an extra-body fertilization of 250,000 dinars, two attempts for one pair. What I believe was the most rewarding parents of the founders in Bor are free textbooks for students from first to fourth grade, as well as free packages for all students champions. Not even youth organizations have been neglected. A building owned by the municipality has been adapted and is formed the Youth House, which now uses over 20 youth associations within the Youth Office. And we cared about the oldest. We built the Old People's House and leased it to a private entrepreneur, whose activity is on the territory of eastern Serbia. So we have all the features of the city, which we will officially become after this debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39707	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Branko Popovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39708	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, by supplementing this article with the position I have proposed, is further defined by the bill in terms of affirmation of the overall development of our country, and in particular the development of regional medical centres. The Serbian government's policy looks at the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments, bringing the most favourable conditions for state development. Investment in the Uzica health center, which includes three general hospitals and 10 health homes, is an indication that the state and local self-government seek equal availability of quality health care throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Over 500 million dinars have been invested in this facility for the past few years, thus raising the level of health care for more than 300,000 citizens of the Zlatibor district. The reconstruction and adaptation of the largest number of services in all homes of health has been performed. It's been purchased near 40 Sanitary Field Vehicles. New computer equipment is installed in every organisational unit. A few days ago, a hundredth of a row of cardio-surgery was performed at the General Hospital of Užica, in the Department of Cardio-surgery, which opened in 2014. There will be a minimum of four operations a week and five more doctors and 10 nurses will be received, and funds for the most modern equipment have been provided. The work of the Cardio-Surgery Department is in full capacity, it is important not only for the citizens of the Zlatibor district, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those who wait longer for this kind of operation. In this way, waiting lists will be significantly reduced in the future. These facts are evidence of the strategic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which realises projects of vital importance for the development of our country. Only new infrastructure investments will create better preconditions for continuing the reforms launched, which aim to increase citizens' living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39709	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Arsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of the session, of today's session, of my colleagues from the former regime, I could hear the most unspeakable lies that could be settled in that when it comes to fighting for power, the former regime felt that it could be the greatest and untruthful and unspeakable. From these discussions, I have in fact concluded only one thing, that until now in one part of my work I was wrong, which is that by increasing the entrusted revenues in 2011, they wanted to reroute more funds to local self-government to prepare local self-government for the republican and local elections held in 2012. That's what I was convinced of. Now that they're acting like this, with one tip of insolence, I can see I was wrong. They increased trusted revenues to local self-government in order to steal and steal even more. Watch out where they cut off, from funds that pay out pensions and pay off health insurance, so that the presidents of DS-led municipalities can steal more. The fact that I'm absolutely right is only one fact, that although these transfers are transferable, these transferable committed revenues are reduced by local self-government, how is it that the current presidents of municipalities and cities have better results in their work? How is it that with the same or less money you can have three or four times better results at work? You know, when someone here says that while his party was in power, that the euro was 80, and we all know that it got to 120, when someone says that the fuel was 80, and we all know that in 2012, it was as much as it was now, when someone says that it was paid for the agriculture of 14,000 dinars, and that the total mass was 188m euros, that today was 320, then it's obvious that the gentlemen of the former rajma think that in love and war everything is allowed, that and in politics you can tell lies as much as you want to come to power, and when you come to power, you lie even more to be able to steal. Now, that's the kind of power you have waiting for if the DS wins the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39711	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Dragan Veljkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39712	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the European Charter of Local Self-Government defines local self-government as a set of local institutions that have the right, but also the ability and obligation to enable citizens of a particular local community to manage, directly or through their representatives, relatively independently, certain public affairs at their own risk and in their own interest. The role of local self-government is also a direct recognition of the most important problems in the local environment and their efficient and cheap resolution through the process of defining local interests and local development strategies. The Constitution guaranteeing the right to local self-government is granted by citizens, both by direct and direct management of public affairs of direct and common interest to the local population. The increased participation of citizens in local self-government leads to greater equality of citizens, gives greater legitimacy to local government decisions and affects the creation of an active civil society. In all democratic political systems, one of the most important issues is the quality of the central and local government's relations. The main problem that can be seen in the relations of the state administration and local self-government is the problem of insufficient and inadequate coordination of different levels of government, resulting in serious obstacles to better functioning of local self-government. Therefore, by establishing a partnership relationship, coordination and co-operation between the state and local authorities, conditions are created for a more efficient, better quality provision of services to citizens by local self-government, as well as raising the level of responsibility, transparency and efficiency of the work of local self-government, which is the essence of my proposed amendment, with special reference to the rights of displaced persons. The partner relationship between the state and local self-government also exists in the area of realising the rights of displaced persons as one of the most endangered social groups whose problems are manifested in almost all areas of life. In this context, I point out that the state at the central level, and especially through the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, is permanently creating conditions for the quality and safe lives of displaced persons, for which it has allocated more than 250m euros in previous periods for housing care, health care, education and social giving. But I also point out that local self-government units are an important support and active participant in the process of exercising the rights of displaced persons. In addition to co-ordination and co-operation with state authorities, more than 137 of the city's, which adopted local action plans to improve the situation of displaced persons and to get the financial support of the Commission for the implementation of the activities of the envisaged targets, the plans identified, which they successfully implemented in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39713	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go, Dr. Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39714	Thank you. I have submitted amendment 1 to Article 1 of this Law, which adds Article 2 which reads - the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. The fact is that without good and efficient local self-government, there is no successful democratic society. Its service to the local population is particularly important. The essence of the existence of local self-government is to address the existential needs of citizens. Local self-government should offer quality services to raise the quality of life, i.e. to meet the numerous daily needs of citizens living in the territory of a local self-government unit through appropriate services. Local self-government is working intensively with citizens, and this requires constant development of personnel, improvement of knowledge and competence of public officials. So, good and bad practices can be found everywhere, but I must point out that our citizens have had a lot of bad practices that took place over the years. During its term of office, the previous government has centralised public authorities by controlling a single party's complete system, and we have also had the removal of competence for local authorities and the creation of new system management structures, i.e. increasing the capacity of state administration authorities, the establishment of directors, public agencies, public enterprises and others. All of this resulted in a decline in local self-government and a significant reduction in capacity in local authorities. Of course, citizens were very unhappy with the quality of life in the municipalities they live in, they did not have enough information about the work of their local self-government, little was done in the development of local entrepreneurship, and the biggest problem they faced was unemployment. The direct participation of citizens through decision-making and control of the work of local authorities during the previous government was very low. The government of the Republic of Serbia is working hard to develop adequate legal frameworks that create assumptions and preconditions for development and progress. The president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, as opposed to the previous government, know perfectly what reliability, credibility and trust mean. That is why a constant development of transparency is needed in relation to citizens and local self-government. Local self-government and local public officials should be open to information needs of citizens, businesses, civil society organisations, stakeholders and others. This means that they should be well informed about decision-making, generally but also about procedures and conditions for providing specific services. It is precisely what I have said in advance, among other things, that is further defined and concrete in the amendments and amendments to the law, and there are also changes that will require future citizens to be consulted on the creation of the budget of local self-government in the area of investment. Over the past two years, I can freely say, significant visible steps have been taken in the area of state administration and local self-government. They wouldn't be possible without the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration. The law expresses the intention and will of the Serbian government to carry out, among other things, professionalisation, rationalisation, modernisation and towards the creation of a modern administration in Serbia that will be much more efficient and economical, thus providing a significantly higher quality of service to citizens. Only a professional, efficient and economical administration can be a factor in the stability of the state itself and a successful institution of overall economic and social change in society. As Serbia's progress and development is very important for the SNS in all segments of society, I have also submitted Amendment 1 to Article 1 of this Law, which is further defined to ensure that local self-government co-operation with the state administration provides for a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to undeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39715	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39716	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, co-operation between local self-government and state administration in the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, but especially in the area of culture, which gives this amendment some meaning. What kind of culture are we supposed to talk about today? About culture as the highest and most recognizable essence, about culture as a national trait, however it sounds to someone, who should shine out of every man, to spring from every institution of culture across the state space, of course, not just relying on big centres. It must be recognizable throughout the region, making a serious difference between non-transient values. Our cultural identity should be the roof of the entire heritage of the entire cultural heritage, but that's not enough. Cultural identity must be constantly built up, constantly complemented, in order to ensure the future above all else. And the nations are mortal, not just human, not only singles, Academyman Dragan Nedeljkovic warned. Many have died out, disappeared despite the great cultural heritage. Why? Well, there was no upgrade, there was no further development, there were other memories, there were other monuments, there were other historical structures, and there was no identity as living tissue, and so the people were gone. Culture is our basic weapon in the direction of survival as well as demographic politics. Cultural identity must not be an incident, as one part of the Serbian opposition recently sees it. Trafficblocks, poisoned water lines, missing journalists, it's all an incident that needs to be invented and directed. You live for the incident because you're living off the incident, it's being financed, it's being paid today. What's the end result of every incident? Well, chaos. Such a policy of directing chaos only confirms the fact that the worst always finds the worst. And the worst policy finds its associates and followers, said the great Ivo Andric. Ideology is ephemeral, but fortunately, the consumer haters of this government and Serbia's stability are part of the short term. It takes two or three days, and in this parliament, according to counterpart Jovanovic, they continue until lunchtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39717	I thank my colleague Krlic. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39718	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, we have before us a law on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government that we are discussing and represents a classic example of decentralisation, i.e. the transfer of certain functions of central authorities to lower bodies, in this case to local self-government. The proposal further defines the situation and importance, ensuring greater independence of local self-government, determining the competences, which is particularly significant, stressing the increased participation of citizens and other interested entities on issues from the authority of the local self-government unit. All this is in line with the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with SNS and its president, Mr Alexander Vukic, and with the goal of making local self-government strong, autonomous and developed environments capable of providing every citizen with a decent and decent life. The local self-governments we from the SNS in Vojvodina found in 2016, taking responsibility over them, were completely devastated, over-indebted and robbed to the point where there was no perspective for them at all that they could function on their own for a long time and as such survive. Debts inherited from the previous regime in the Municipality of Novi Knezevic were greater than the total revenues of the municipality's budget and that there was no co-operation with the Government of Serbia and then its president, Aleksandra Vukic, the accounts of the Municipality of Novi Knezevac would still be blocked today. This was an example of the high degree of co-operation of local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia and evidence that local self-government can be preserved, then developed and progressed only with the care and assistance of the state and its bodies, with the application of a policy of even development insisted by the President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vucic. All this is in favour of the amendments I have submitted to point out that the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and promotes the work of local self-government, with the obligation of general coordination in the work of all state and local authorities. Co-ordinated work, today when this country is led by Aleksandar Vucic, has already been established and has given results with which Serbian citizens are proud, and they say that we are on a good path and that we have a better future that we are all obliged to leave our children and generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39719	Thank you, colleague Jancic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just now from one opposition representative, otherwise the former president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, we could hear him sneeringly speaking about the best mayor in Serbia, Mayor of Novi Sad, Mr. Milos Vučevic. He was spoken of by a man who, as former president of Smederevska Palanka municipality, made the most in charge of the municipality in Serbia that had been blocked for as many as 257 days, a man who founded 19 public enterprises, all of whom ended up in a blockade at the end of his term and how one company went bankrupt, so he opened another. Not only that, but also the homes of health, school, and even the cemetery had a blocked account when he finished his term. The money was also drawn through FK “Jasenica 1911” which has no club bodies, but has registered players, and founded an institution, a sports organisation – GFK “Jasenica 1911”, as an indirect user of the budget and through this institution made payment of premiums and scholarships and raised 300 thousand dinars per day to checks without cover. According to the State Auditor's report, through this institution only in 2012, without foundation, paid 17 million dinars, and in 2013, over 20 million dinars were paid to this club. So, the top former president of Smederevska Palanka municipality, which takes into the mouth of the best mayor in Serbia, according to the DRI report only in 2012 spent without a credible document of 163 million dinars. While he was doing so, let's see how Mayor Milos Vučević does: five thousand new jobs and a new industrial zone for the town of Novi Sad, 700 million dinars more than the profit tax was in the city register than it was in 2016, which shows, gentlemen, how many new employees in Novi Sad. The city's cash register is down for over six billion dinars. We are opening the most modern emergency building in Serbia on Wednesday. We have over 700 new construction sites in Novi Sad. Yes, the city no longer owes itself to mundane bonds like it was during the yellow company, when three and a half billion dinars of municipal bonds were in debt and we had 7% interest, over a billion dinars paid interest on it. The city doesn't have to do this anymore, because it has six billion dinars in it, and it can finance its infrastructure projects on its own. It's a success and that's why he can't put it in his mouth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39721	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39722	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the law is necessary in order to bring the provisions of this law in line with the laws governing certain issues of importance for the work and functioning of local self-government. The proposed solutions highlight the involvement of citizens and other interested parties in the public debate, i.e. the initiation of a public debate on issues from the authority of the local self-government unit. These legal solutions will enable better inter-municipal co-operation and improve the mechanisms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, as well as ensure public participation in the preparation of the draft laws and other rules of the state administration body. The local self-government of the town of Loznica, headed by Mayor Vido Petrovic, operates on principle -- as much as you have, you can spend as much. The city's budget is slightly less than two billion dinars, but when it's domestically distributed, it has everything to do with it. This is the case for infrastructure i.e. for the construction of new asphalt August from the 2018 budget of local self-government project and project documentation of 337.5 million dinars, for the atarian roads of eight million, for hydrotechnical works 25, for the construction of urban projects and project documentation 61 million, the reconstruction of public lighting 15 million, the promotion of security in traffic of eight million, the reconstruction of one pre-school facility "Bambi" 72 million, investment in school facilities 25 million, investment in sport 40 million, support for employment of 20 million, promotional measures and measures in the field of social policy such as family support, single family assistance with children, money support to a family with no job and family with three children, young married couples in the form of 70 million marriages, support to the best students and students in the context of city awards and scholarships 14 million, support to individuals over 65 million years old, free shipping of 15 million. The city's budget is liquid and all obligations are settled in good time. This clearly shows how local management refers to the taxpayer's money. to your fellow citizens. Thanks to the good communication of local self-government with our government and the support of our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic in Loznica should soon arrive two investors who would employ 1,500 workers, which would solve the biggest problem of our work, which is new jobs. The local self-government of the town of Loznica carries out its work the policy of SNS and our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who was appointed an honorary citizen of Loznica on Saturday 16 June and will always have absolute support for everything he does for our citizens and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39723	I'd like to thank my colleague Grubor. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39724	I thank the chairman. Respected, Serbia monitors developed systems and European countries with a quality system of local administrations, promoting its own local self-government, and all in order to enable citizens to have a better quality of life, as well as easier and cheaper access to local services. The years, even the decade-long functioning of irresponsible people whose focus was everything but the quality of life of citizens, led to the collapse of the economy and the closure of jobs, the closure of factories. With SNS headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is not only more stable, but is on the path of modernisation, the development that brings Serbia an ever-increasing international position, an ever-increasing position on world-renowned lists, and most importantly, a growing and more quality life for our citizens. I am pleased that all participants in the system are working together following the SNS programme, putting the quality of life of citizens first. That's what the visible results say on both the local and the republican level. The proposal to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, which is on the agenda today, is in favour of improving the system of the entire state apparatus at all levels of government. Local democracy can only be promoted in conditions of political and economic stability in which the state demonstrates a clear willingness to allow that level of government lower than national to address the interests of the entire local community with the participation of citizens most effectively. Thanks to the proposal to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, which we are discussing today, local administration is no longer seen as a segment of the state which is a fundamental role to implement laws and decisions, but to be a public service and service to all citizens in which services are provided more effectively and efficiently and better alive. I must express my satisfaction that this is another in a series of activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS headed by President Aleksandr Vukic in the implementation of Serbia's development programme. My colleagues from the SNS and I will give support to this law in the voting day, and I call on fellow MPs to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39725	Thank you, colleagues. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39726	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the president of the state, Mr Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are conducting a very serious, responsible and wise policy, peace and stability policy, economic recovery policy, prosperity and development of Serbia, as are the laws we are discussing at today's session. I have submitted amendments concerning public health as one of the very important components of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, in his 2016 exhibition, said among other things: “In the next period, in order to make our healthcare system better, we intend to focus on the availability and facilities of healthcare, more efficient and quality service and a better prevention system. In addition, the Serbian government is focused on providing new and modern diagnostic equipment such as scanners, magnetic resonances and ultrasound apparatus for all health institutions in Serbia," the end of the quote. Accordingly, I must and has an obligation to point out in the past year the most significant achievements of the Ministry of Health. With the beginning of work, Clinical Centre Nis at the end of 2017, Serbia received the most modern and modern clinic in this part of Europe. The new Nis Clinical Centre at 48,000 m2 also has better conditions for the diagnosis of diseases for more than 2.5 million inhabitants of the region that are gravitating in this health facility from Presevo to Jagodina, from the border towards Bulgaria to Kruševac and plus 300,000 inhabitants of Nis. In a complex of a new Clinical Centre built according to the model of smart buildings and one of the largest operating blocks in Serbia, in the Balkans with 16 state-of-the-art surgical halls, three angel halls, two emergency centres. Furthermore, the acquisition of new accelerators is a confirmation of a firm definition of the Ministry of Health to modernise and improve our country's health system. With the purchase of six new linear accelerators, Serbia meets the world criteria of air therapy apparatus per capita, i.e. 250,000 inhabitants are receiving one apparatus. The health ministry in recent years has also left four linear accelerators worth about 700 million dinars, at the Nis Two Apparatus Clinical Centre, the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, and the Oncology and Radiology Institute of Serbia in Belgrade. The introduction of an electronic recipe is a continuation of the full implementation of an integrated health information system aimed at ensuring a faster and more efficient functioning of the health system. Currently, 98 of the 163 primary health care facilities that have the right to prescribe the E-recept are located in the system as of 20 May 2018. 22,785,678 recipes are prescribed. Of which 1,618,325 is chronic renewable therapy. 3,196 pharmacies were registered, as well as 5,852 pharmacists. So 29 new health institutions were included on 31 May 2018, and by 30 June 2018 the whole implementation process on the territory of all Serbia will be completed. By obtaining the most modern "x knife", which is defined by around 800 million dinars, and with new accelerators, Serbia gets a round story about treating cancer patients by standards of higher health and all world standards. The procedure is under way, and it is expected that our citizens can get the opportunity by the end of the year to treat themselves free of charge on the "ix knife" next to the "gam knife", which has been working in the Clinical Centre of Serbia for almost two years, which makes it impossible for more wealthy countries to allow their citizens. In our country, this is the way radiotherapy has not been implemented so far, and the purchase of such apparatus will significantly improve the quality of radiotherapy. The current treatment of our citizens on the "ix knife" in other countries is carried out at a minimum price of 20,000 euros, indicating enough importance for the acquisition of "x knife" and financial savings for our country. I will talk about further results from the work of the Ministry of Health according to the following amendments, but, Mr Milicevic, in the end, I want to comment on something that has fallen into my ears. It is miserable and miserable when a man is self-centered, when a man is uncritical, when he is full of himself, when his mouth is full of himself about some of his magnificent works, which has no mild connection, indeed, with truth and reality, really sick, and in doing so they have so much in debt to the citizens of Serbia that they have to change their aggregates, to go through needle ears, from party to party to party, to survive, to cross the censorship, because citizens simply won't. They've put so many citizens in charge of their space works, the citizens won't even live to hear of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39727	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39728	Thank you. The esteemed representatives of the government, fellow MPs, respected citizens, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, and what I want to talk about and what I will specifically address is the following. The fact is that SNS citizens from 2012 to 2014 in full capacity, after a decade of collapse, entrusted care to the state. The fact is that since 2016 most local self-government, cities and municipalities, also by citizens, have entrusted SNS. And wherever we are, wherever we are, we show how the home government works. It is seen, not only at the republic's level, where today the president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, the international public sees it as the leader of the region, and the absolute majority of Serbian citizens as its real host. In the town where I come from, in Novi Sad Milos Vučević, there is this real newly-sad host who takes care of his town the way he promised the citizens. In addition to my fellow MPs' diabolical comments, particularly the younger Milojičić, who says the mayor of Novi Sad is opening bicycles, so, gentlemen, here's how much the day after tomorrow a magnificent emergency building opens up, 2,700 squares on three floors. The town of Novi Sad is not in charge, the mayor opens new jobs, opens new plants, new factories and at the same time the Mayor of Novi Sad visits his citizens on a daily basis, visits every place where something is happening, which is being built, renovated, raises the level of service provision, in one word - the host takes care of his home, unlike local self-government where the government does not operate SNS. Fortunately, for us there are no opposition and positional municipalities, for us there are local self-governments in the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, if you continue to fall into your country in the most brutal manner, by filing complaints and letters, as Mr Paunovic did, by sending a letter to the Congress Committee of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, where he complained about organized and synchronised attacks that, with the abuse of state institutions and media, are carried out by the ruling SNS, and at the same time in 2017, he announced that Paracino had never received 35 million dinars as the largest in the last ten years, it could be very dangerous. I am absolutely convinced that it is very trendy and that there are really people who would sell and believe for dinner, or sell their own people for a piece or a piece of power. Gentlemen, try to be constructive sometimes and to contribute to the development of Serbia as SNS does with Aleksandra Vukic, and run local self-government like Milos Vučević and be sure, we will all last together for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39729	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39730	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted this amendment with the idea that I would only point out the importance and role of local self-government with the state administration. We have heard really different discussions these days, I would not say that they were all meaningful in terms of reality, but what is important to point out are figures that clearly show that since the arrival of SNS to power, unemployment rates have been reduced to 14%, and citizens know very well how much it amounted to in 2012, over 25%. It is these figures that clearly demonstrate the intention of the regime and today's government, which is a priority in the management of the state, and hence local self-government. Just an increase in the number of jobs is what is the priority of Aleksandra Vukic and today's government led by Mrs Ana Brnabic. I'll just remind you that several investments have been opened in recent years that have been employed by Serbian citizens. First of all, it is "Continental", "Lir", "Delfaj", "IGB", "Henkel" and many others and what is most important is that investments are properly distributed. No one can say that municipalities are not evenly represented in attracting investments, and that is exactly the link that is necessary to achieve this result, i.e. a good connection between local self-government and state administration. It is precisely this development and not-developed municipalities, which have left us in the amannet of the previous regime, which is important for Serbian citizens across the territory to find their jobs. The government of the Republic of Serbia is working to ensure that a large number of young people are employed and to find their jobs, above all in these investments that are coming. The confirmation of this is certainly the title Novi Sad received, it is the youth capital of culture, which has just come as a confirmation from the international community for what has been done in the town of Novi Sad, the employment of young people and their comprehensive need for young people to remain in the Republic of Serbia. This really does not need to discuss who is right and who is running local self-government and state, because citizens have made it clear in the elections and each time show that the SNS is the one who wants to lead them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39731	Thank you, colleague Maletic. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39732	Dear gentlemen, I'd like to ask the minister to be focused because I'm going to talk about a particular problem that is related to all local self-government. After these changes and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government, the law is certainly better and closer to the goal of local administration being the service of citizens, but much more needs to be done to achieve this goal. The problem I want to talk about is the property of local self-government. The property of local self-government is divided into two groups. The first group, it is property owned by local self-government, and the second part of the property is property made available to local self-government. I responsibly claim here, in front of the citizens, the minister, all of you, that there is no local self-government in Serbia that has listed all that property. It must be done by the Ministry of Local Self-Government, to exercise control, and only when it is listed, to see what function the property is in, and I argue that it does not contribute as much as 10% as it could be useful in filling the budget of local self-government. You, Minister, have very nicely transformed Article 88, and then you have completed this article 88a, 88b, a,b,v,g, right. That allowed all local self-government to be combined. I welcome that. It means that human resources join together, that technique joins together and this common problem is solved. Because, I'm saying, the original incomes of local self-government haven't even been used for 10%. If they were used, then there could be a reduction in some items burdening citizens of local self-government. The burden on citizens of local self-government is a tax on the property of local self-government citizens. All local self-governments, mostly, apply that rule – three last transactions and a percentage of 0.4% and is always equal or greater. We have to ask it to be equal or less, it can't be anymore. Why? If these three transactions, which serve as an algorithm for determining the price of a square meter, do not give the possibility of a reduction, local self-government can take a percentage of 0.3%, it can take a percentage of 0.2%. These are all ways to improve the standard of citizens and I ask that the ministry in future work has closer, more frequent contact with local self-government in order to monitor and control. Because, I say, the resources of local self-government have not been used. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39733	Thank you. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39734	Thank you, Chairman. With the amendment I would like to point out that the co-operation of local self-government and state administration units certainly ensures the development of the Republic of Serbia. And when the tasks set before it by local self-government are aimed exclusively at improving the quality of life of citizens and starting with the obligation of local self-government to provide infrastructure, I point out that one of the main elements and traffic infrastructure, i.e. traffic connection, is one of the main elements. By coming to the head of the SNS with President Aleksandra Vukic, the traffic infrastructure has been recognised as an inescapable condition of any progress, and it is absolutely undeniable that good infrastructure is necessary to attract new investments for the construction of factories, hence, and the creation of new jobs. An example of responsible co-operation between the state administration and local self-government, aimed at achieving conditions for a better life for citizens, is present in Ub municipality. In the last six years, the responsible management of the Ub municipality has built a record number of untegorized municipal roads, i.e. the municipal roads of the first and second order, and soon the implementation of a project worth 40 million dinars is expected, an example of co-operation by the Ministry of Industry and local self-government. The funds will build five city streets on which citizens have been waiting for decades. Addressing the problem, enabling better and better quality of life, working in local self-government such that the place in which it seems to become a desirable destination for staying and working, where it takes care of every category of citizens, where today we have a record number of open construction sites, where all segments of essential importance, the reconstruction of health institutions, the construction of new schools, the reconstruction of existing schools and the construction of new institutions, i.e. kindergartens, the evaluation of roads and streets. With all that, there's a stable budget, currently 70 million dinars with all the outstanding liabilities. These are indicators that describe the response to the declared trust of SNS citizens and the example of hardworking, dedicated work, work in the interest of citizens by the management of Ub municipality. Everything I've been talking about, there's evidence of facts in the field. We cannot be told that we have been irresponsible to the budget, to the citizens when we have conditions for a better life and it is devastating to hear in Serbia about the way that citizens pay their money, which was an example in the Smederjevska Palanca and that they talk about the work and responsibility of those who created it, they will create what citizens need and citizens know and see that for decades some have failed even the quality of the impact holes to resuscitate while they were presidents in their municipalities, and today on these roads they have a quality fine range that they are passing by, this is just one example of how they respond to the public's expressed trust and how the SNS works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39735	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39736	Dear colleagues and colleagues, mostly today's discussion has come down to us all telling us what the situation in our local self-government is. The most bright examples are those related to cities, or municipalities and localities in the developed part of Serbia, or the more developed part of Serbia. But Serbia is not only made up of these cities and municipalities, Serbia is made up of our villages. The village is in rapid disappearance and decay, and if we don't make an account in the future, we'll have big problems. Today, there are about 4600 villages in Serbia and about 55% of our country's inhabitants live in it. If it continues at this rate, those who are trained to do so predict that in 20 years around 1200 villages will be unconditional for life and will be uninhabited. What are the problems of today's village? One of the most important problems is that young people are increasingly leaving the village and going either to our cities or across Europe and the world to find conditions for a better life. Then, the educational structure of the population is very low. The degree of social health care is very low and I'm going to tell you on a case from Black Grass. Black grass had a dental service within the health care center and then the service was abolished for a reason it is not worth it for the state to continue to finance the service. Then came a new surprise, a pharmacy with the same explanation was abolished, does not operate on market conditions, or does business negatively. The state must also take account of those areas where there are fewer populations, especially in areas that are borderline, such as Black grass. On the other hand, the big problem is infrastructure. These rural roads are of very poor quality and when the weather comes and the winter period, they are also impenetrable. Another big problem is that the morale and motivation in the country is at a very low level. How can we put those villages in a position to live? There, Mr. Minister, you have a lot to help us too. I'm using this opportunity to invite you to stay with us in Black Treva, to see how a small, poor municipality lives and to find a common way to help this municipality and many other municipalities in Serbia that have the same problems. I'll give you one more problem to see what we're facing. In the village of Gornja Gare, there is a school building that no student has entered for 20 years. Not because those kids don't like school and they run away from school, but because they don't have kids. A few years ago, twins were born in that village, and I asked the hunter's society, the Hunters' Association, to help bring the school building into decent condition, so that in a few years, when these kids are due to go to school, they'll be in office. The hunters agreed, they responded, they wanted to redecorate it, and we agreed that one part that was the residential part where teachers, or teachers, used them as their own rooms, but to redecorate our classrooms so that those kids who went to school today would be conditions as normal as they were. It wasn't that building that was destroyed because someone was arrogant, so he destroyed it, but the tooth of time destroyed it. The roof structure has caved, the windows have fallen from the storms and wonders of all, broken, doors, glass, windows, etc. All that was nice, we needed the consent of the Black Grass elementary school, which we got, but now there are problems. He needs the I.D.'s consent, he needs the ministry's consent, and I went myself to look for it, to make a deal. I can't blame these people from the Directorate and the Ministry, they work in accordance with the law, but the law requires you to have a million restrictions that you can't meet. First, you can't assign that space to the association. I don't know why, but I guess that's how it's regulated. Secondly, it has to be a public tender, or something, where three, four, two, five, participants, etc. will appear. Well, I've barely managed to convince these guys to agree to do it. Who's gonna come in there and work and try? That state must be more flexible and allow at least those people who want to help, who are trying to do something, to do it in a really easier and simpler way. I hope, when Mr. Minister gets there and he sees the situation and he meets it, that it will be much easier for us to help these people in Black grass, as well as for all other people in Serbia who are in a similar position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39737	Thank you, colleague Stojmirovic. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Part of the proposed changes are in the function of removing the shortcomings in the current text of the Law on Local Self-Government, and they relate to the call for a session of the Assembly of the Municipality i.e. the city, pre-conditions for the successful exercise of the duties of the board, setting criteria for the identification of the number of members of the municipal i.e. The city council, the position of the municipality's assistant president, the resignation of the president of the municipality, the change of the working-law status of deputy president of the Assembly, as well as the composition and work of the International Relations Council. Among the important newspapers is certainly a completely amended concept of determining the jurisdiction of the municipality, by not listing the tasks of the unit of local self-government listed areas where local self-government units have competences under specific sectoral laws in these areas. What I'm saying is, in early February in Bujanovac, we had the opening of a jumko factory that employed 64 workers. Currently, the final stage for employment is another 64 workers, which means that a total of 128 workers will work at the Jumko factory in Bujanovac. It's an extraordinary thing for our community. What's certainly not good is that there is no support for the municipal government. In addition to being properly invited by JUMKO to attend the opening of this factory, they did not attend. This showed an irresponsible attitude towards the economy, both to the economy and to the citizens of our municipality. On the one hand, incomes from taxes and contributions will be poured into the municipal register, thus creating conditions for the construction of roads, waterways, schools, kindergartens, and on the other hand the employment of people from the territory of our municipality, which is part of undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39739	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39740	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment aimed at seeing local self-government co-operation with the state administration through which the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is ensured with a special reference to the state administration. Local self-government is the most important and the first link between citizens and executive authorities, through which citizens can exercise their rights and guide the initiative towards local self-government and make proposals for certain investments, their implementation in parts of the city or municipalities, with respect to urban rules. The Serbian Progressive Party, applying this principle in Belgrade, went a step further with the project "To Work and Build According to Yours", gave the citizens of Belgrade the opportunity to decide on investments from local self-government's jurisdiction, planning projects that are in line with urban and construction regulations. In this way 22 000 citizens' proposals were received, and the city's budget for the implementation of these projects provided 200 million dinars with an additional 170m dinars intended to finance projects in urban municipalities. An analysis of Belgrade's citizens' demands concluded that the majority of citizens stressed the need to build a sewage network. The responsible authority, led by the SNS in Belgrade, responded to this request by making and presenting the project "Belgrade 2025". The project clearly envisions financial resources for the realisation and dynamics of works to build a sewage network on the territory of the entire city of Belgrade and in all city municipalities. The government in local self-government, led by the SNS, in cities and municipalities where the presidents and mayors of the ranks are, will continue to work on this principle and ask citizens for their opinion and include them in making decisions important for the functioning of the environment in which they live, and also respect the electoral will that is absolutely on the side of politics, which was presented to SNS and Aleksandar Vucic in the elections. Given the fact that the resolution minister has continued a clear policy, launched by Ana Brnabic at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, which is a reform and modernisation of the functioning of local self-government in the interests of citizens and the development of the Republic of Serbia. The SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the voting day, and I call on fellow MPs to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39741	I'd like to thank my colleague, Zeleg. By amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39742	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, since local self-government is a very important topic, I have one more question to ask. Since I don't know, after all, are the different dialogues that work with us or monologues being abused on purpose or out of ignorance? I'm even more and more convinced that it's not malicious, it's out of ignorance. Here, I'm asking you a question from local self-government, the minister and his associates, all of which are experts for local self-government, is it possible anywhere in the world, especially in Serbia to pay local self-government employees through a football club? Since we listen to it every day by the SNS, as I am, of course, as a yellow thief and all of us yellow from the DS that's no good, of course we've ruined Belgrade worse than the Germans and various nebulises and untrues, and we hear among other things that I, as former president of the Smederevska Palanka municipality, have been releasing salaries to employees in local self-government in the authorities of the administration, through a football club. People, your voters don't believe that either. I am asking a specific question here to answer me – is it possible and has anyone ever done this in local self-government? If I don't get an answer, and of course all of you can check it out real quick, then please don't really dissuade the public. I know why it's important for you to say -- here, Kenna's been in Golobok all day with the citizens, and then you don't know what you're going to say, because you can't go there, no minister of yours was there, then you say -- he's being expelled from there. I invite everyone to go back to these people the next day, I've been all day, I've visited every house, I've sent a letter to both the European Union and the various institutions that I can. I've been calling here for three days all ministers to help Smederevska Palanca and come to Smederevska Palanka. I can't communicate with you in a different way, because from the Smederevska Palanka municipal administration I couldn't get the information, which I needed for the letter that I sent to Mr. Fabrizio, even the consequences of the damage, how many households were destroyed, how much arable agricultural land was destroyed. I can't write this man in a letter—you know, we're different parties, they don't have the consciousness to give me that information as a people's messenger. They didn't give me that information. I don't need it for my house, I need it for the citizens of Smederjev Palanka who lost everything. It's your policy that's harmful to citizens. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39743	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: I would like to ask the police minister's reply whether there was ever a salary paid through a football club for employees. If it is, I am resigning to my parliamentary term. Just a minute. The minister checked in. I guess he'll answer. Comrade Vujadinović, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39744	Thank you, Chairman. A member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. I think you had to warn Mr. Milojic's previous speaker when he said MPs were submitting amendments of evil intent or because of ignorance. You know very well that's not true, but at least it's an insult to the people who sit in this respected home. SNS MPs submit amendments not because of ignorance, not because of evil intentions, but because of concern for Serbia, because of the intention of rebuilding everything that has been destroyed in the past decades. If, after all, you will at least be immoral, and in some ways perhaps something exactly what Mr. Milojic said. The salaries in that municipality that he comes from, in which he has exercised power for years, not that they haven't, they haven't been paid at all, that's the biggest problem. You know that many public enterprises, in fact, all public enterprises and all public institutions, were in a long-standing blockade in that municipality, that people were able to work without profit... (Radoslav Milojic: So they were no longer played through football clubs? )......................................................................................................... And over the football club, money was paid for various things, usually in the name of one and the same companies, and among other things for those night bills by local cafes. Unfortunately, it's all true and at the very least it's immoral that a man like that is today giving sermons to people who come from the SNS and trying to make such a situation that has been so built on their feet for years and put things back into one true state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39745	Thank you. Col. Vujadinovic, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the orderly violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39746	Thank you, Chairman. So, as you know, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has one sector -- administrative inspection, which deals with deadlines, administrative matters, so we don't have that kind of jurisdiction to determine whether or not they paid their salaries through a football club, but what we certainly know and what we were working on both in the previous year and during the current prime minister's time at the head of this ministry, that is to try to resuscitate a really bad situation, an inflation of the establishment of institutions and businesses in the specific municipality of Smederevska Palanka, and in that field we've really done a lot. Also, for the sake of truth, this morning you said one thing that just doesn't stand, now you've done it again, I'm sure it's just a failure, that it's not a tendency, so the second day after the elementary disasters in Smederjevska Palanca, there was State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture Mr. Radosevic. In each of the municipalities, the government and the resolution ministry have practically defined one of the State Secretarys to visit them. As for the particular Smederevska Palanca, Svilajnca, there will be one of the State Secretarys of the Ministry, whose head I am, given that I am obliged to attend this session of parliament here. So, you don't need to panic and on that one, I'd say, an accident that happened to win or try to get some political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39747	Thank you, Minister Rose. Mr. Milojitsu, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39748	Nice to meet you. We've solved one thing. It's not known if the football club has been paid, i.e. There's no evidence and that's not true. I'm glad we got this sorted out and I'm asking you to translate it to those who don't understand it from your right. That's the first thing. On the other hand, State Secretary Radosevic is in Smederjevska Palanca every day, he sleeps in Smederjevska Palanca, he lives in Smederjevska Palanca. So, please, I asked nicely where 17 SNS ministers, led by the prime minister, who spent a month each day, some and twice, in Smederjevska Palanca during the election campaign? Why didn't one minister come, we have seven flooded municipalities, and 20 ministers probably, so is it possible that only Smederjevska Palanka could no single minister come? That's the question. You let Secretary of State Zeljko Radosevic come to Smederjevska Palanka every night to sleep there, he's from there, and he's asking himself in the ministry and in the government a little less than I do, it means nothing. The specific question is – SNS Minister, who, when will come to Smederjevska Palanka? Because they showed us a month ago that they're taking a lot of care of the Smederian Palanca. Every day there were two of them, three of them in the election campaign. They promised tractors, promised regulation of Jasenica and Kubrsnica streams completed, promised to reconstruct the hospital, reconstruct the gymnasium. I will be the first, as someone who is born and lives in Smederjevska Palanca, to welcome anything to help Smederjevska Palanca, regardless of which political options it came from. But I ask when, here, five days will pass, at least one single minister will come to Smederjevska Palanka from the ranks of SNS, as they stayed there, we couldn't throw them out in an election campaign. Or the citizens of Pancheva, the Alibunara who were also... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39749	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39750	Thank you, Chairman. The usual image to run to the door when answers are received. I think you've allowed the 106th and 107th members of this Rules of Procedure to be re-injured. I understand the former speaker's concern about when the ministers will come to Smederjevska Palanka, because he only cares about the question of whether the minister of police and the minister of justice will come there, who are very interested in all the thief who is the previous speaker, while he was the president of the municipality, made it. A member of 106 was injured by it, and you allowed it, is the Assembly a place for debate and a story, but for an exercise to serve someone to defend themselves before a public prosecutor, before the court tomorrow for all the thieving he did, yet you should not allow it, and Serbian citizens are not obliged to listen. Let Mr. Milojicic's lawyers listen to that when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39751	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. I made it possible for Milojic to replicate, he had a basis for replication, and it is difficult to predict what he would talk about during two minutes of exposure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39752	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am advocating Article 103, but with regard to article 107 and damage to dignity and the reputation of the National Assembly, because of what was said by the previous speaker, I am not referring to Mr Komlenski, but to Mr Milojic, who is known as "heineken". And why is he known for such a nickname? Because while he was in power at the Smederjevska Palanca, which he now dives crocodile tears here, the only thing he remains famous for is that he drank 343 beers in one evening, and so on "Heineken" beer. I am now concerned about his property condition, since Heineken is one of the more expensive beers and that drinking so many beers must require huge financial expenditures. I've been sent by citizens to hand over to the gentleman across the street, and here, it's free tokens, which is a kind of voucher for Heineken beer. With this he can get a Heineken beer for free, which he cares so much about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39753	Col. Markovic, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the orderly violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. You can certainly exchange that after the session. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39754	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I think that citizens of everyone's work have a court and we can't be here with our replicas, especially meaningless replicas like the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39755	Just name a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39756	... to influence their opinion. I'm advertising Article 108. About who the most people in the area are talking about and where he lives. I live in the village of Glibovac, where I was born and raised. I'm proud of my village, and I'm proud of my forest. And now, in this election, with all the theft, thieving and harassment by the government, I've got 36% on my constituency. And those who appear without a name, Alexander Vukic, can't get two, and the previous genius is the only municipality in Serbia, Vračar, who lost the election when Vukic won everywhere, and that's the genius who just picked up. And what could he do with Vesic? Well, to steal two councilmen and transfer most of them. And that's why I'm not going to give him a opener or a beer cap, like he did to me, I'm going to handcuff him. In the end, since I have two minutes, I think it's unnecessary for us to talk here about you being obliged to warn a speaker from Alexander Vulin's party, a man who said his aunt had bought him an apartment for 300,000 euros, and that, beware, not his aunt but his wife's aunt, and the man who sent cannons to the students. I don't think there's anything to talk about with people like that, and that Serbia is falling apart, as it falls into economic, agricultural, economic and other spheres, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39757	My colleague Milojičić, before you go to Mr. Gilas, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? (No) (Radoslav Milojic): Now I'm going to talk to Gilas. Now you can go to Mr. Gilas. A fellow Milojicic had to leave us. You heard the reason we're not doing it again. Of course, colleague Komlenski, that doesn't mean you don't have the opportunity to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39758	I thank the chairman. Article 103 was injured because we had a classic abuse of Rules of Procedure just before. The fact that Mr. Milojic now publicly admitted that he had gone to Gilas, he probably went to exchange experiences about how money from the state budget should be stolen and emptied through football clubs where institutions were created with nothing and nothing deserved. But what is interesting, which Gilas failed to covertly transfer, a huge amount of construction land in the city of Belgrade, while it ruled, has already been seen, is likely now that Mr Milojic will explain to him that his time has stolen 2.7 hectares of state land and transferred to private property, from Jasenica Football Club to Milomir Grujic, 1.7 hectares and some others.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39759	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Comrade Markovic, I thank you for giving up and having an understanding of the importance and importance of returning to what is the topic of today's current session. We're continuing with the amendments. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Milosav Milojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39760	Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government which amends Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, I propose that Article 2 be added, which reads: "The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration will ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector." In this regard, this amendment of the coordination of local self-government and state administration, with the improvement of the private sector, is introduced as one of the concepts that define local self-government and its activities in the interests of its citizens. The coordination and mutual co-operation of the state institution and local self-government units are particularly important. We are aware that over the past few years, by bringing Serbia closer to the EU, by harmonising standards, regulations and laws that define specific areas more clearly and precisely, there has been a development of the private sector. A much larger volume of exports, the placement of goods on foreign markets, the possibility of breaking through our private companies, the company, has led to the development of the entire economy. I believe that the key thing in this process is just co-operation between local self-government and competent ministries, so that they can properly allocate funds available through EU funds for projects of general interest. A few days ago, two new plants for the production of powdered material and a liquid programme for the color, bow and facade industry were opened in Arangelovac, as well as the automatic storage of Bekament goods. More than eightm euros were invested in the project, and in addition to numerous respected businessmen and other guests, the vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, was present. The investment of the municipality of Arangelovac will give them the opportunity to develop even more and the chance to create new jobs. I cited this example as another in a series, which remained as a fruit of excellent co-operation between local self-government and government, which I donated more than 70 workers to Bekament and some time ago. Not only this, but other companies in the Arangelovac municipality's territory over the past few years have achieved significant export growth, an increase in production and employed several hundred new workers. The development of the private sector, with more than obvious co-operation, brings results and our desire is to continue this practice in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39761	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Stanija Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39762	Thank you, Chairman. By adopting the Bill on Local Self-Government, together with other draft laws that lie ahead and whose proposal has been submitted by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, we achieve a more efficient work of municipalities and cities, a more professional and modern service of citizens of Serbia. With the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, we encourage citizens to initiative and engage in the process of preparing part of the budget of local self-government. Citizens will have the opportunity to say what to build, more to influence policymaking and to launch initiatives of importance for their environment. It will take care of optimization, a tendency to reduce the number of local officials compared to the number of residents and the municipality or city. Encouraging cities to cooperate more and help each other in lack of capacity, and returning to local communities the role of the old one had and the tendency to be places to identify, problems and to discuss citizens' problems. A mechanism for performing the tasks of a municipality or city is established which are of interest to citizens such as municipal, inspection and similarities that accompany these municipalities or cities. A comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the state administration aims at transforming the state into a service of citizens and simplifying administrative procedures. My amendment to Article 1 of this Law refers to the overall development of a society with special reference to the improvement of the judiciary. Building an efficient judicial system and a better business environment leads to a rapid settlement of disputes. New professions, new laws, all in order to improve the security of all citizens. We do all this to eliminate the harmful consequences that have caused our societies, our municipalities and cities to do with their rule, so we are removing the consequences and moving forward, faster, stronger and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39763	Thank you, colleague Compirovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39764	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which puts an emphasis on financing institutions dealing with childcare. I believe that the introduction of this law already requires an appropriate provision to define the development of the Republic of Serbia through the prism of children's rights. First of all, I would like to stress that the amendments provided for by this bill relate to the change in the way of determining the competence and units of local self-government in the work of the Assembly, the municipal council and the administration, the improvement of the mechanism of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, the reform of the functioning of local communities and the strengthening of community co-operation and that they are as such of great importance, since this law has been working since 2013. Optimisation of the number of municipal and city officials and employees, participation of citizens in the process of drawing up a budget decision and strengthening community co-operation will lead to more productive work of the local self-government unit, greater participation of citizens in policy-making, better and more efficient work of officials, as well as further reforms of the wage system. This will allow local self-government units to create momentum in the overall development of the public and directly and indirectly private sector, and thus also allow better conditions for the quality of our children's lives. We now have examples of good practice, where urban municipalities, besides certain institutions, show marked child care in their activities. Highlighting several in the sea of important and important actions for children, I would like to give an example of the work of the city's Palilu municipality, which in the past two years has shown and proved that even though infrastructure problems are the biggest, and child care is, of course, all present. For example, in 2017, GO Palilula shared 1,800 baby carts in the framework of the action "To grow together" and the same family action with the refurbishments is expected this year. Six new playgrounds have been built over the past two years, and a large number of existing and reconstructed playgrounds have been built. What is important and what I want to point out, GO Palilula, in co-operation with the MUP, has introduced video surveillance into 17 primary schools in her territory to ensure greater safety of students, and as a reward for excellent success, has provided travel. Then, support for sports clubs, tournaments organised by municipalities, as well as actions titled “We swim together” in a wonderful way teach children the right values. The organization of holiday events, carnivals, such as "The Easter Carnival" or "The Open Heart Street", promotes family values, as well as tradition and culture. I would like to remind you that for the second year in a row in Palillula, a division of new year's packages for children is being organised for 7,500 young people. This and other investment in infrastructure, in roads, kindergartens, green areas, parks, will enable faster development of our country and allow children to have quality childhood. In this way, we show that we all have to work together for our youngest, that we always have a priority as the birthright and better conditions for the lives of children in Serbia. We must fight to keep us as long as possible from year to year in order to preserve our people and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39765	Thank you, colleague Mijatovic. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39766	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will speak of the importance of local self-government from the aspect of the realization of a very important programme. It's the so-called. A regional housing programme aimed at solving the problem of hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons, primarily in the area of housing. Before that, I would like to remind the public that local self-government in Serbia during the previous period had an obligation to adopt so-called. Local action plans have thus taken responsibility to address the problem of this vulnerable category of Serbian citizens, not only in the area of housing, but also in the area of employment, i.e. economic empowerment of citizens. What is special to point out is that without local self-government, it is not possible to implement this regional housing programme that takes place in four forms. In the first place - building apartments, second place - buying rural estates, third place - installing houses and finally - assigning a package of building materials for that part of the refugees and displaced persons who cannot finish the homes themselves that they would finally move into after more than 20-25 years of living as tenants. What I particularly appeal to is that local self-government, primarily the competent departments for urban and property-legal affairs, on the one hand, and the refugee trustees, on the other hand, are more efficient and faster in co-operation with the Commissioner for Refugees realising this regional housing programme. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems in the field. It is quite late to realize this programme and it is therefore very important that the Commissioner for Refugees, together with the leaders of local self-government, organise meetings where there are problems, to see what is controversial, to solve these problems as quickly as possible. Also, I'm personally ready to get involved. I think it's important here, too, that the Ministry of State and local self-government and the minister himself, that we can address him if we see that this problem cannot be solved in a particular local self-government. I think that together with the Ministry of this problem we can solve that problem to be realised, because it threatens big donors, that the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, which implements this project, withdraws these funds and that these funds are not fully exploited and that we still have the unresolved issue of these people. The key objective of this programme is that, in collaboration with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, in co-operation with municipalities and cities, we can finally say in the next two to three years that we have no more refugee or displaced family living as a tenant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39767	Thank you. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39768	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 to point out that the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration affects best the financing of social institutions. First of all, I can say with pride that the arrival of the SNS at the head of the city in 2014 started a very socially responsible policy because all obligations are paid in time. Unfortunately, I must say, we have found a debt of one billion and 200 million euros. So much was in charge of the city in 2013. On today, zero debts. What is most tragic is that in 2013, 130 million dinars remained in debt to the socially endangered population. One-time cash aid to Serbia's most vulnerable population has not been paid. In 2015, we fully regulated it. As I talk about the amendments, I'll talk about the debts we paid by 2017 every time. Most importantly, local self-government finances the material costs of the social work centre. It also finance one-time payment for citizens who are in a state of social need, the development of social services is funded for better functioning, and what may be most important is the financing of and the corresponding individual jobs of local self-government if the need for this is shown. For example, while and now migration is still taking place, or migrants were in our country, millions of them, and at some social work centre, the need for lawyers was shown. This kind, for better functioning and speed, is financed by local self-government and not only that, local self-government finances and material social protection costs. These are office materials, fuel, technical equipment and other things, thus showing responsibility for all citizens of their city, or republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39769	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39770	I thank the Honorable Chairman. On a very good and high - quality bill, I have made an amendment with the intention of improving it and strengthening it. That this is a good bill of law tells us and extremely rarely filled benches across from us to come across from time to time by which an MP who holds a fire, pre-election political speech and then run out and hurry to have a beer. Why did I refer the amendment to Article 1? It is precisely because I said at the beginning, which is also through this law that the government of the Republic of Serbia tends to lead Serbia, above all, the president of the state and then the prime minister of the government to lead Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia, towards economic and sustainable development. Why would I mention that? This is my favorite topic of economic sustainable development, but without economic and sustainable development there is no sustainable local self-government. It is through this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government that sees the tendency of the Government and the Republic of Serbia, the tendency to modernise the work in local self-government, to correct the many shortcomings that exist in the work of local communities, as basic units of local self-government, and to define tasks and objectives to the end. When economic sustainable development in each of our places, I listened to a lot of discussions, here many fine discussions, colleagues who mentioned our poor birth in certain areas, well, if local self-government allows and brings in the infirmary and I heard also pharmacies that don't work in certain places and roads and a small school, and eventually we'll create an environment for the whole of Serbia to live, that we don't have holes, or pockets where there are no residents. The goal is to live all the way down from the border to Macedonia, up to Hungary as we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39771	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39772	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which should have added Article 2 which should have been read – that local self-government authorities are performing original and trusted tasks of interest to local self-government in accordance with the law. I understand the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however, what was the motive? When it comes to the original affairs of local self-government, it is simply precisely defined by both the Constitution and the laws, but I wanted to place the accent, and perhaps through the law, we should put an accent on trusted jobs, on matters that local self-government is carrying out as entrusted by the Serbian state, or we are talking about those projects financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, I think you have a need and through your work it has proved that you are paying particular attention to smaller municipalities and those rural areas, and that you are somewhere primarily against Serbia's metropolision, and in this sense it might be important to put into the law an emphasis on trusted jobs, first because of the infrastructure projects financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and which, as a result, contributes to the quality of life in smaller environments, in order to stop this migration that goes from less developed municipalities to large cities. I certainly understand your explanation for which the amendment has not been accepted, but I do not think it is burning to say that this government takes great care of all the municipalities in Serbia's territory and we simply do not have a habit and has not shown that it deals with exclusively developed municipalities to pick up what the glegon people say – the kajamak, but the efforts made to make them equal. I assume that fellow SPS colleagues who have also submitted amendments with the best intention of contributing to the quality of this, are indisputable, good law, ministers, and more about local self-government and the position of people who currently manage certain municipalities and central Serbian territory as well as northern Serbian provinces in certain municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39773	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Marjana Marash submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39774	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted several amendments, and one of them is an amendment to Article 1 adding Article 2. – Local self-government authorities are obliged to provide conditions for the economic and social development of the local community in accordance with the legal powers available to the budget, the amendment was rejected with the government's explanation not to contribute to the accuracy of the promotion. I can accept that this amendment with that reason has been rejected, but I would ask you, Minister, that during the debate one more time, since I don't know if we'll have enough time for the other amendments, think about one amendment, which defines the shortest time to call elections in the local communities. It is foreseen and that is what is good in this law, the areas that are related to local communities, which were so far not, when temporary measures can be introduced in local communities, are 15 days required by the President of the Assembly to hold new elections from the disbanding of the Council of Local Communities, but not to hold these elections for more than 45 days. I think from experience, from practical, from the field, that it was necessary in law to provide for that minimum time limit for the vote to be called, just in connection with the legal provision in this law that defines when the session can be scheduled by emergency procedure and that the deadline cannot be less than 24 hours, so that the committees can prepare and attend the session itself, it must explain the urgency of the session and explain the consequences that would occur in the event of non-announcement of the session. What is certainly good, Minister, which is an experience from the field, is that citizens will give their opinion on the investment this time when the proposal for a budget for 2019 is adopted, through a public debate. To find something in a public debate, 100 signatures are enough. Also, what is good, what you are proposing and what is some experience from the parliament of the Republic, that on the internet presentation or in another appropriate way the proposals for acts will be presented, so that public debates can also be organised by the general working bodies, councils and commissions. Of course, I also want to commend that it is regulated and related to co-operation, mutual co-operation and the formation of joint ventures. We have such a company in the Vrbas municipality. This is a joint venture called "Presect" Vrbas and Towers and these legal provisions provided for in this law certainly contributes and solves the problems we had on the ground. Something else I want to point out, which is about determining additional rights and duties when it comes to members of the municipal council. They will now and in particular have an obligation to monitor and coordinate work, report on the work of public enterprises, submit reports every three months to the Assembly. By adopting the Law on Public Enterprises, a vacuum took place and were defined differently from local self-government to local self-government, whether public companies' reports should go to the assembly sessions. So, during this period, until you had foreseen these new legal solutions, they attended municipal council meetings in some local self-governments both once a year and at the Assembly sessions, while in others, the committees had no opportunity to discuss material and public enterprise reports, only business programmes. What is more important, which is specified, whose responsibility is that when it comes to the preparation of the committee for the meetings of the Assembly, they receive the requested information, answers and documents so that they are now personalised that it is the Secretary of the So, the head of the municipality, the municipal administration, that they are obliged to provide the necessary information to the committees, which they need for successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39775	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39776	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Self-Government to Article 1 and it concerns that local self-government in the conduct of public-interest affairs takes care of the even development of all parts of the local community. I would just like to remind myself that the tasks of local self-government have a great breadth, and they are defined by law, and they include a very large number of areas, meaning, the adoption and realization of development programmes in key areas of our lives from economy, through employment, agriculture, tourism, sports culture, social protection, to the environment, the adoption of urban plans, spatial arrangements, financing, road infrastructure, establishment of institutions, etc. Indeed, a broad part of the work. The work of local self-government depends on the life of the population in the local self-government. But also local self-governments are also responsible for protecting against natural and other disasters. Last week we had flooded some local self-governments, some of them with emergency situations, some of which went a little better, so I would take this opportunity to, I say, I was under the impression that we learned something from the 2014 flood, that, simply, nature reminds us that there is no joke with it and that, here, and now with minor consequences, somehow, the conclusion is that we need to solve the causes rather than the consequences. I understand the idea, the need and the desire of the Ministry of Local Self-Government to help those environments, but I think it's much more important to solve the causes than to end up treating the consequences. The problem is about local self-government, but also about the accompanying ministries and local self-government, I would also say to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Indeed, it is a continuous effort to solve abandoned problems. Certain shifts have been made, but most of the major infrastructure problems left to local self-government cannot be resolved without the participation of republican structures, i.e. all accompanying ministries. Maybe it's time I mentioned a big problem with anti-urban protection. It was seen that local self-governments couldn't handle it on their own. I hope this issue will be resolved at the republican level as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39777	Thank you, colleague Stojadinović. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39778	How did you, Minister Ruzic, feel this three- or four-hour debate, where you heard one hundred times that you submitted an excellent bill, but that the MP submitted an amendment to fix the law, but that he would vote for the law even though you did not adopt the amendment? How do you manage to do so as a former MP of the people? This bill, Minister Ruzic, was not to be filed. Under the existing law, you could do, or whatever is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, that is, citizens of each local self-government individually. You haven't changed anything by proposing this law to improve living conditions on the ground. What you should have done based on the practice so far, not on local communities, should have been abolished by law by the local community and introduced as an obligation of the local office, the local office as part of the municipalities and the local office that will work in the interest of the citizens. You have given local communities even more authority, minority and local communities can run the foreign policy of the state, and local communities, practice has shown, are the place of the most serious abuses, laundering what little local self-governments have, forming any NGOs that take money from municipal budgets through local communities and all living neatly in Serbia, Mr. Minister. Did you perhaps watch or have you been informed, say, that the other day in the municipality of Kursumli in a local community held a choice for the advice of local communities? People are gathered together, and this one says, "Who's in? Some people offer ID, they don't need ID, let's just count it, and the municipal rule says they have to vote in secret. So, what happened? After two or three days, they changed the rule of the municipality of Kursumli or the statute, I'm not sure what it is, compared it to what they illegally did two or three days ago. It's just one example of how these local communities are actually abused. Like, say, I was talking about a local community, I'm talking about Kursumlia again. We, you know, have a councilman in the municipality of Kursumli, the Star Ristic is called, a very active man, and then we have a lot of information from Kursumlia. He's saying all this over there. Then he often gets a lawsuit, so sometimes he has to pay the fine, sometimes that lawsuit doesn't get accepted. But it is not a problem, but it is a problem that I warned Minister Sarcevic that he is the director of Planinke Raicevic, who is the main boss in Kursumlia, and the president of the municipality is co-owner of "Planinka", they took the school, the school building, and that building of the school, the one that Raicevic wrote in the catastro in his name. He said the minister would check it out, but how then, so today. Meanwhile, Raicevic's wife signed a decision to grant herself a schoolyard at another school. In that yard, they'll build a tennis court, privately, of course. So, there's a lot going on in the field, because you have local cabadias on the ground, you have people who deserve to be presidents of the municipalities because they were the nicest in the campaigns, because they were giving the most money in campaigns. The worst in every municipality is in the management of your municipalities, and that's a fact, and this law certainly won't be able to change that. You haven't settled the referendum issue, and you should have. With the referendum, as it is now in the law, the referendum only legalises the will of the authorities in every situation, and there is no possibility of the opposition taking part in the referendum procedures. That is probably what you are preparing at the republican level for Kosovo and Metohija. That's very bad and it's contrary to the democratic principles you're standing up for, Mr. Minister. Of course, a lot of things in this bill are not good. It's not good that foreign policy is run by municipalities, not only is it not good, it's unconstitutional. Foreign policy is run by the government, and I can't run local self-government and the government can't transfer that part to anyone alive, it just can't. You've predicted here some possibilities, imagine, the formation of joint bodies and joint services of different municipalities. It's clear what you want to do with these, what already exists in some local self-government, and what has proved to be disastrously bad, and what has proved to be a source of crime, that several municipalities are making, for example, a local regional dump, and you are now moving on and nowhere has been done, and for several years it's been current. NAED urged the presidents of the municipalities, Ana Brnabic, before she was a minister, and wherever the Prime Minister was now, she was personally visiting with NAED municipalities, forcing them to take unfavourable loans, they were doing so, and now you have almost all the indivisible municipalities, barely putting an end to the end, they don't have any salaries. So nothing works in local self-government. With this bill, when it's law, it can only be worse, nothing will absolutely be better, Mr. Minister. Let's not forget, as of Friday, it's Monday, we still haven't seen Meho Omerovic resign as MP. We've seen in the media that his party is sitting on the subject. They say they won't stick their heads in the sand. We invite them to take their heads out of the sand and see how the party and in this parliament will answer Meho Omerovic for stealing at Frankfurt Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39779	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39780	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Radeta, thank you too for this creative and lucid amendment. As far as the referendum is concerned, the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is a special law, and this law simply does not treat the issue, and in the draft of this law it has already been done and we will do and prepare this regulation this year. As for the the thesis that local communities or municipalities lead foreign policy, it really does not stand, and I repeat, therefore, 70% of the comparison of our legislation with EU legislation applies to local self-government units and for this reason stands the provision in the law. As for that alleged abuse you mentioned in the Kursumli municipality, I really don't have any data, but when we check, I'll definitely give you a qualified answer. You said we gave too much authority to local communities. No, we just want to put order in place and introduce a system of functioning that corresponds to practice, because before, or so far, we have had a situation that the local communities were like a charm in heaven or on earth. Now this proposal practically introduces order. As for this example, which you stated was practically decided at the assembly, this earlier legal solution was possible. Now the authorities of the local community are really narrowed down and the municipalities are who will edit the work, and local communities will certainly be territories where priorities will be identified which will later be proposed through the budget at the municipality's very assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39781	Thank you. Comrade Radeta, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39782	Our creative and lucid amendment says that your proposed Article 2 is deleted because you have not creatively changed a member of the 11th basic law. In fact, there's nothing new in the amendments to this law compared to the existing article of 11 that you've changed. That's what I told you in the debate that you don't have any significant newspapers, but only some cosmetic changes, makeup, and there's no legal possibility of making a choice for local communities in the wild way that it was done in that local community in Kursumlia. I wasn't talking about the choir, but I was talking about this amazing case, the malts, the fights, the pushing, the bans of some people getting close to that space, so some of them were throwing away, counting them like this who suits them, etc. I've set a very specific example, Mr. Minister. If you don't know what this is about, you may not know it, then it was enough to say that you don't know, that you will find out, so you will answer as well as Sarčević - never, but in any case you can't explain to you that we don't know what we're talking about. We know perfectly what we're talking about and we're repeating, about these 5% citizens who can file an initiative with municipalities, which is why it is unclear why it is necessary that with 100 signatures, this initiative is confirmed in order to come to the agenda in the municipality. So, you need to get those details... It's best that you withdraw this bill and, if you want, make a new proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39783	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39784	Thank you, Chairman. For the sake of facts, I thank you too for this criticism, but Article 2 clearly speaks of the implementation of the mandatory public debate procedure when preparing the statutes, the budget in the part of the planning of investments, and that is new and I would not say that cosmetic change. We'll see, of course, in the implementation of whether it's just a cosmetic change or it's essential. I would say that it is essential, that it introduces this participatoryness, the involvement of citizens through their initiatives. I don't recognize it's some kind of pulsism or cosmetic change right now. Of course, other general acts include the qualified number of citizens or the request of one-third of the board, etc. In this part, indeed, with the greatest will, I cannot agree with your findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39785	Thank you. My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39786	I didn't expect you to agree, but you didn't convince us that you had done something significant new. I'm just asking -- how do you mean in practice to conduct what you call a public debate in some municipalities? In many things, regardless of the existence of the law, in the capital, you do not distinguish Belgrade's two million from some municipality with 101,000 inhabitants. It's not exactly how you try to introduce us, but we repeat the essence is in poor functioning under this law, so it will be according to this law that you will adopt and by any law as long as the local kabadiahs are in charge of your municipalities. That's the main problem. What the ruling party is now trying to do is control the functioning of the president of the municipalities is a good move, and we don't say that they shouldn't do it. They've won the most votes, they've set their people up, they're responsible for them, and they need to control them. It's not controversial, but it's controversial that it's just one marketing action, because if it wasn't, then probably out of 160 city hall presidents should replace at least one 159. That's how they work and that's how they do it. Do you know how many abuses there are in the field? Do you know what these NGOs are doing? You now call them differently in this bill and it doesn't matter what they're called. These are some women with roses, women with flowers, with these, with those and those from municipal budgets, and organizations, and these are the first ones to be paid after each local election and they are given to local activists for the previous campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39787	Thank you. The People's MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour and continue our work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm just asking you to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39789	I thank the chairman. I would point out that we've already improved this law once, it seems to me in this conference, and whether citizens live better than that and if they've felt some changes in everyday life, they know it best. Whether in their local communities they can dispose of money and influence their direct environment and everyday life, they know best and feel the best. I suggest once again that the main problem is in the application of the existing law. They apply selectively and only in the part that seems to me that certain stakeholders literally impose. The laws are adopted quickly, by emergency procedure, by the bell and after that, by the citizens, by my knowledge and by what they tell me, they just live worse. What bothers me specifically in this article of the bill is that the statutes of the local community are adopted in accordance with the law, not the Constitution. It's logical that all the solutions will be in accordance with the laws, but if we bring them in so quickly and inconsistencies with the Constitution, then we're just making an even bigger difference. I can list you now a whole series of unconstitutional laws, but let's stick to this topic today. So, the Constitution can be violated not only by the legislators, but specifically by the Ombudsman himself and his older man, because, as a citizen of this country, the Republic of Serbia, by the will of the Citizens' Protector and one member of the national minority, the possibility that in my passport, which is issued by the state of Serbia, it is written that my citizenship is Serbian. So it is not enough that members of national minorities who do not want to do so are allowed not to read in their passport that citizenship is Serbian, but is being cut short by those who want to write to us. So, I really think it's about time, that this sensitive political moment also obliges us all to stick to the Constitution first and foremost, to protect, protect and defend, and defend this Constitution at all times. When it comes to commenting on whether local self-government is leading foreign policy, not water, we have a foreign minister who has already shown that he is experiencing foreign policy, displaying his vocal capabilities, but I think the highlight of his ability to conduct foreign policy is, however, the signing of the Brussels Agreement and will remain remembered. And I really don't understand how it is predicted that local self-governments are monitoring EU accession, that this is not foreign policy, and we all know here that Serbia will never become a member of the EU exclusively because of basic conditions, which is the signing of a legally binding agreement, which brings us back to breaking the Constitution. So, I will only once again remind all fellow Members of the People's Parliament, but also the executive authority that we are obliged to keep the Constitution together and that all legal solutions are in line first and foremost with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39790	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39791	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with Associates, Article 2. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government - in the amendment in Article 11(2), I have changed the order of words and it may seem illogical to you, but I will make an effort in these few minutes to explain to you why it should be so. Therefore, Article 2 speaks about the statutes of local self-government and what is determined by that statute and I understand, since I am also a committee member in the city of the Kingdom and local self-government, and I know how statutes are adopted and who brings them, which most of them and how they bring them, but in this Article 2 you end up with a sentence that says – the official use of language and letters of national minorities in accordance with the law and other issues of importance to the unit of local self-government. I asked you, Mr. Minister, last time, and no matter what I think you're very well-intentioned, that you like to answer, you didn't answer me what happened to the New Market Museum, which apparently abuses what the statutes allow? I showed you on the phone, it was a little bit, I'm showing you now, Mr. Minister, a mural made at a museum that is a protected institution where it writes – Bosnian I speak, I write and I think. You gave me great cream because you said this law was 70% in line with EU law. Mr. Minister, Croatia is a member of the EU. Imagine a museum in Vukovar where it will write – Serbian I speak, write and think of Cyrillic. Is that possible? Of course not. What is the solution in Novi Pazar according to that brochure, which I read carefully and where it says about the right 5% of people, and in Pazar we have 20% of Serbs, so on this museum above this – I speak, I write and I think it should write – Serbian I speak, I write and I mean the Cyrillic letter? It's by the Constitution. Why are we opening up, Mr. Minister, Pandora's box? What national law is not fulfilled by any national minority in this country? What we're introducing as a member of the Law on Local Self-Government, so of course most of those who are Muslim religions, well, of course they're going to pass the statute that answers them, well, of course they're going to predict in that statute, are they going to predict this? Is this normal, here, I'm asking you? I'm looking for an answer, of course, because I'm convinced that you can't give me the answer right now, and I'm going to send you and the Minister of Culture questions to the MP, and I'm going to ask them to answer those questions. Now, that's why I, Mr. Minister, in this amendment changed the order of words and instead of "organization and work", wrote "work and organization", because the organisation will not be able to control us because the statute will determine in a manner consistent with the majority population in those environments, but perhaps the work of those local self-government through some legal and constitutional norms will be able to control, and the work that can go in this direction is not good work. No one defends any member of that national minority to speak Bosnian, writes and think in Bosnian, but I ask you – where is the right of the majority in this country, where is the right of Serbs in Serbia? Will they be able to write below this mural - Serbian I speak, think and write on Cyrillic? Will I be able to have in my passport that my Serbian citizenship is? For two years, I fought a battle to keep my passport on Cyrillic and I probably have the only passport on Cyrillic here. Will I now have to seek my constitutional right to, for God's sake, have Serbian citizenship as a Serb in Serbia? We're opening up, Mr. Minister, in order to do good, I really don't doubt it, and neither of you, be careful where we are, we're talking about positive discrimination. Discrimination can never be positive, and we'll let things like this get out of hand. That's why I put up with this amendment, the way it is. Maybe, for sure, and it couldn't have been clear to you, it might have seemed to you that it was a fool, that I had changed the order of words, but, now, I've given you an explanation of why I changed the order of words, because I think that with such changes we might be able to influence at some point. (President: Time.) Just finish it, go ahead. ) So we may be able to influence, and I believe that this is the essential interest of the majority of the people of this country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your tolerance in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39792	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Nejko Jovanovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39793	I thank you, Chairman. The SPS parliamentary group stands at the view that this amendment should not be accepted, as it seems to me that the hypocrisis will not make much of a contribution to the quality of the law. Why am I saying this? Because the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia were now and before and always guaranteed by the Constitution. What is the guarantee of the Constitution means is that on the one hand guaranteed freedoms and rights of national minorities, so on the other hand what national minorities must respect when it comes to their country, which is the state of Serbia. I understand, Mr. Vesovic, what you're showing, but it's not proof of what you're imposing as a thesis in this House and what you're showing to citizens. Whether the majority in Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin or anywhere where the majority of the population is the population of national minorities will show what you are showing is something that involves the authority of other authorities, not the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. You've reached the wrong address because you need to tell someone else who's in charge of it, and the other person who's in charge of it will definitely have it in mind and believe that he has it in mind and believe that he's being followed. In addition, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has an administrative inspectorate. If the Statute of the Unit of Local Self-Government is incompatible with the law or, worse still, is incompatible with the Constitution, then the Administrative Inspector will take the appropriate measures prescribed within the limits of his jurisdiction under the law and, of course, that such act will either be suspended or will be subject to an assessment of constitutionality and legality before the Constitutional Court, and whoever initiates it will be competent to do so. Fortunately for us, we have mechanisms to stand up to it. Why there is no one in Croatia that you say should exist, which is freedom of expression of the Serbian population, is a question for a Croatian country that is obliged to respect standards, to respect the freedom and rights of citizens who are guaranteed by international documents, in accordance with the UN Charter. There is also a universal Charter of Rights and Freedoms of Men and Citizens, so it is a question for the authorities of the Croatian state, not for us. I think there's also a substitute for the thesis that doesn't make sense in this House. As far as the SPS is concerned, she is proud of the Brussels Agreement signed by the current foreign minister, and then Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, proud of his state capabilities that surely your colleague will never have, although imputed to him, will not be able to have, and I will not bring Ivica Dacic down to a vocabulary that was released at today's session of the Assembly, as your colleague often says, because Ivica Dacic does not deserve to be brought down to such a level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39794	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Right on line, Dr. Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39795	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I didn't have a personal exclusive relationship with Mr. Jovanovic and I didn't know that in many things he and I agree, I might be anxious to think that he got out of the need to defend Minister Ruzic, since he is from his political organisation. This is a fact found at the museum that is a monument to the culture of the Republic of Serbia, and no one is doing anything. I found it in the law that the statutes fit. Recognising that I do not have as much legal knowledge as my esteemed colleague Nejo, I may also be asking the wrong address, but I said that I consider the gentleman well-intentioned, the minister, and that he may be able to answer me and that what hurts me and a large number of Serbs working in that museum, Serbs working at the museum in Novi Pazar, who neither speak Bosnian, nor write, nor think. That's why I referred that question to that address. I have the right as a MP not to know who's in charge, but he also has the right to ask for the protection of constitutionality. Well, of course Croatia is obliged to apply the laws, but we are coming into a situation that is very interesting. Those who are members of the EU do not sign the laws, and they are members of that union, and we are not, I hope to God too, and we will never be members of the EU, we are not members and we want to be, as we say, greater Catholics than the Pope. It's another problem we have, and my discussion is neither ominous nor trendy, but a Serbian discussion that wants its rights to be respected by the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39796	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Maria Janjušević, on what basis? (Maria Janjušević: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica. (Maria Janjušević: According to the Rules of Procedure. You have no right under the Rules of Procedure, you cannot abuse now. Dr. Vesovic as deputy head of the parliamentary club and someone whom Mr. Jovanovic addressed directly and misread, possibly, his exposure, he was right. I'd give you my word, but Dr. Vesovic took the opportunity. Neđa Jovanovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39797	I thank you, Chairman. I want, like all of us in the SPS parliamentary group, to believe that there is a good intention when this amendment is affirmed in the way it is affirmed, in order to protect the interests of the Serb people in the territory of the Raška area, but that protection of the Serb people in the territory of the Raška area is already provided, I said, under one, the Constitution, and two, all of what they do and in the way our respective state authorities and institutions do it. In that direction, I see nothing controversial, and as far as one is concerned, if we call it, excess or incident, then it would be good to initiate the appropriate procedure, file an appropriate application and resolve the issue, but not to be used for political purposes and thus be politically elemental. The Bosniak or Bosnian language is the language of the national minority, and it as a language of the national minority is defined by law as a way of expressing the national minority. Of course, within the limits of the law, and of course, not injure the rights of other peoples and peoples, primarily of the Serbian people, where the official language is the Serbian language and the official letter of Cyrillic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39798	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Minister Branko Ruzic wants a word. Here you go, Minister Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39799	So, the Bosnian language is in official use in the state of Serbia, the application regulated by law. We'll check anyway, what you mentioned here in the House on three occasions, so it doesn't turn out that we owe the answer, I think it's also affecting the matter that the Ministry of Culture is dealing with, it's a facade in the New Market Museum building. When I gather the information I will certainly give you the answer to that question. But I really think it's very important that we don't do what we do. the narcissisms of small differences. So, we'll see if any members of the law are broken this way, by writing something in Bosnian on the facade of a building, but in any case I accept the question. I am obliged, given that the state administration is working really hard, the Radeta People's MP asked a question about the school in Kursumlia, in the village of Spance, so I would take the opportunity to answer that question as well. In view of the fact that there is a ruling by the Court of Justice in Kursumlia in 1991, which terminates the agreement on the transfer of the property of the parcel or the school building between the elementary school "Miloje Zakic" from Kursumlija and the company "Planinka", that contract was concluded in 1986, so neither was Raičević at the time director nor was this claim that you made, which was delivered to you by the board of your political party. Just because you asked for an answer from me and Mr. Sarčević, I'm here today and here, we got a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39800	Thank you, Minister Rose. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39801	Just because something was, I don't know, how many years ago, doesn't mean it can't change. Now, just last year, there was a request to book the facility, and only last year was the booklet of that former school to this owner of "Planinke". What happened recently, perhaps a month ago, two days ago, refers to another school, where the wife of the owner of the "Mountain" signed her own decision to grant herself a school yard for the construction of private tennis courts. So, Minister Ruzic, we did not accuse you, but obliged you, as well as all the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that you are bound, not only that everything that happens, you say you inherited. Something you inherited, and it's not good, you're obliged to change, that's how you got the election, by promising that you'd be better, not you, but the ones you're with now, unlike the ones you've been with, that they'd do it faster, better, I don't know how else. So you can't hide, whatever it is in the state, and it's become a manners -- you know, we inherited it. Well, if you inherited, if you're unable to change, then you say, "Kiss and leave." You're obliged to trade for the better. You were obliged to return that school because that school has children who now go as students pedestrians to the neighboring village. And it doesn't matter at all how bad a contract has been made, you know, ministers, harmful contracts cancel out. Why didn't anyone do it? This was a harmful contract, it is now a problem for those children from that village who, I repeat, go as students on foot to another village.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39802	Thank you. Minister Branko Ruzic has his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39803	Thank you. It's simple, not to go far back in history, but it's a positive intensification, and whether it was a harmful contract, of course we can conclude, in 1986 there was a planned opening of the confection plant, right in this facility, and in 1991 the then director of the elementary school "Miloje Zakic", asked the facility to return to school, which was then done. So, we're not talking about something that's inherited, I'm just talking about something that you've put right, as a question and I've given you an answer. As far as this other problem is concerned, I really don't have any valid information for that, if I have it and I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39804	Thank you, Minister Rose. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Professor Chevarlich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39805	Thank you. The amendment I have submitted concerns Article 1 that it should be added to it and that it should read - in units of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I have the impression that the laws passed here do not apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as defined in the Constitution, I would like to make a mistake. That's one reason. The second, two days ago, or three days ago, when we started discussing this in principle, I approached the Secretary of Resort and asked him to try and find a solution to one burning question. Since 1971, in the Republic of Serbia, there have been urban settlements and other settlements. City settlements, according to the 2011 census, corrected by the 2016 data, have 167 on central Serbia and Vojvodina territory, or 3.55%. The rest of the settlements are 96.45% and have dominant rural settlements. We and the highest scientific institution in Serbia -- SANU -- have a village committee. At each presentation, any local self-government, and this is the Law on Local Self-Government, we have the names of the village, and the names of the village are not in the lists, nor in any other document of the Constitution. It is high time 96.45% of the settlements in the Republic of Serbia, got what they belong to, called, called the category of settlements that they really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39806	Thank you, Professor. The time has elapsed for your parliamentary group. He has the word Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39807	Thank you. Very briefly, the Law on Territorial Organization knows two terms, therefore, the term inhabited town and the Catastrian municipality. So there is no discrimination against the country or the city. The inhabited village can be the village, the inhabited town can be the city. So, there's no kind of discrimination in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39808	Thank you, Minister Rose. Professor Chevarlich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39809	I don't think you're right, Mr. Minister. There are inhabited places, which are divided into city and rest, and I stand by it. I beg you, show me the document in this country, where it's otherwise regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39810	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. On Article 2 of the amendment, the People's MP Dr. Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39811	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, today we are talking about the draft law on additions and amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Namely, the amendment I have submitted first of all speaks about local self - administrations, i.e. it speaks of progress or better financial organisation of local self-government. However, the progress of local self-government is closely linked to infrastructure, which is most often, especially in border areas, very poor. In my address, I will first of all look back at the infrastructure that is characteristic of the Toplička district, so for southern Serbia, and I will mention a very important fact. Namely, from the moment Nis-Medara highway was built in an announcement, from the moment it was announced, more investors came to the municipality of Prokuplje to be interested in potential locations for the construction of certain industrial facilities. Why does this matter? Because every company, every company that wants to invest, primarily insists on infrastructure, insists on connecting with large cities, and thus any local self-government that has a very well-developed infrastructure, has the advantage of bringing them in, therefore. The very announcement of the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic, that this year the highway will start with construction and that this year will practically take place that first section from Nis to Pločnik, 40 kilometers long, has caused practical enthusiasm for the citizens, because back in the year, I would say even a few years since this idea was mentioned as relevant, I have listened to many exhibitions condemning the construction of the highway, but without any argument. The alternative, therefore, are the goat trails. Such an alternative can never be an alternative. What's significant is that the information given by the Ministry of Construction, which is that it's moving with the construction of the highway, practically already in the course of this year, is being expropriated, and in the following year it's moving with construction and road infrastructure, I said in which section, so to Pločnik. I think it's something that deserves every attention and absolute support and the Ministry of Local Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39812	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Aleksandar Seselj and MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39813	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. The biggest problem of all local self-government is the way they finance it. The particular problem is that since 2012, it has been working to reduce the resources committed to local self-government, which go from state level. In 2012, the percentage of the funds allocated to local self-government amounted to around 18%, so that the percentage would fall to 11% in 2017. With this reduction of funds financed by the local self-government, the government of the Republic of Serbia wants and aims to keep each local self-government in financial dependence. That would not be a problem if there were no corruption in the country itself and if ministers had no discretion in the way of spending state money. This means that local self-governments owned by the mayor or the president of a municipality whose party is in power and in the state can count on certain funds and state aid, while those local self-governments elected by mayors and the president of the municipality from other political options are in disquietment, so the citizens suffer because the state is not investing in such municipalities and cities. No new jobs, no investments, nothing like that. We have an example that the state treats some local self-government very wastefully and transfers huge funds to their accounts from the common register of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They also got money for liquid liquidity. Such an example is Zaječar, where 480 million dinars were transferred in 2017, almost half of the budget of a smaller municipality than 37,000 inhabitants, which is Prepolje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39814	Thank you very much, Mr. Despotovic. The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39815	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ministry associates, first of all I want to take advantage of this opportunity because I did not have the opportunity to speak in principle, unfortunately my fellow Members from my parliamentary group have spent their time, and I want to congratulate you on the very quality and good proposals of the law, and I would especially like to point out that one of the laws on the agenda is also the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by my distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament and I believe that in the future we will have more opportunities to submit and discuss submitted drafts of the law. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, I have submitted several amendments. One of them is also on Article 2 which amends the applicable Article 11(2). We have suggested that after the words – the statutes are determined in particular, they add words – headquarters and address of local self-government. This wanted to specify both the name and address of the local self-government, i.e. the city or municipality. Your argument is that you do not accept the amendment because it does not contribute to the promotion or precision of the text of the bill. I can accept that this supplement is not essential, but you will agree that in the Statute that normally regulates all issues, when it comes to organisations and work and jurisdiction and should also contain data on the seat. So think again about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39816	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has been pointing to the fight against corruption and crime in the locals for years. I would only point out to the current government that in 2011, the current DS regime, at the level of Vojvodina, made a decision to deposit 30% of the budget of all public enterprises and local self-government in a deposit with the Vojvodine Development Bank. Thus, the mayor of Pancheva, i.e. the city's administration, paid the Gyro-account of the Vojvodine Development Bank in a deposit of 618 million dinars. Now he's paid about two billion dinars. Where did the money end up? Where are those criminals today? Where are these taxpayers' funds? Is that what they're worried about? Obviously, it wasn't taken care of at the time. How can two ladies, one from Užica, be brought to Panchev, one from Cačka, and be the director of a pharmacy in Pancheva and cause a robbery of 800 million dinars without any of them going to jail? How is it possible that local self-government is not involved in these problems and it is possible that two and a half thousand hectares of land on Zlatibor, PKK Zlatibor, are sold for 66 million dinars and that local self-government has no role to play and to prevent that robbery? What did the ministers do, what did the agencies do, and why didn't they end up in jail if it was in the light that today in Zlatibor, an ar of land costs 12,000 eras? Well, figure out how much damage the state has done in this way. Gentlemen, Ministers, so I'm asking a question about local self-government, but also the work of the government and the ministry. Given the current damage caused by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia due to the negligence and irresponsibility of state authorities, including local self-government, I ask the government – how many are registered in the Republic of Serbia today and there are anti-building stations? How many anti-urban shooters are there? How many anti-building missiles have been provided in Serbia for 2018? How many anti-urban missiles are scheduled for each anti-urban station? How much are anti-urban missiles for 2018 and what is the damage? The damage will be estimated at hundreds of millions and I see that much is not taken into account by farmers and peasants, which the SRS has been warning for years, about the problems and rights of our citizens must be provided by the government and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39818	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Did the People's MP Momcilo Mandic submit to the 2nd Amendment? Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39819	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, I would like to amend Article 11(2) of the basic law. Otherwise, Article 11(2) of the basic law refers to the statutes, as the highest legal act of the units of local self-government. The amendments and additions now define that the statutes also regulate some new questions about local self-government. In particular, it is a matter of determining the authority authorised to initiate proceedings before a constitutional or administrative court, the conditions for the exercise of forms of direct self-government, the implementation of a mandatory public debate procedure when preparing the statutes of the budget in the part of the planning of investments, strategic development plans, the determination of the original income rate, spatial and urban plans, as well as other general acts, on the official use of language and letters of national minorities, in accordance with the law and on other matters of importance for the local self-government unit. We of the SRS have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and we believe that the solution we have proposed is more appropriate. If this amendment were to be accepted, the text of the law would be better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39820	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39821	What the SRS insists is that the provisions of laws which are not subject to these amendments are implemented until the end, and that is, above all, in the Law on Local Self-Government, it clearly states that the local elections take place directly and freely. We are witnessing that there is no such freedom of choice long ago. This, unfortunately, began in 2000, i.e. more specifically after 2004, when the rest of the DOS that was viewed in the DS invented a means to get votes and citizens' trust as soon as possible. They started buying votes and it obviously became a habit, it became a conditionality, and tradition. The Serbian Radical Party insists that acts that are at the level of local self-government are respected, and that primarily implies the statute. The statute exists when it comes to the local self-government unit and the local community. Here you have a clear proposal from the ministry that if the local community has a statute that is against the law or that is contrary to the statutes of local self-government, it can challenge it in the Constitutional Court, the assembly of the municipality or the city can challenge it in the Constitutional Court and it is given a deadline. Now look what that illogicality is. So, the local community, especially if the opposite political composition or thinking is better said than local self-government, can deliberately adopt the statute of the local community that is contrary to the law. If, by any chance, for a number of reasons, local self-government is not responding within this period, this illegal statute will be applied, it will be in force, which has absolutely nothing to do with sound logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39822	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Dinic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Dinic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39823	Dear President, honourable ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in Details. I have also submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which adds the words: "the authorities in accordance with the law. “ Although the Law on Local Self - Government, the Law on Local Elections established the authorities of the local self - government, the way they were elected, I believe that it is good to state these bodies in the statutes, so that the highest legal act would contain that information. I would like to commend the minister and his team for one such bill that is comprehensive, complex and finally complementary. This bill, what is most important, ensures that local communities return at least part of the influence they had, and what is very important to our citizens is that they decide more directly and that cooperation between municipalities is governed by one regulation, which is done by this bill. After successfully implemented fiscal consolidation and rationalisation, the main focus was on changes in competence, reform of the functioning of local communities, as well as on inter-municipal co-operation. The relationship between the local community and the municipality is foreseen to be further regulated. The municipality will organise a public debate on planned investments when budgeting, and the citizens' proposal will only be taken into account if it is signed by at least 5% of voters. Also, what is very important and what interests our citizens and citizens is the suggestion that the number of local officials will depend on the number of residents. What I want to praise, Minister, and as a woman, is that with this proposal, we now finally have a legal basis for all municipalities to be involved in the realisation of the Birth Encouragement Strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39824	Thank you, colleague Dinic. Nejko Jovanovic has a word for the amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39825	Thanks, buddy. I consider it my obligation to support the amendment proposed by our friend Ivana Dinić because it is meaningful and because, in any case, it could contribute to improving the quality of the law, which undoubtedly justifies all that a legal proposal should have, which is that in its practical application, almost all the misunderstandings have been removed and that it will give its full potential in its practical application. What I would ask to point out, particularly because of the citizens, honourable ministers, I hope that in this way I will not harm the Rules of Procedure, because this amendment is proportionate to this amendment, to point out one fact that the SPS parliamentary group has just proposed an amendment that I hope you have accepted, which is an amendment relating to the education of the councils of the local communities at the level of the city of Belgrade. Given the fact that the city of Belgrade has its specifics and that it is normised, or systematised as legally, according to the law that has the category of leks specialis, it is the Law on the City of Belgrade, and is also normized in the Constitution as the capital of the Republic of Serbia, then it is quite logical that these two legal acts, namely one constitutional character, are the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the other Law on the city of Belgrade, define issues of establishing and forming a council of local communities. The amendment, in any case, contributes to the fact that a law that is very good is in a comprehensive sense what involves the coverage of everything that is not covered, and the city of Belgrade really deserves to have one such status, i.e. that the local communities at Belgrade's level are established in accordance with the Law on the City of Belgrade. We also believe that all skeptics, all doubts about the character and structure of the local communities are unnecessary because for the first time the control of the work of the local communities is defined, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it defines what has not been put under control so far, which is that at the level of the local communities volunteering appears, that even some kind of anarchy appears and that local communities lead to their own senselessness. This kind of control, the work of local communities, both their normatives and in the technical sense of their work really achieves something that has not been done so far, which is that local communities can exist as an institutional part of local self-government, but only under the control of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39826	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Dr Danica Bukvic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Danica Bukvić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39827	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We propose that the statute of local self-government also establish a date marked on the day of the municipality, i.e. a holiday significant for the establishment of a municipality or some historic event. These dates are important for local communities and their inhabitants. I would take this opportunity to comment and part of the law relating to the work of local communities. This law clearly regulates the position of local communities and their relationship with the municipality. It is foreseen that for education, i.e. the abolition of the local community, the proposal can be submitted by at least 10% of voters with residence in the area concerned, at least one third of the board members and the municipal or city council members. The Act establishing a local community sets out the tasks of the local community, which are therefore the main representative bodies in the area of local self-government. Elections for the Council of the Local Community shall be held under the rules of direct and secret voting on the basis of general and equal rights, electoral law in accordance with the instrument of establishment. The election for the Council of the Local Community shall be called by the President of the Assembly, or the City, and the President of the Council of the Meat Community shall elect the Council from his own and by a secret vote, most of the total number of members of the Council of the Meat Community. The local community shall adopt a financial plan on which consent is given by the competent authority of the Assembly of the Municipality, or the City, which must comply with the budget of the Assembly, or the City. The decision to disband the Council of the Meat Community shall be taken by the Assembly of the Municipalities, or the City, on a proposal from the competent authority to supervise the work of the local community. Until the entry into force of the Constitution of the Council of the Meat Community, the Commissioner appointed by the Assembly of the Municipalities or the City shall carry out his current affairs. These are all things that regulate the work of local communities so that the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day, i.e. supplementing this bill and voting for this and other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39828	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dr. Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39829	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to the amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government in Article 2. The draft law amending Article 11(2) of the applicable law in paragraph 2, which is amended after words – the organisation and work of bodies and services, the words are added – sources of funding of local self-government in accordance with the Law. My argument is that I believe that the statute should contain both the forms and sources of funding of local self-government provided for by a law governing the financing of local self-government. These legal solutions in this law will enable better mutual co-operation and improve the mechanisms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, as well as ensure public participation in the application of draft laws and other rules of the state administration body. These amendments and additions to the existing Law on Local Self-Government will allow for better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy and for citizens to become more involved in making decisions that are important to their communities. These legislative changes have proposed mandatory citizens' consultation on the creation of local self-government budgets in the area of investment, some municipalities and cities in Serbia are already doing so, but it is intended to become the obligation of all local self-government. It will be improved and improved and the functioning of local communities and their relationship with local self-government units, but that the change will also be in the way of showing the competences and units of local self-government, the work of the local Assembly of Municipal Councils and municipal administrations. The aim is to improve the process of consultation of the interested public at the earliest stages of the preparation of the rules, to ensure that, in addition to the already mandatory procedure and public debate, the public is informed and involved in the work already at the earliest stage of the draft law. This draft law provides for the extension of the round of issues which are governed by the statutes as the highest legal act of the units of local self-government, in particular the rights and duties of units of local self-government and how they are implemented, the number of representatives of the Assembly Unit of local self-government, organisations and the work of services, the designation of the body authorised to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, or before the Administrative Court and other issues of importance to local self-government. It also proposed that the local self-government unit be monitored and participated in the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the law and foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. The relevant amendment of the proposed law also refers to the approach, i.e. the concept of determining the authority of the municipality of the city, so that no longer lists the tasks that the municipality and the city performs in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but also lists areas in which the municipality has jurisdiction under basic, specific sectoral laws, including those laid down in the statutes, and provides for a single register of jurisdiction of municipalities which will be established by the Ministry of Local Self-Government within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. It is significant, i.e. the Minister is scheduled to adopt a competent act within a specified period. The law provides that the Board shall have the right to be regularly informed on matters of importance for the performance of the Board's duties and that it shall obtain from the Office's authority the information it needs to work. An amendment to the applicable law which prevents the abuse of the authority of the President of the Assembly to schedule a session within an inappropriate period that prevents the preparation and presence of committee members. Also a number of other changes to the promotions that I am not going to make now, and we will vote on this bill and support the work in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39830	National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39831	Thank you. Since it is a very short time to present amendments and some suggestions, just to ask the minister if he really believes that something with these amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government has done better for citizens in the Republic of Serbia, that is, in local self-government. I know very well that it isn't. Why? Because this is one billing thing and something that has yet to follow, and you know when? It's only when we become truly one democratic, creative society and really, really, that citizens might be asking themselves something. For now, the way things are, as is the real situation in local self-government, is that citizens are absolutely not asking anything, to ask the mayor only. You know it well because you've been in politics for many years and you know how to make coalitions at a local level. So, you ask the mayor only, then you ask the city's bigger, and the city's bigger you know that from coalition partners it's made up and they're wondering if it means the president of the local communities, like their activists. As far as citizens are concerned, they're only asking if they should pay, they're not really asking if they should pay, they're only taking property taxes, they're taking taxes, the executioners are going to the door, they've got to pay everything, they've got bills coming in, they've got nowhere to pay. Their fundamental constitutional right has been taken away in this country, which is the right to work, and what exactly are you doing with this country and what are you actually doing with this country, and what are you actually doing with this law that is up to you to respond to the citizens of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39832	I apologize to everyone. It's about the session. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Miletic Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39833	Dear Ministers and Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2, in Section 2. He was rejected, frankly, and I agree that this is not essential, which could change the content and meaning of what is regulated by this article. There are always angles, i.e. visions that seem to improve the text, but in any case, what the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government and not only that, but all the other draft laws in this set that we are considering are important progress in legislative regulation and a major step in that direction of improving legislation, and therefore you deserve to be praised in any case. It is also positive that during the controversy and discussion here in the National Assembly, you yourself said that perhaps in the next step you can come and there will certainly be improvements in some provisions, and practice will show where it is needed. It is such a real state. It should be malicious, and then criticise a certain law and all the solutions in it, but it is already a matter of the political position of the MPs who bring it up. I would, of course, commend what the provisions defining the position and role of the local community and in that part of us have a way of education, to abolish local communities, to regulate that 10% of voters can propose this by one-third of the council and the municipal council, and in the following attitude it is said that the municipal assembly, or the city's assembly, decides, with the citizens' opinion on education, the area of the local community, the change of the area and the abolition of the local community. So the question is, how does that happen with the citizens' opinion? Is that the view of those 10% who propose or should express that opinion in another way, which is not defined in this article to the end? That is why we believe that this should be a direct statement in the referendum, because the flat-rate opinion of citizens who can be taken allows possible subjectivity of local authorities and to abolish, for example, the local community tends to do so, etc. Of course, this is a topic to take care of and if it is not defined to the end. Now, when this law is passed, you need to think about the next step, next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39834	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39835	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, in Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government has provided for everything and which matter should cover the statute as the highest legal act of local self-government. Now this is a significantly wider circle of issues now being resolved by the Statute compared to the existing Law on Local Self-Government and, among other things, it states here that the statute should be determined by an authority that will be competent to represent local self-government before the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court. The DSS MPs here have submitted an amendment to delete this provision, because first we have a dilemma that is an organ that should represent local self-government in front of these courts. Whether these are defined bodies of local self-government under the Law on Local Self-Government, where the assembly, municipal administration, the municipal council, the president of the municipality or that can be regulated instead of the statutes of the Assembly's decision on a process that would be conducted or a court case conducted both before the Constitutional Court and before the Administrative Court. That's why we've submitted this amendment to delete these specifics. Let me briefly refer to this bill of yours, which is very commendable here in principle. They are mostly good legal provisions and I, as an opposition MP, join that the bill is quite good, especially in that part that regulates the status of local communities now, which has always been kind of disputable, which also well regulates co-operation, mutual co-operation, but therefore I ask you – did you well determine how we are going to deal now, because you only mentioned the shift or whatever, recalls the president of the municipality and vice president of the municipality. I was hoping that there would be a little more precise changes and additions to the law, because the fact is and we are witnessing that today mostly the presidents of the ruling coalition are normally, but in many municipalities, the presidents of the municipalities treat employees as employees of their private company, and according to municipal budgets, as they do their own pocket. Unfortunately, there are also positive examples, but we are witnesses, they write back and forth for many weeks, and the government is silent about what individual presidents of the municipalities are and that they are mainly in some municipalities the masters of life and death. Nothing can happen until the president of the municipality asks. So these changes and additions around the president of the municipality's shift had to be a little more demanding, especially for what's going on in Serbia, especially for abuses, and especially for the fact that the media is increasingly mentioning that we have people with a very suspicious, even more so, criminal past in our place as the president of the municipalities or mayor. That's why I expected it, and I've actually got the biggest criticism in terms of members 49 and 51. It seems to me that we could have gotten a little deeper into the changes and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39836	Thank you, colleague Gajic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39837	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the conditions imposed upon us, in a state of obstruction where, in the discussion of details, we can only talk to a few members of one law, better say a legislative proposal, we SRS MPs, we seek to make every serious and dedicated point of all the shortcomings of the proposed amendments. A good part of the changes and additions you suggest fall into the order of organizational groomings. For example, what was previously placed in the jurisdiction of the statutes is now entrusted to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Authority. Inadmissible oversights have been made under the previous law. This was done without sufficient knowledge of the hierarchy of regulations, because we will agree that the Rules of Procedure and the Statute are not acts of the same order and importance. You have also given these amendments and additions the possibility of a permanent working relationship because of the choice of a municipal body, which will be gladly accepted in municipalities, as the number of people on the payroll will be increased, but the possibility for deputy assembly presidents and assistants is unnecessary. Why? Because that function can be performed by some of the members of the municipal or city council. Lack of money for everything that citizens need is also a condition and a lack of enthusiasm for the initiative, so all in all, the proposed solutions will remain halfway because they are more fruit of a desire than of a real state, i.e. to look at the possibilities of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39838	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. The People's MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Vesna Ivkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39839	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members, in Article 2. The draft law, in the current Article 11 in the second paragraph of the amendment, states: "a way of managing citizens in the responsibility of the unit of local self-government" is replaced by the words "a way of direct or direct management of citizens of the affairs of the unit of local self-government by citizens". The amendment proposes a different formulation of the part of the provision of Article 2 by stating that it is a matter of indirect or direct management of citizens in local self-government dealings which are legally established as original or entrusted to local self-government. This Member of the Bills, the Statutes shall regulate both the rights and duties of the unit of local self-government and the manner of implementation, the number of committees, the work of the services, the call for meetings, the number of members of the council and the other, and the way in which citizens manage the tasks of local self-government, the conditions for achieving the forms of direct self-government, the implementation of the mandatory public hearing procedure when preparing the statutes, the budgets of local self-government, the strategic development plans, and other relevant to the functioning of local self-government. With these solutions of the amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government, we get one more efficient and reformed local self-government, and the aim is for all citizens in all segments of society to be satisfied with the exercise of rights and obligations, as well as public officials, the bearers of all these changes. Finally, this bill, as well as the other laws of this set, offered quality solutions, which is proof that this business, as regards the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, has worked long, responsibly and transparently through public debates, and everything in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I propose the adoption of this law because it has offered quality solutions, as well as that Serbia puts these and other laws on the agenda in order for democratically developed European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39840	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39841	Mr. Minister, we have tried this amendment to draw your attention to the fact that this law cannot properly regulate the forms of a direct declaration of citizens, in fact, formally, but essentially not. You as a graduate politician and as someone 20 and over in politics, you know that for the past 28 years, since it has been a multi-party in Serbia, citizens have been unable to fully exercise their right. I have the impression that we're going back to zero, at some point, because local cabadias, local sheriffs in local self-government units, the way members of the community council are elected, where it's done in public assemblies, with the payment of maybe beer in front of a local bar or making some packages, is certainly not the way in which citizens can, in addition to directly elected council members, decide on their rights. You now imagine the situation that in a Greek, say, someone decides to change the network of schools in one municipality and not to ask citizens at all, but to gather from ruling coalitions and parties and say – now it will be so, or decide to change the name of the street, so the name of the mafia prime minister, the former, murdered Djindjic, is being changed in cities and in boulevards that have been named again by some people who have earned through history. Not to mention that absolutely citizens are not asked anything when it comes to regulating their municipal infrastructure, but today they are also tripping about various cables and unfinished business of local public enterprises. So, from direct decision-making and their participation, there is nothing, nor is there a referendum to be called. I would like my colleague Marinkovic, as he continues to chair, and I see that with the solemn vote he calls us all for amendments, and that is nice, and he refers to us and those who have certain titles, I believe that he was also in that sense, until the end of this session from the chairman's seat, informing us that Meho Omerovic, a petty thief from Frankfurt Airport, has resigned as a member of the National MP, or if you have not yet succeeded in doing so, that you have at least replaced him from the post of Chairman of the Committee for Human and Minority Rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39842	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP, Dr Daniela Stojadinovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Daniela Stojadinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39843	I thank you, Chairman. I've submitted another amendment this time to Article 2. The draft law amending Article 11(2) of the applicable law, which proposes to specify the part of the provision of this article relating to the direct participation of citizens in making important decisions which have been found by law and general act to call a referendum or to launch a national initiative. Through the citizens' initiative, citizens will point out to the local self-government assembly that there is some issue that has not been adequately done or that requires the local administration to address it. In particular, it refers to the setting up of local communities. Although these types of direct participation of citizens in solving problems and local decision-making are made possible by law, it is nevertheless the fact that they are rarely applied or that citizens do not know about it. Citizens do not recognize enough these opportunities for participation and are not convinced that their initiatives will deliver results. Such a bill provides the possibility of including and solving problems at the local level of these citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39844	Thank you. The People's MP, Marjana Marash, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39845	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment - in Article 2. The proposal is amended and read as follows: "implementation of the mandatory public debate procedure" is replaced by the words: "obligations and how to conduct the public debate procedure". I'd say it again if it was certainly commendable. What has been present in certain municipalities, that citizens are pleading on where budget funds will be used, investment will now become a commitment for all local self-governments, and that is, when the draft budget is drawn up for the next year 2019. The same applies to the development of strategic plans, the adjustment of original income rates, spatial urban plans, as well as other general acts on the basis of a proposal for a qualified number of citizens, the number of citizens is out of 100 signed. I would repeat once again, what is important is that both the Council and the Commission can hold public debates in preparation for acts that attend the meetings of local parliaments. The amendment has been formulated in the parliamentary group in order to highlight the obligations and ways of implementing the public debate procedure, and I can say that recently something similar has been carried out in the Vrbas municipality. The funds they received from the prize game "Take the Account and Win", 23,000 euros were at stake and citizens had the opportunity to plead out in all local communities, between three projects to choose who they consider to be the best and that funds should be used. They were able to vote in local communities from seven to 19.00 hours each working day and in the Youth Office. I suppose, in the sublegal acts and recommendations, the ministry will also receive special instructions on how we will conduct this public debate, that those objections we could hear will not be justified, but will be carried out in public debate when making a budget in the investment work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39846	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Local Self-Government refers to three groups of subjects. I'll take that order out here now. It's the state administration. Of course, this is where you regulate what and how far state administration can go and you've told her in some of these changes. Then it refers to local self-government, and I would say that the most important group of people to whom this law applies are citizens of Serbia as direct holders of sovereignty. I expected there to be more words here about what Serbian citizens would get with these amendments and amendments to the law. But absolutely they don't get anything. Mr Minister, you have more focused on what would be the EU's response to these changes. Some research has also told us where Serbia is on that path to the EU. So we need to get out of there as soon as possible. I'm worried about one other thing. We will probably have a lot of black-traveisation in the next period, and this means that an increasing number of municipalities in Serbia will share the fate of Black Grass. That's what a fellow SNS MP was talking about. If someone from the SRS said that, you'd say they're saying something that's not happening in Serbia. But you have to believe, that's all. Here you have tried some parameters that are related to a certain number of inhabitants. When it comes to the municipal council, when it comes to the number of municipal assistants, it is not always possible, some other corrective factors had to be installed there. Let me give you an example. The town of Pančevo has 123,414 residents, according to the last census of 2011, has 16 local communities. The municipality of Ljubovija, from which I come, has 14,424 inhabitants and 22 local communities. No one chose, and they'd be happy and happy to have fewer, but here we're talking about something else, or we have another picture, we have about the terrain being a little different. So also here, what you have done, besides the number of judges in Serbia, cannot be tied to the number of judges in some EU countries. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you have noticed here which local self-government should pay more attention in the coming period, to help them. Here there are a number of cities where it blooms. Six billion surpluses isn't something I'd brag about, it's not so bad, but it suggests it's some kind of incompetence. What's with the budget? Is he even balanced? Is it well planned or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39848	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on local self-government. Now that we look at this law at first glance, we get the impression that a lot of things have been done, because this law has 40 members who are changing, and 42 members are, in particular, changing. But if you get a little bit into the essence of this, you can see right away that there are no fundamental changes here, or that only some trivial things have changed, and where there was something to change, to intervene, there was no intervention. What's changed in this law? The concept of determining the competence of local self-government units has been changed. It's one of the most important changes. It is now said, instead of listing local self-government units, that the areas that cover these tasks fall within the jurisdiction of local self-government units are given here. It doesn't have to be something bad in itself. However, if it continues to look into this law, it can be seen that the areas stemming from some sectoral laws are at stake. These sectoral laws are often known to be in collegiate, so there is little use for them. What else is foreseen by this law? The law particularly stresses the importance of citizens' participation in the public debate. I ask you, when did this happen and when was it that an ordinary citizen participated in a public debate? An ordinary citizen does not know when the public debate is, nor does he, in essence, take an interest in the public debate. Public debate is just a front for lobbyists who influence the adoption of certain laws, and citizens of course have nothing to do with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39850	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39851	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Local self-government is vital to the functioning of a single state and it is therefore extremely important for this matter to be looked at and treated properly. In order for the state to function, it is necessary to have continued communication between local self-government and senior authorities. The proposal to amend and supplement this law has some good side, but it does not prevent what is most important, and that is the full control of local self-government authorities. After the adoption of this law, there will be various local sheriffs who will be deaf about the obstacles of senior authorities, especially the obstacles to independent regulatory bodies. Gentlemen, you yourself have these days admitted that in your ranks there are such presidents of the municipalities and mayors. That is why, in some municipalities, such as Kladovo, Bruce and some other municipalities, you have proposed the resolution of the president of these municipalities that come from your ranks. It is also important that the government of the Republic of Serbia has equal treatment for all local self-government rather than favouring those local self-governments whose head is a member of its party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39852	Thank you. The People's MP, Josip Broz, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39853	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, the proposed amendment has tried to perhaps specify the text of the article to which the amendment applies, given that it is in full co-ordination with the other text of the law. In particular, when it comes to the establishment of local communities, on the same legal basis, the same legislation must also provide for a way, i.e. the process of abolishing local communities, i.e. change of any of their status in terms of organisation of the organisational structure or anything like that. That is why we felt that we could possibly contribute to this amendment to merely specify the proposed text of the article to which the amendment applies and, in this way, in practical terms of the words, this law is fully synchronised when it comes to all its provisions, therefore, all members who refer to each other or refer to each other. If you accept an amendment like this, I think that would contribute to what I'm talking about, and in any case, if there are better solutions, the SPS parliamentary group will support such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39854	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MP Zvonimir Stević. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39855	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, I have submitted the following amendment - in Article 2 which amends the applicable Article 11(2). The law, in paragraph 2, which is amended, following the words "and other forms of local self-government", add the words "a way to adopt and amend the statutes". As an explanation, I have stated that the statute should contain provisions on how and procedures to amend the statutes as the highest legal act of the unit of local self-government. The Statute regulates the rights and duties of units of local self-government, their implementation, the number of committees of the local self-government assembly, the organisation and work of bodies and services, the way citizens of the premises and the responsibilities of local self-government, the establishment and operation of local communities and other forms of local self-government, the conditions for the launch of civil initiative and other issues of importance for the local self-government unit. Jobs in the jurisdiction of local self-government are defined by law, and are closer governed by statutes and can be classified in several groups - the adoption and implementation of development programmes in key areas of our lives and activities such as economy, employment, tourism, agriculture, sports, culture, youth policy, social protection, ecology and others, then, the adoption of urbanist plans and spatial planning, financial affairs among which are the most important adoption of budgets and final accounts, the determination of the original income rates and the establishment of local fees and fees, as well as the management of local self-government property, housing and the use of public works, the organisation and implementation of municipal works, water supply, maintenance of urban cleanliness, maintenance of deposits, linear, urban, urban transport, organisation and use of markets, parks, recreation and other areas, the maintenance of infrastructures and the development of urban infrastructures, the construction of the business and the construction of the environment. In particular, care should be taken to protect against natural and other major disasters, and after the weather disasters that occurred these days across Serbia. Human rights and rights of members of national minorities and ethnic groups, the achievement, protection and improvement of human and minority rights. Determining the language and letters of national minorities who are in official use on the territory of municipalities. Help in developing different forms of self-help and solidarity with people with special needs, as well as with persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens and encourages activity and provides assistance to disabled organisations and other socio-humanitarian organisations in their territory. Organisation of services and legal assistance to citizens, public information of local importance, the provision of conditions for public information in Serbian, the language of national minorities used in the territory of the municipality, the establishment of TV and radio stations for reporting in the language of national minorities and at the end of the day, the education of inspection services, inspection supervision of the enforcement of regulations of other general acts from the jurisdiction of the municipality. And once again to praise the work of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the State of Self-Government, headed by Minister Branko Ruzic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39856	Thank you, colleague Stevic. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39857	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the bill is being amended to extend the circle of issues governed by the statutes and within this are also issues relating to national minorities. Unfortunately, we won't be able to put forward proposals for laws that directly concern the rights of national minorities, more specifically to speak, but through amendments we will try to point out the problems facing national minorities. Before I ask any specific questions, I must stress that at least it is irresponsible to deal with issues of protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities only because it is Serbia's obligation to negotiate with the EU. Serbia's most disciplined and most endangered national minority is certainly the Roma and Roma in Serbia living in deep misery and poverty mainly in informal settlements and in unconditional water and electricity-free facilities. It is known that in the Decade of Roma, which is extended and still going on, something has been done to improve the quality of life of the Roma, but it is still insufficient. The very important question is Roma education, because we know that they leave school very early and that there are a lot of illiterate among the Roma, so I would ask a few concrete questions, which is how many Roma children who enroll in elementary school and finish it? Then, how many of them are enrolled in high school, or how many of them continue schooling, and did you manage to stimulate and disrupt Roma children in any way to continue schooling because we know there were some projects when scholarships were distributed?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39858	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39859	I thank the Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the amendment to Article 2. The law on local self-government to further define this member as well as how all our cities and municipalities function. This article is dedicated to detailing the work of the Assembly, the work of the services and the work of the authorities of each local self-government. If we want to talk about a balanced regional development, or even development of all our districts, I think that this system should be reflected in the work of local self-government, i.e. that our local self-governments are open to citizens to listen to their needs and to make decisions with citizens on those projects that will be implemented in a given year. I believe that local self-governments should also be open to all kinds of round tables, public hearings in order to deploy budgets together with citizens in the best possible way, i.e. funds belonging to all citizens and municipalities or cities, and to spend their money transparently. We must no longer allow what has happened and in the work of different local communities in certain cities and municipalities. I would like to mention what was recorded in the municipality of Trstenik during 2014, which is that the DRI made its observation in terms of non-intentional spending of the local community’s funds, i.e. made a series of remarks concerning the spending of money. When it comes to the local community and the collection of self-supply, it is very important that self-supply is called upon to regulate and complete certain capital infrastructure projects that will benefit all citizens and make self-supplyses for certain purposes determined by the decision on self-scheduling. If this money is spent in any other way, this means that the will of citizens who have decided to spend the money for those purposes they have declared. It is very important that we spend these funds transparently and therefore welcome the initiative adopted by this law, which is to regulate the relationship between the local community and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39860	Thank you, colleague Turk. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39861	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, because of the importance of education, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which further defines the implementation of the statutes of the local self-government units with a special reference to the school system. The statute of local self-government in accordance with the law addresses all issues of importance for local self-government units. The strategic plans of the development of the municipalities of Stara Paz have provided favourable conditions for many businessmen and foreign investors, whose headquarters are located in the Municipality of Stara Paz and employ residents not only from Stara Paz, but also from the surrounding area. The cooperation of business councils and educational institutions introduces dual education for the education of the necessary professional profiles that have emerged as a need for the development of the economy. The Statute also laid down the official use of the language of national minorities. In the municipality of Stara Pazova is in official use and Slovak, which is significant for members of the Slovak national minority who account for more than 15% of the inhabitants of Stara Paz. The implementation of the statutes contributes to the overall development of local self-government units, and therefore Stara Paz with a large number of domestic and foreign companies, developed by the economy, with built municipal and road infrastructure, connected with the car, developed areas of health care, education, exceeds the level of municipal planning, and the initiative to obtain city status is justified, which would certainly improve the quality of life of the citizens of Stara Paz municipality, and the development of this local self-government and, of course, ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39862	Thank you very much. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go. National MP Zoran Milekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39863	Thank you. Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, amendments to the law achieve a more efficient work of municipalities and cities. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The draft law is further defined in Article 2. The responsible policy and uniform development of all local self-government is the principle of both the Republic and the provincial government. The South Banatian district has become a real example of socio-economic development, i.e. a region adorned by an increasing number of investment projects. In the town of Vrsac, from which I come, the Austrian company Imofins opened the sixth stop shop in Serbia in April this year. The 10m-euro investment is realised in a location that is very attractive, between the city's lake and the international road to Romania. The investment is very important because it will bring several hundred jobs to Vrscu. I would also mention the construction of a water factory in Pavlis near Vrsac, which at the height of 60% of the CAP's financing "2. October through a credit line with the German development bank "KFV", the rest is a donation through an interstate agreement, concluded between the Serbian and German governments. This is one of the larger investments in Vrsac, not only by investment, but also by the importance of the facility for the city, as it will solve the multi-year problem of water quality for drinking. In 2017 several major investment projects were implemented, which concerned the city centre and the reconstruction of several different facilities, cultural homes and schools in populated cities. The city administration has been significantly reformed, and all in order to deliver better quality services to citizens. Activities have been launched to create conditions for the construction of a new industrial zone, which will allow the further economic development of the town of Vrsac and will make it an attractive place for new investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39864	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39865	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, my amendment refers to the protection of vulnerable groups, and here I would draw attention to vulnerable groups of Roma, or Roma national minorities, since we are all well aware that Roma represent a second national minority in their size. First, I want to make a parallel between the authorities whose head was the yellow company, now in different aggregate states, but in the period from 2009 to 2012, and I will pay attention to the post-2012 period, as regards the protection of Roma's fundamental rights. I must point out that at the time of the former regime, the yellow company, Serbia, except for the robbed factories, except for more than 400,000 redundancies from the company, there were legally invisible people. Those legally invisible persons, i.e. persons who were not enrolled in the MKR, persons who had no IDs, persons who had no health books, persons who had no workbooks, were mostly members of the Roma national minority, and there were about 30,000 of them. In this way, the former regime, a yellow company, is the strictest possible rule of discrimination, because there was no legal regulation or legal act on the basis of which these persons would be registered as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that already in 2012, when citizens first trusted the SNS and its coalition partners, a legal framework was made, and this is the law amending the Law on non-partisan procedure, which allowed the 25 000 persons of Roma nationality to be mostly subsequently, based on a judicial decision, to be entered into the ICC, and on that basis to exercise all the rights that they belong to, both to them and to all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must also point out that this government has also done a strategy for the social inclusion of Roma and Roma women for the period 2018-2026. For years, if Serbia is recognised today as an example of good practice in Europe when it comes to national minority rights, I must point out that in Serbia it works in primary and secondary schools more than 181 pedagogical assistant, whose basic duty is to assist and support vulnerable social groups, primarily Roma children, in order to go through basic and later secondary education. The Serbian Progressive Party is pushing for policy-making in line with the needs of national minorities and certainly the law is in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39866	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39867	Thank you, President. It's on the trail of what the MP said, so, as far as the so-called so-called. Legally invisible persons, we have solved this issue, we have entered them into the MKR and we have even been commended that we are practically the best organised society in the region on this issue. I think we're also with the Citizens' Protector, and we've also received confirmation of this good result, so, in any case, one very important issue that we've solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39868	Thank you. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanislav Janosevic. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39869	Thank you, President of the Assembly. By submitting this amendment, I aim to improve and accelerate the further development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia. The real example of the development of local self-government is the city of Zrenjanin. As part of the 2018 budget, the Department of Economy envisioned 350 million dinars, which is more than 30 million dinars in 2017 and will greatly affect the development of our local self-government. For 2018, we have two circular intersections on the Belgrade road. It certainly is an improvement in the traffic and connection of Zrenjanin with Serbia's capital, which will allow better traffic for private entrepreneurs, many carriers, but also persons employed in Belgrade and travel daily and are on the route. What is very important is the project of capital investment for the city of Zrenjanin, which is building a bridge on Begej, as well as a bypass on the City Atar, which will connect the city of Zrenjanin with Belgrade in a better sense, and this is an investment greater than 5m euros. The town of Zrenjanin has done everything that is up to the city, and that is tender documentation, as well as building permits and Serbian Roads are now exploring public procurement to continue the construction of this capital investment. Accordingly, when I see someone so committed to affecting the development of his local self-government, I see no obstacle at all not to support those laws, as I am about to do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39870	The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39871	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the amendment that I have proposed if accepted, and I think I should, would simply disable certain things that did not allow for the statutes of local self-government or the law so far, nor allow the current proposed amendment of that Article 11, which is that the budgets of city municipalities or municipalities or cities are misused for private or political purposes. I spoke on Friday about the abuse of the municipal budget when it comes to the Paracin municipality, and I believe the ministers that you have already taken certain steps, because I am saying that at the addresses of all of us who are and the council members in Serbia, a letter was sent, allegedly the name of the Paracin municipality, signed by Mr Sasa Paunovic, and it cost Serbian citizens about 400,000 dinars. Everything was sent to the burden of the municipal budget. What I would especially like to point out about this abuse and how much a proud yellow company has learned everything to privatise the municipal administration is the fact that they are looking for, if anyone thinks at all to be solidarity with the snitching of their own state and mourning, without grounds, to send this letter to the address of the Paracino municipality, and they have given here and the contact and the name of the person employed in the Paracino municipality's administration to coordinate, receive all these e-mails, letters, and to communicate with those who, possibly, solidarity in all of this. What does that mean? Someone's getting paid out of the Paracino community budget to work against their own state and in the interest of the yellow company? For me, it's absolutely unacceptable. I think it's a special supplement to be sent from and the police to review the tax, and regular, because it's certainly a crime that cannot be tolerated. One more thing I am very interested in and what I will closely follow is whether Mr. Sasa Paunovic, the trip to Istanbul, will be sitting on the Monitoring Committee, or will be from the Paracino municipality's budget. It's something to work on. This yellow company, you know, I'm not superstitious, but it's very indicative that many of the ugly things in Serbia, when it comes to what was initiated or done by members of the yellow company, were happening on significant dates, significant holidays in Serbia. Slobodan Milosevic was delivered on June 28th, and behold, miracles, and this session of the Committee in Istanbul was scheduled on June 28th. Coincidence or intent, I don't know, but it's really for serious thinking, and it's for the serious work of state authorities. Because if someone is already talking about any abuse, then the first things like this should be reconsidered, properly processed, and we should talk further about any problems that exist in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39872	Ana Karadzic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39873	Thank you, President. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, and I want to point out at the outset that this law is excellent, especially because it takes care of citizens, because it is responsible for them. I have not submitted this amendment because I think the law is bad, but because I feel that women really need to be stressed in the functioning of local self-government. Here we are also talking about the functioning of inter-municipal co-operation, the system of functioning of local communities as basic units of local self-government, which is further precise and which represents a very big shift compared to the previous one. I would stress here, too, as a member of the larger municipality of Vozdovac, in some previous period, I witnessed what it looks like when the power at the level of Belgrade City and the government is at the level of any Belgrade municipality. We were in a position for citizens not to decide how to spend funds from municipal budgets, because in that period we needed the approval of the City for certain projects that we failed to implement because they wanted to obstruct our work. For this reason, I find this law very important, because now the local communities themselves that are constantly in communication with citizens will come up with the information that citizens want and how they want to spend their money. Now local self-government will be much more independent. Budget creation, as we have seen, through the adoption of these changes, citizens will be consulted on budget creation, when we talk about investment, the level of their satisfaction will rise. And that's our goal, because everything we do starts from the local community to the republican level, is that citizens live better, that they decide how to spend their money, and we who are here and who are chosen by them, to support them and to make it possible for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39874	The second amendment was submitted by Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39875	I thank President Gojkovic. And today we are discussing an old legal solution which, I will remind you, was adopted in 2007. This old legal solution was a legal void, a lot of cracks and imperfections when it was applied in practice. I wanted to make amendments to Article 11. The Law on Local Self-Government, adding a new attitude 2 to further reforms in the field of electronic administration in all our municipalities and cities. The savings are estimated by experts to be over 600m euros per year, when we are truly in full capacity to digitise and implement an electronic administration reform. I want to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of how it was before in our cities and municipalities, what did we inherit? As citizens at the time of Dragan Gilas wondered about budget spending, for example, the city of Belgrade. Former Mayor Dragan Gilas performed an absolute centralisation of Belgrade authorities. He wanted to ask for everything, wanted to have jurisdiction over the lives of all the Belgraders, wanted absolute, unlimited power, wanted absolute power in his hands. What kind of politics did Dragan Gilas have as a result and what was left after him? It led to the fact that Belgrade's border municipalities are not developing, that they are absolutely in the seal. It led us to have entire settlements in Belgrade today in the 21st century, with no plumbing, no sewers, no hospitals, no health homes, no schools, no kindergartens. Such a policy between Dragan Gilas and DS cared only for itself, she cared only for her pockets. They didn't care about the citizens. They ran politics in favour of the tycoon, not for the benefit of the citizens. Today, I could really organize an entire exhibition of failed DS projects, such as the "City Watch" on Vozdovac, which is the most expensive toy DS, which cost the citizens of Vozdovac and Belgrade 350,000 euros. Maintaining the "City Watch" on Vozdovac cost the citizens of Vozdovac and Belgrade 600 million dinars. This is the most expensive pre-election toy of Dragan Djilas and the then-president of the municipality also from DS, Mr Goran Lukacevic. What did President Goran Lukacevic say then? Based on the announcement of "Evening News", he spoke of the "Pazl City" as one of the magnificent children's centres that is open, not only for the children of Voždovac, but for all other children, that it is a entertainment centre that has its own security, which has its own maintenance, which will be opened throughout the year, that it is a unique amusement park of that kind and that it is built according to all the current European standards of the safety of the youngest citizens, who live in Belgrade. What was the "Watchel City" really? It was the mockery of Vozdovac and Belgrade. As a student of the Faculty of Political Sciences, I really had a chance every day to go past that "Town Watch", it was a place to gather bums and junkies, not safe for our children's game. In addition, we also had a replica of the "Terasia" model in New Belgrade. This cost citizens 72m dinars. Then, we had underground containers, only the haughtiness of the mayor at the time. The cost of building underground containers in Belgrade was sixm euros. The main actors of this affair were arrested in 2014. We can really talk about a number of malfeasances, about underground containers, but unfortunately I don't have enough time from the parliamentary group. The last project I want to talk about today is the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard. The reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard costs us 17m euros. It's been paid for about six million euros. According to the DRI report in 2011, she said that not only the Budgetary System Act had been violated, but also the then-produced Public Acquisitions Act. When we know all of this, the conclusion simply imposes itself. Due to Belgrade's haughty leadership by the DS, the Belgrade city's budget has been damaged by 960m dinars. Now I want to say that as SNS in Belgrade, we are really different from our predecessors, that we are fighting for the citizens of Belgrade to live better, that we are really the same citizens of Rage Fox, Skele, Jacob, Resnik, Kiev and all of those edge parts of our Belgrade. I want to say that we want to create a modern state, a modern capital where citizens will live from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39876	Thank you, you've wasted group time. The word has Alexander Jerkov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39877	I thank the president. Of course, it is clear that SNS MPs have nothing to say in favour of their amendments. These are amendments which, like all the amendments they have submitted over the past seven months, are groundless, pointless, whose adoption in theory would lead to complete chaos in the laws we are discussing, and today these amendments may be even more harmful than usual, because it is precisely these amendments whose sole purpose is to, through their bountiful explanation of the mud of the people of the DS and everything that the DS has done, that prevents us from talking about laws that should be found also in the debate in particular. It's about laws that regulate a very important area. It is about laws governing the rights of national minorities in this country. I believe that many members of the national minorities are important to hear what these laws say, that it is important for them to know in what way the National Assembly will decide on all the amendments that have been adopted, but unfortunately because of an incredible need for the SNS that even this institutional violence suppresses any dialogue in this society, it will not be possible. So I call on MPs of the ruling coalition that if they have nothing to say about their amendments, they may give up on the interpretation of the amendments. We've known for seven months what the fate of these amendments is. When there's a vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39878	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39879	I also have the time of my authorised representative, what's this all about?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39880	But you've got a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39881	I didn't notice that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39882	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39883	The basic and strategic definition of SNS is that municipalities in Serbia become a service of citizens, and that service is in the right sense of that word, that is, where citizens come and reach their needs as soon as possible, or solve their problems. I view this law as one of the steps in this direction that aims to increase the efficiency and work of local self-government and finally increase citizens' participation in policymaking. We need to avoid repeating all the bad examples we've had when it comes to the functioning of some local self-government. In this sense, I point out Vračar City Municipality, as a municipality in which DS has been in power for many years, whose result has been fatal to the citizens of Vračar. The result was that there remained over 780 million dinars of debt, loss, and minus. Therefore, both in the municipality and in public enterprises and institutions whose founder of Vračar municipality was. So that's something we need to avoid. Fortunately, in 2016, the government changed in Vračar, the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power in the municipality and since then the municipal administration has worked much better. So communication with citizens is better, citizens are more involved in decision-making, there are many more cultural, educational events. In every sense, municipalities work much more transparently and are in daily communication with citizens on solving different problems. So I would point out this opportunity just to solve one key problem, and that's a lack of room in kindergartens. The municipality gave up works of its administrative building and in co-operation with the City Secretariat for Education was designed to make it a kindergarten, and works are expected until the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39884	Thank you. The second amendment was submitted by Ana Čaapić. Do you want a word? (No) Aleksandra Tomic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39885	I thank the chairman. My amendment relating to Article 2, which is, in fact, an ex-member of the 11th. The Law on Local Self-Government is just talking about extending the jurisdiction defined by the Statute, and my amendment refers to adding an attitude that says that the 2030 agenda would be good if it existed in this kind of law precisely because we tend to be developed local self-government according to our respective powers exactly as modern states do. This is defined by the Sustainable Development Goals 10, which speaks of reducing inequality, and the goal, number 11, which speaks of sustainable cities and communities. The most interesting part, in fact, of this Article 2, is the budgeting and decision-making rights by Serbian citizens, which the SNS recognized before the law was passed, and has therefore initiated a particular project, such as in the city of Belgrade, "Budget by citizens". This is actually what when you look at all the analyses of the Fiscal Council of 2015 and 2016 say that the problems created in local budgets are just a build-up of costs through public enterprises, which are in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but also in poor budgeting, it means a concept of budgeting when it comes to decision-makers only. We had the opportunity to see that the evaluation of the Fiscal Council that by 2014 the budgets were unsustainable, unskilled, non-creditable, and the budgets of local self-government, public enterprises piled up with debts that required the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where the SNS and its President, Alexander Vukic, who was then prime minister, saw that these problems should be solved by bringing foreign direct investment, by opening new jobs, over 80 factories are open, over 100,000 people are employed, but also through public investment, so from the budget of the Republic of Serbia is for projects and infrastructure. In fact, you're increasing economic activity in municipalities and cities where the debts that were found were too large. So, in Belgrade, we're talking, 1.2 billion dinars, in Kragujevac we talked about four billion in the budget, two billion in local and public enterprises and 12 billion in energy and work related to Serbia and the EPS. So we're talking about debts in Nis that have exceeded even a third of the budget of three billion dinars. This whole thing was supposed to be taken care of. It couldn't have gone overnight and of course that by hard work and defining the budget, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, we had to solve the same problems that were created by 2012, such as Smederevska Palanka where we had a deficit of four billion dinars and completely devastated public enterprises that were not simply able to solve these problems. We had a meeting with the Committee on Finance of the Congress of Local Self-Government here in front of the Committee on Budget and Finance of the Republic of Serbia, and their question, otherwise, whether it is possible to establish the sustainability of the budget of local self-government, was explained just by giving a picture of this kind of local self-government, such as those who did so by 2012, and today they are complaining to this convention that one day they will not be able to manage local self-government. Believe me, international organisations are aware of exactly the problems that local self-governments have and those who led to 2012, and they know very well that they will not have a partner of someone they think will lose power in the next election, which is exactly who today are suing these international organisations, us who are persistently repairing the situation not only in the budget, but also in the normal functioning of citizens of these local self-government, because they want them to have really municipalities and cities where they come to simply say what their problems are and that they have local authority that will help them solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39886	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39887	Thank you, Chairman. There are many good newspapers that are proposed by the Amendments and Supplements Act on Local Self-Government, however, because of the time I have at my disposal, I will only list two that I consider to be the most significant. The first is certainly a greater participation of citizens in the creation of public policy documents, i.e. the fact that Serbian citizens will be asked in the future what is to be done in their cities and municipalities. As the second most significant newspaper is to define the position of the local community, where the accent is put on making local communities actually a service to citizens and that is what is great. It is important to ensure continuity in the work of the local community in order for citizens to have their legitimate and legitimately elected representatives at all times. While the "yellow company" led Serbia, in some cities the elections for the council of the local community were not called, i.e. they did not hold for eight years, and that was the case in Leskovac, in the town from which I came. It was obvious to someone that the citizens did not have their legitimate and legitimately elected representatives and that they did not have to take into account anyone when the money of all citizens invested in some failed projects. I will list only one of the failed projects of the "yellow company" in Leskovec, which is the project so-called "yellow company", which is the project. A well, where millions of Leskovec citizens have invested in finding hot water, drilling to huge depths in someone's private field. That the money of the citizens of Leskovec and all Serbian citizens would never again be invested in some failed projects without citizens asking themselves anything is exactly being passed and this law would, of course, contribute to the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the achievement of social equality. In the afternoon, opposition counterparts were sneering about the results of mayor Leskovec's work, and I had no opportunity to respond. I will use only a few minutes, for the sake of the citizens of Leskovec and citizens of all Serbia, to say what this is all about in Leskovac since 2012, since the SNS has been in power, has been done. So, 75 streets were paved, 20 kilometers of sidewalks were built and reconstructed, 65 streets were replaced by a water network that was over five decades old, eight kilometers of sewerage network was built, half the schools were renovated... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39888	Thank you. You don't have time anymore. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does he want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39889	Thank you, President. Under this Article 11 of the basic law, it is clearly defined what these are and what it is that is governed by the statutes of the units of local self-government, including rights and duties and local self-government. No one argues that it is the right of local self-government to address all international and domestic institutions in order to improve the lives of its own citizens, but that it is also their duty to take care of the dignity of its own local self-government, as well as the Republic of Serbia. However, very often this right is misused, and duty is completely ignored. An example of this is local self-government in Paracino, where after the decades of rule of Saša Paunovic and the people surrounded by it have surfaced many of the criminal activities related to public procurement procedures in the reconstruction of the city pharmacy, while engaging in labour, in the assignment of many public affairs to close relatives of DS officials. After that, a coverage of this followed the address to the Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government, the Council of Europe, various Western embassies, etc., but, of course, the motive of everything was the preservation of power and personal privileges. However, what is clear is that no congress, no advice, no embassy will stop the fight against corruption because, ultimately, they have not even started the fight. The fight against corruption was launched by current President Aleksandar Vucic and SNS, but they have no intention of stopping it, but rather, only to increase it more and continue to reveal everything that the Paunovics have done and similar to it. Now, on this very road is my modest contribution to this amendment, in order to prevent people like Sasa Paunovic in local self-government and to warn that such things will simply become a past in the future and that we will, in line with that, continue to fight corruption and crime together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39890	The second amendment was submitted by Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39891	Thank you, President. Dear government members, respected colleagues and colleagues, local self-government is one of the most important elements of the state system. The municipalities and cities are the level of government closest to citizens, the level at which the most important issues of general interest are addressed for each of us. What should be covered by the statute of local self-government, i.e. what are the extensions to be defined by the statute and the proposal for this law? Therefore, all municipalities must have their action plans, have strategic plans and must have rural development plans, of course, and other acts, in accordance with their respective competences within the statutes. The aim of these plans should be to increase the competitiveness of municipalities, to increase their transparency, to develop the possibility that every citizen can notify the municipality of the objections he has in his street, in his village, and that this observation is resolved in a quick and efficient manner. We also need to ensure better use of existing resources, to constantly reduce costs, risks and losses, to constantly work to increase the quality of work. For all of this, we need to have adequate personnel resources and in municipalities we need a constant education of existing employees and the ministry must really work on it all the time. The amendment I have submitted is further defined by Article 2 of this Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39892	Thank you. Zvonimir Djokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39893	Thank you, Chairman. While today and these days we are discussing the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Self-Government and while Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS are opening new factories throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, from the north to the south, from the east to the west, with the aim of economic recovery and economic development of the country and strengthening, among other things, of local self-government across Serbia, those on the other hand, members of the failed parliamentary opposition, trying, abuse the opportunities affording them by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to bring additional destabilisation into the Assembly itself. How do they do that? They work by inventing and telling lies here, total untruth. One of them is, in the end, I'll say if I have the time, an extraordinary representative of Mr. Ken. We are witnessing these days and violent attacks, what is happening in the country, trying to bring down the social order, the additional destruction of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. We know, we saw, we had roadblocks, traffic jams, we had false news of poisoned water, we had even staged the disappearances of journalists, physical attacks on police officers, spreading false news in northern Kosovo, etc. They're all doing it just to destabilize the country, to stop us on that path of progress. Who does that? The most prominent representative, Mr. Kenna, is the one most famous for the domestic relationship in his local self-government. This is the gentleman who drank 139,850 dinars in one night, most beers, "tuborgs", "java", "heinekena" etc., a total of 343 bottles of beer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39894	Time. Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39895	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on local self-government, which I would like to highlight the importance of the Eurointegration process for the development of local self-government. I want to explain how this whole process affects improving the living and working conditions of our citizens and how important it is that the resources we receive from the European Union funds can also be local self-government. Serbia is the largest recipient of EU pre-accession grants across the Western Balkans region. IPA funds are instruments for pre-accession assistance to support EU candidate countries in adopting and implementing political, institutional, legal, administrative, social and economic reforms, and this money is not returned and no interest is paid. From 2014 to 2020, the budget for Serbia is 1.5 billion euros and Serbia is very successful in using these funds thanks to the good co-ordination of the Ministry of Eurointegration with users of funds thanks to the proper selection of priorities and successful implementation of projects. The results are visible in practice, as so far these funds have financed schools, hospitals, roads, a good part of the flood resolutions, some of the money will be directed to develop small and medium-sized enterprises in the local ones. Some of the selected projects are aimed at local self-government are active employment measures to be implemented through the National Employment Service, local education and social protection services, as well as housing of refugees, and I am sure that all the money available to us from EU funds will be used fully, as has been the case so far. Our biggest grant donor is the EU, the most investment comes right from EU member states and the external trade exchange with EU countries is over 75%, and I think I have given enough reasons why my amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39896	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go. Bug Tarbuk, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39897	I would like to thank the president, respected citizens of Serbia, for the amendment I would like to propose in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending Article 11. The Law on Local Self-Government added a new position on 2nd -- the realisation of the Statute of Local Self-Government provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government. A round of issues governed by the Statute is being extended, local self-government will be required to hear the needs of citizens and to implement some of these needs in line with the possibilities. The law conducts a public debate on the issues of various things happening in the locality, from the Statutes through budgets, to those that are most needed for citizens, legal protection, economic development of municipalities or cities. Thus, citizens living in the area of local self-government do not create the development of their city only through elected representatives in the elections, but rather take their active participation. Once again, I would like to emphasise the importance of consulting citizens within the framework of the budget, local self-government, which contributes to transparency, efficiency and responsibility of the administration. Some local self-governments have already applied investment consulting institutions, but this must become a practice of local self-government. In my opinion, this is one of the laws that shows decentralisation. I think the law is excellent, and I call on my fellow MPs to support this law in the voting day, of course, if you have the strength and the time, my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39898	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39899	Thank you, President. This amendment complements Article 1. The Law on Local Self-Government where a new position 2 is added as the highest legal act of a local self-government, the Statute must be clearly and precisely defined in order to ensure the development of the Republic of Serbia and achieve better access to economic resources. The Statute regulates the rights and duties of units of local self-government and how they are implemented, the number of committees of the Assembly of the local self-government, the organisation and work of the authorities and services, the designation of the authority empowered to initiate the procedure before the Constitutional Court, the way in which citizens of the affairs of the units of local self-government, the conditions for the exercise of forms of direct self-government, the implementation of mandatory procedure, public debates in the preparation of statutes, budgets, strategic plans, development, the determination of the source of income, etc. This administrative act will make the work of local self-government much easier, and one example of good practice is certainly the town of Novi Pazar where the work of local self-government is fully coordinated with the work of the state administration and thus improving the development of this part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39900	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39901	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected guests from the ministry, we have before us the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, and immediately in Article 2 at the beginning also mentions the rights and duties of local self-government. One member of this law was also given the right to local self-government to co-operate with units of local self-government and outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but with due respect for the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I find it interesting to have one right which a local self-government has given itself, which is the right to skip all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, to skip the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and to write a letter to the embassy and to various institutions around the world and to complain that it brings out some half-truths and total untruths to the public and to cover up its business and irregularities in the business, especially in the public procurement and employment work. Of course, I mean Paracino, Mr. Sas Paunovic. Fear of control and the possibility of any irregularities coming out has also sparked the revolt of DS MPs here in the Serbian Assembly, but we have the obligation and the right to ask the Assembly here to examine Paracino's operations, or the business of the Paracino municipality's leadership, and to send various controls. Politicality must not protect anyone. If any of the DS members or members of the SPS or SNS are allowed to be protected and controls must exist. During Gilas, Dragan Gilas, the controls always existed and during Dragan Gilas the reasons for the control were no doubt about the legality of the work, these were more excuses, and the real reasons were the domination and discipline of certain municipalities he considered not to be politically alike and were not alike. The inspections didn't come to us at the time, those controls didn't come, they just moved in. We had a situation that in 2011, a financial inspection moved into the Municipality of Grock and spent nine months together with us where they took the office, where we printed out only one company of 16,000 pages, from the entire municipality of 35,000 sides and after nine months failed to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39902	The word has Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39903	Thank you, President. Once again, SNS representatives, if they have nothing to say about their amendments, do not use the time foreseen for discussion in particular and do not prevent other MPs from talking about amendments that are important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I really don't know, and I can't see what the purpose of the communication of MPs who don't talk about their amendments is, and what they would say about them, because, as I said, the amendments are submitted with an exclusive goal of preventing the debate on amendments that have been submitted to other members of the law. So, please, if you have nothing else to say but mud, don't waste time on this debate, it's important for many MPs to discuss the amendments they have submitted. Serbian citizens, seven months instead of discussing details, listen to the compositions that someone wrote to SNS MPs or wrote them themselves, really don't change things, the point is that the SNS abolished the debate on details in this Assembly. If you have any desire to influence the authorities, to send an inspection to the police, an army, I don't know who you want to send to the Paracino community. You are in power at all levels, send whoever you want just don't harass the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with these compositions that have already become, sorry, more than pointless. You have the right to submit amendments. That right no one disputes with the MPs of the people, but let at least a hundred amendments, which arguments have at least some seemingly meaningful meaning. This really doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39904	George Komlenski, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39905	I thank the chairman. I expect the minister will seriously consider this amendment submitted by his colleagues. And, this amendment, like all the amendments that have been submitted, has one very important goal that we've been talking about, is that in these several other municipalities where the yellow thief company is in power, stop stealing budgets, and that is the point. That is the goal of our work. That is the goal of passing new laws. And what they're afraid of losing their ability to abuse these few more budgets in Paracina, Capco and some other positions where they're in power is their problem, but every problem they have is success for us. I'm sure we'll be able to stop this theft completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39906	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39907	I thank the president. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, certainly that the adoption of this law should improve the development of local self-government and that the general interest of citizens is a priority, not as we are witnessing in some local self-government to be a priority of personal interest. I come from the local government of Sokobanja, where by June 2016, unfortunately, there was a yellow company in power, and as much as it was taking care of Banja, the fact is that at the end of the season they didn't, not only domestic, but tourists didn't have drinking water. It was their excuse – the lack of rainfall. Unfortunately, the truth is something else, a water net that hasn't changed in 30, 40 years and cracked valves had a water loss of up to 60%. Therefore, multiple was a shame. First of all, the guests who left Banja were dissatisfied and shortened their vacation, then interested investors who, of course, were in such situations detachedly interested in investing in Banja, landlords, merchants, caterers, all had damages, and the municipality's budget was damaged by the income from the home taxis. However, the situation has changed. Since June 2016, thanks to God, the SNS, the host party, who changed the water network into three main streets in Sokobanja in a year, has thus improved the water supply not only to the landlords, but also in a way more comfortable service to tourists. The value of this investment is 20 million dinars, of which 50% is financed from the Sokobanj Municipality's budget and 50% from the Ministry of Economy. But this is just the beginning. This year we're working on project documentation to change the water network within 5km of the main spring, from Mount Ozren to Sokobanja itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39908	Time. Thank you. A letter from Tijana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39909	I thank the president. Amendments to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government refers to the extension of the circle of issues which are regulated and the statute for which the practical application of the applicable law has shown necessary to establish in this general act, as well as those issues arising from the law itself. In particular, changes relating to the implementation of the public debate procedure for the adoption of the most significant general acts and the extension of the circle of authorised applicants to conduct a public debate are significant. The reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, which was adopted in 2007, are, above all, in the need to align the provisions of this law with the laws governing certain issues of importance for the work and functioning of local self-government. Part of the proposed amendments are in the function of removing the gaps in the current text of the Law on Local Self-Government, with regard to the calling of the meeting of SO or City, the preconditions for the successful exercise of the duties of committees, the setting of criteria for the identification of the number of members of the municipal or city council, the position of the assistant president of the municipality or mayor, the resignation of the president of the municipality or mayor, the change of equal status of vice presidents of SO or of the City, as well as the composition and work of the Council for Intermunities Relations. Indeed, a completely amended concept of determining the authority of the municipality or city is among the important newspapers, so that instead of listing the tasks of the local self-government unit, local self-government units are listed in areas where local self-government units have competences under specific sectoral laws in these areas. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39910	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39911	I thank the president. Dear fellow Members of the People, my amendment refers to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which is being amended in Article 11. The law also adds a new position 2 which reads: "The realisation of the Statute of local self-government provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to tax liability. “ The statute of local self-government, as a legal act dealing with the basic principles of local government regulation, must be in line with legal and sublaw acts in the field of local self-government. Since it is the highest legal act of local self-government, it also regulates the rights and duties of units of local self-government and how they are implemented, the number of committees, the work of bodies and services, the establishment and operation of local communities and other issues of importance for the local self-government unit. Realisation of the statutes means synchronisation of these elements, and how effective it will be, it will depend on the development and functioning of the local self-government unit itself. This practically means that by introducing certain criteria that a number of local self-government residents can name the number of municipal or mayoral assistants, as well as the number of members of the city council, then a certain professional prepares with a number of years of work experience in the state authorities for the local self-government chief, suggests the clear intentions of the government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate the work, the functioning of local self-government units, by achieving precisely the greatest effectiveness in its work. Systemic arrangement of all areas of work in local self-government will certainly affect growth and development, investment, production, new jobs, and thus local self-government revenues from taxes on various grounds will be increased, and their financial stability will be stronger and higher. In voting day, we will support a set of proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39912	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. He's not here. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39913	Dear President Gojkovic, within the framework of the Law on Local Self-Government, my amendment to Article 2. I further define this member. Municipalities and cities are encouraged by this bill to work closely together, thus establishing a mechanism for the joint performance of all jobs. An example of such cooperation is my municipality of Rakovica. In the agreements reached between Belgrade's self-government municipality and municipal organisations, last year on the street of Ljubisa Jelenkovic in Resnik, the construction of a 1,300m sewerage network began, while the new asphalt received seven streets and several untegorised roads on the Rakovic municipality. How does that affect the growth of the economy? Yes, it affects that no investor will come into the territory of any municipality unless there is an infrastructure in it, and the arrival of investors will reduce the number of unemployed where the Republic of Serbia will very soon boast a single-digit number of unemployed thanks to the policy led by the government of the Republic of Serbia and its president, Aleksandar Vukic. I call on my colleagues to accept my amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39914	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39915	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, given that the health of all citizens of Serbia is of particular national interest, that it is provided only to the developed health system and developed health care, as well as well as well-organised and equipped health centres and health homes, I have submitted an amendment that I have proposed next, in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which amends Article 11. The Law on Local Self-Government adds a new position that reads – Realising the statutes of local self-government, provides for overall planned development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of medical centres. In the statutes of local self-government, health homes were centered and remained now. Unfortunately, at the time of the previous regime, and in particular it was expressed in Vojvodina, on this most significant issue of citizens, which is their health, was not given enough attention, rather, because it was not there at all. In addition to this claim, I remind you of the enormous debts of pharmacies that the government of the Republic of Serbia met right at the beginning of its mandate, which is why we were in the drugstores, and this former government was not at all interested. They were only thinking about their pockets. As much has been resolved since 2012 until today and coming to the power of the SNS, the results that have significantly moved ahead on the scale of the picture of homes of health, medical centres throughout Serbia, as well as in my Sombor, are much better, more beautiful and quite different. At the end of my presentation, I would say that for every commendation of the paintings that went into the world about the award of 29 modern sanity vehicles provided by the government of the AP Vojvodina and assigned to the homes of health in Vojvodina. This is how responsible people who are now running the Government and the Resort Ministry do, unlike those who have forgotten about the citizens by 2016, but not their own pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39916	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go, colleague Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39917	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you be in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending Article 11. The Law on Local Self-Government added a new position on 2nd, which reads: "Realising the statutes of local self-government provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions." The municipality of Ćupria has brought a programme of local economic development among Serbia's first local self-governments, which has provided direct financial support to investments of interest to the municipality. It is also agreed to develop a detailed regulation plan for the Dobrichevo industrial park, which will allow the establishment of an industrial zone and a trade centre for central Serbia. A railway cargo centre is formed in co-operation with Kargo. An industrial zone was built, providing 16 ha of public-owned building land, fully equipped with infrastructure. Thanks, first of all, to our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Cupri has become an interesting destination for foreign capital. In Turkey, thanks to Turkish and Chinese capital, the following facilities have started to operate: "Tibeth Fashion", since September 2016, a Turkish investor, tricottage production, Eurofiber, since October 2016, a Chinese investor, finished fibre production, "OF Group" since March 2018, a Turkish investor, tov herodi. Currently, the municipality of Cuprij has fewer employees than the maximum number of workers prescribed by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. From 553 employed indefinitely in 2013, 407 currently employed indefinitely in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39918	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39919	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, I submit an amendment to Article 2 which is being amended in Article 11. The Law on Local Self-Government, in the sense of adding a new position on 2nd, reads: "Realising the statutes of local self-government provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on the rule of law." When we talk today about the overall development of our country, it is indisputable that the arrival of Alexander Vukic as prime minister in 2014 in the Pcinj County and Vranj as his seat, the problems that have been pushed under the carpet, began to be solved for years. Today, the development of the state involves both the development of Vranj and the south of Serbia. The latest example of the co-operation of local self-government and state, when it comes to Vranje, comes to us from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where last week, in the presence of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure Zorana Mihajlovic, Ambassador of Germany to Serbia, Mayor Vranja and Director of the JP "Vodovod" in Vranja signed two contracts for the construction of collectors and wastewater treatment facilities in the territory of the city, and under the programme with the German Development Bank KFV. Otherwise, the value of this investment is 14.2m euros. This capital investment will address the problem of sewage in Vranj, both in villages and in suburban settlements. Realising this investment also solves the problem of wastewater in Vranjska Banja, which is an important prerequisite for the development of tourism in this place. The collector to be built in Vranjska Banja to the wastewater treatment plant in Vranj will be 11.7 km long. If the state were present in the south of the case, there is much, and I would mention a project of property tax reform, which is implemented with the support of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, whose realisation lists a new 30,000 m2 facility in Vranj for the first two weeks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39920	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39921	Thank you. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about how SNS is experiencing local self-government in Serbia, how it is experiencing power, how it is experiencing the responsibility that we have received from citizens and the Republic of Serbia at the level of the entire state and at the level of municipalities and cities in Serbia, the results say. I'll give you one example. This is “Belgrade on Water”. Against the “Beograda on Water” rose almost all members of the opposition, and “Belgrade on Water” and the area where “Belgrade on Water” is located today was the property of a junkie, a snake, a rat, a waste and all that was ugly and did not attract anyone to walk that part. You couldn't get past the river. Today it is one of the most representative places in Serbia. "Belgrade on Water" we have launched a complete construction operation in Serbia, we have hired thousands of construction workers and this is a real example of how one responsible government, responsible for its citizens, who sees power as an opportunity to do something for its citizens, fulfils its promises, as it increases the standard in the country, how we treat local self-government, according to the budget and everything that citizens have given us the opportunity to manage. The Serbian Progressive Party, of course, and by repaying the debts left to us by our predecessors, has shown responsibility. The Serbian Progressive Party, with its results, from south to north, east and west, shows, opening factories and jobs. Only 140,000 jobs in the last five years, over 90 factories. And, I'll add, in Belgrade, one of the main things we've managed to do, which is to bring unemployment down to below 90,000. It's a record low unemployment rate in the last 30 years. That's how we treat the government and what the citizens gave us the chance to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39922	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39923	Thank you. The amendment I have proposed suggests an effect on the implementation of the statutes of local self-government, thus achieving the overall development of the Republic. To make progress, we need to be aware that the modernisation of the state sets local self-governments a significant task with improving the quality of life and work. The right, duties and way of achieving them shall determine the direction and development chances of a municipality. The Municipality of Grocka, where I live, has identified four development directions: development of municipal infrastructure, exploitation of the Danube River's potential, support for agriculture and improvement of local administration work are key in the process of development and modernisation. Simplification of the procedures for obtaining business and construction permits has been improved by an investment climate, and a service centre for the economic sector has been launched, which will facilitate and facilitate the creation of new business entities and timely information on all the programmes and subsidies offered by the State. The emphasis is placed on the fact that behind every successful local self-government, strategic and systematic approach to creating conditions for the development of local economy and attracting investors. To recap, all the reforms implemented by this government are being done precisely for the citizens. The reform of the catastra and the introduction of E license is revolutionary, as it has shown that Serbia can implement major reforms and receive international recognition for them. Now we're the tenth in the world, and three years ago, we were 186 years ago after the construction licenses were issued. However, all activities at national level would be unsuccessful if activities at the level of local self-government were not monitored. Simplifying and shortening these procedures has not only made life easier for citizens, but also opened the door for new investments, contributing to economic growth and financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39924	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39925	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear citizens, 29 parks, urban pockets, playgrounds and sports grounds were built on our municipality from 2014 to 2017. To do all of this, the city of Belgrade has singled out over 64 million dinars. All of this was done on a proposal from citizens who were asked to make green areas, parks and playgrounds by signing a petition from the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has achieved most of the demands of our citizens and has made a positive solution, and thus we have improved that the Novobean citizens have a better quality of life in their municipality. I am proud to point out that the SNS is running a city power that has not only arranged 29 parks, children's playgrounds, but has in the past few years brought together the built Bulevar Heroja from Kosar which connected the bridge to Adi's well, over 1,000 new parking spaces were built, a new police station opened on block 45 and a new bus stop was launched in 42 blocs. The reconstruction of Usce Park for which the city of Belgrade has been singled out by more than 246 million dinars in a year has begun. The Museum of Contemporary Art was renovated ten years later and is now in office. Dear citizens, I call on you to continue to make proposals, and the city of Belgrade will do everything possible to do more and to make a better living and quality living in our New Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39926	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Here you go, colleague Yevtić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39927	Dear President-in-Office, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, on Article 2 of the proposed legislative solution to be amended in Article 11 of the current Law on Local Self-Government, I propose an amendment in the sense of adding Article 2 which further defines the link between the implementation of the statutes of local self-government and the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Proposed amendments and additions to the law remove perceived shortcomings in the practical application of the applicable Law on Local Self-Government in relation to the work and functioning of individual authorities of local self-government and aim to transform administration into a more efficient, more professional, more modern service of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The government and the resolution ministry have recognised that in order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to improve the participation of citizens in policy making, and the proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government provide for encouraging citizens to the initiative, as well as the introduction of commitments to cities and municipalities to consult citizens on the investment part of the budget. The budgets of the municipalities in the future will not be able to be adopted until citizens give their opinion on them, and in their hands there should always be investment planning. They will stand in the way and boast to the presidents of municipalities who have used so far regulations and set up an irrational number of assistants. Now they will be helped in proportion to how many people there are. The tendency is to reduce the number of local officials compared to the number of municipalities or cities, to encourage municipalities and cities to cooperate more and help each other in lack of capacity, and to return to local communities an old role in connecting citizens with local self-government. The proposed amendments to the existing law have improved the functioning of local communities and their relationship with local self-government units. Certainly all the worse advantages that the proposed changes bring will contribute to a balanced and accelerated development in all areas of social life of the Republic of Serbia, and this amendment will, in turn, go in the direction of supporting the idea of even development, and I really think that the idea mentioned should, in some acceptable way, be woven and further defined in all the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39928	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of richinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39929	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the local self-government of the town of Leskovci recognized the problems facing agricultural producers. More than 127 million dinars were paid out of the city register on behalf of incentives in agriculture from 2013 to 2017. In December alone last year, 823 agricultural producers amounting to nearly 18 million dinars were paid. In the period from 2014 to 2017, farmers received subsidies, a total of 3.320. From 2014 to 2017, 11 million dinars were spent from the city of Leskovci's budget for the purchase of anti-building missiles that were distributed to the shooters. Also, in 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the financial participation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, Leskovac achieved several very important projects and the ministry participated up to 70%. First, the restoration and arrangement of the Atari roads. This project included 90 of the 144 settlements and the value of the projects per three years of 62 million dinars. A total of 167 km of atar roads were renovated. The Ministry helped the city in 2014 with 60%, in 2015 with 50% of the project value, and in 2016 with 47% of the project value. Also, the second project is a land combination and this project covers 1,100 hectares in three populated areas. Project value – 22 million dinars. The project was implemented in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The ministry also took part with 70% of the total funds invested. The realisation of the project was achieved by 81%. Depletion of old so far,... Wines of vines and fruit so far. This project covers 165 hectares and three settlements. The project is worth 29 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39930	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39931	Ladies and gentlemen, municipalities and cities have great responsibility and great importance for the daily importance of Serbian citizens. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government actually means that this importance becomes even greater. This law makes transparency in decision-making and the involvement of local communities even more important. Most of the key decisions taken today in municipalities in which the government of the SNS is certainly based and these decisions are made at the will of the citizens, but the legal solution makes us practically make these decisions institutional, i.e. when local administrations, i.e. the lowest levels of decision-making – local communities and citizens, start to decide and make their recommendations in investment in their territory, then, Mr Minister, we come to small budgets. Something we talked about 10-20 years ago when we said that Serbia in the ideal situation must lower investment budgets at the level of local administrations to so-called. small budgets of local communities. It's an ideal in every orderly, normal society that we strive for. When we talk about this law, we certainly say that the role of local communities, NGOs and citizens is even more expressed in the process of budgeting. The budget is a real and planned category at the level of local administration and thanks to the state of Serbia, its macroeconomic parameters and stability, we can talk about local budgets as a real and planned category. You know, it was hard to talk about the local administration budget, as well as the Serbian budget, local budgets and budgets to all of us, if we had an inflation rate of 10-12%. You didn't even have a plan, you didn't even have a development. When the inflation rate today in Serbia is at 1.1, i.e. at 0.5, even more importantly, when there are no inflationary expectations, then it allows local administrations and each of us, citizens of Serbia, to make real and maximum correct plans for our budgets. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39932	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39933	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Before I say anything, I'd like to work for the viewers, who joined the assembly debate now in the afternoon, after coming home from work, just to say briefly that Article 2. The bill of law has two attitudes. The first point is to conclude that the statute is the highest legal act of the unit of local self-government, and in the 2nd position it is more detailed, more precise and clearer to specify and define what is governed by the statute. In doing so, the main amendments concern the extension of the round of issues governed by the statutes, which have been practically implemented by this law so far, have shown that it is necessary to introduce this general act. In this respect, it is particularly important that the amendments be made to the public hearing procedure for the adoption of the most significant general acts and the extension of the scope of the proposal's mandate to conduct a public debate. It should be said that these changes, not only in this article, but in the whole of the law, achieve greater involvement of citizens in the process of preparing the investment part of the local self-government budget, enable the involvement of the highest public in the process of drafting laws and all other strategic documents, so that citizens and NGOs can also participate in their suggestions in creating the most important documents, i.e. local self-government policies. In essence, including citizens and their encouragement to these all planning documents, better, more efficient work of local self-government is achieved, as well as the promotion of the Institute of Direct Democracy and the involvement of the public in the adoption of the most important documents of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39934	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Martinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today one MP, former President of Smederevska Palanka Municipality, asked Minister Ruzic and asked us MPs – is there a municipality in the world where the business went through a football club? Yes, there was. It's the Smederevska Palanka municipality, while the DS was in power, and, behold, Mr. Minister, if you're interested, I can give you this documentation. This document, which is otherwise in the Department for the Budget of Smederevska Palanka Municipality and is not a secret document, clearly shows that from January 01, 2015 until December 31, 2015, for a full year, it is only one year through the "Jasenica1911" football club. the year," practically functioning the entire business of Smederjevska Palanka municipality. I think the numbers speak for themselves. The total income of FK "Jasenica 1911" for this year was 20.8111.766,06 dinars and the total expenditure of 20.8112.472,25 dinars. And when you take to list these performances, it is very clear that through the Jasenica football club that salaries have been paid to employees in the municipal administration. There have been different fees paid, but what's worst of all, when you get to page 6 of this document you'll see, to page 7, that both checks and cheques and 103,000, 100,000, 30,000, 65,000, well, on page 7, all checks themselves, 40,000, 88 thousand, 102,000, 120 thousand, 243 grand, 300 grand, 100 thousand, 200 thousand, 259,000, and so on the entire calendar year. So, this famous prize question -- is there a local self-government somewhere in the world that worked through a football club? Unfortunately, it existed in Serbia during the DS, and the municipality was called Smederjevska Palanka. Fortunately, the citizens of Smederevska Palanka are no longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39936	Thank you. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Palalic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today in the Republic of Serbia, citizens fully exercise their constitutional right to local self-government without discrimination and without restrictions, as it once was and what I talked about more in the previous debate. This time I want to say one important thing – that strategies as general documents in the Republic of Serbia are really respected and really come true. Just passing this law amending the Law on Local Self-Government is evidence. A strategy for reforming the state administration that defines the need for rationalisation, professionalisation and democratisation of state administration through various changes to this law have found its implementation. And everyone who criticized the proposed law is just avoiding this fact that rationalization is done by reducing the number of municipality assistants. It was not only about reducing the number of employees, as all statistics say, but also about the fact that rationalisation is carried out in a concrete way. Professionalization by prescribing clear conditions for the head of the municipal administration. Democracy in several segments, which is very important, because there is a lot of talk about democratisation, and those who criticise the Serbian government say Serbia is not a democratic society. It is precisely in the case of this law that through a series of solutions, democratisation is achieved – through the new position of local communities, through the new role of citizens when it comes to the initiative, public debate on acts adopted by local self-government and through the notification of committees on the activities and acts adopted by the assembly of municipalities. Is there a better example of how in a concrete way at the lowest level of organisation in one country, democracy is strengthened and the role of citizens in one society is strengthened?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39938	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39939	These are excellent solutions and in the right direction lead to changes to the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39940	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Cokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39941	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, is hardly able to leave the Smederjevska Palanka municipality. Four billion commitments, mentioned here for two years, came between 2008 and June 2016 when the SNS assumed responsibility in the Smederjevska Palanca. Two major items in the structure of this debt are over a billion dinar commitments to the PIO Fund for 19 enterprises, and there were three in 2008 which were founded to block which, they set up a new company with similar or same performance, to work. Mr. Martinovic mentioned a way to pay the salaries earlier. I'll tell each other now. In a palanical water line where about 160 employees were employed for two years, compensations amounting to 36,000 linearly as union aid were paid. Everyone knew that in this country. I realized that our goal and this is our first step to modernise and improve this law and now I'm asking you, Mr. Ruzic, because I asked for an answer to that question, but I didn't find it. You know how the president of the municipality changes. There's a new majority being created, and let's just replace it. If that's not possible, if a group of people are created who hold that majority at all costs, as we have a situation now in Paracino, and we don't have a function in that city, we don't have a job, which is a mechanism, just people are sitting for two and a half months? You don't have a mechanism to disband them. That's where they're being stolen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39942	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39943	I thank the chairman. The Republic of Serbia has become an economically strong and orderly country, and the results of the fiscal policy that has been being conducted since it was in power of the SNS have led to a dwindling development of Serbia in all fields. A large number of investors are coming to Serbia with Alexander Vukic's policy, and even regional development is also taken into account, i.e. that the economic improvement is felt in all parts of Serbia and in all local self-governments. This is how the results and conduct of the responsible state policy do not go to pointless attacks from the opposition ranks, i.e. the greatest thieves, pests and non-workers Serbia has ever had. In the absence of any policy and complete misunderstanding as to how a regulated country works, but above all for them the greatest nightmares, that they can no longer be thrown away by people's money, like any good servants who are willing to attack their country most fiercely and betray Serbia. The latest example is representatives of the yellow authority from Sapac, Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic and Parliament Speaker Nemanja Pajic, who are visiting the municipality of Pec, where they were received by the mayor and the president of the Pec Assembly. Representatives of Sapca sit under the flag of the unrecognized and self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, and all documents of this meeting and contracts signed bear the titles of the fake state of Kosovo. Is that what they're sending a message to and to whom, that they're willing to admit so-called. Kosovo and destroy the state of Serbia and the envoys of the same Vuk Jeremic, who with his idiotic question raised the question of the fate of the southern Serbian province from the UN? They also arrived to boast, immediately after the meeting, on the official site of the town of Sapca, where the word Pec was written in Albanian. They also did not hide pleasure, with a broad smile and a gold tooth, after meeting with this president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39944	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39945	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, have long been waiting for these amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government to be found in the Assembly, to allow for better and easier functioning of local self-government. The law defines the number of members higher according to the number of local self-government residents and also provides for greater participation of citizens in the work of municipalities. The law stipulates that the relationship between the local community and the municipalities should be further regulated, as local communities today do not have their own property and do not carry out any communal work. This property has passed into the management of municipalities and cities. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which changes in attitude 11 which highlights the importance of realising the statutes of local self-government, the growth of all economic indicators in the Republic of Serbia, which show only the growth of these previous years. Based on the expected international circumstances, the announced economic policies and trends rising in 2018 are growing by over 4%. We expect price stability, slight employment growth, a real growth of 3-4%, while the external deficit will be at this year's level. Such game rules encourage individuals to save more, invest, acquire new knowledge and skills, introduce innovation, take risks and other activities that generate economic growth and employ people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39946	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39947	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Realising the statutes of the local self-government provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving health care. The lowest level of state administration is local self-government. Local self-government is an independent system of governance of local communities, of common and general interest to the local population. The highest legal act of the units of local self-government is the statute. The Statute regulates the rights and duties of the local, the number of council members, the work of the service authorities, the conduct of a public debate in the preparation of statutes, budgets, development plans, work between communities and many others. The law and the ability of the local self-government authority to regulate and manage public affairs which are in their jurisdiction and of interest to the population under the law. With mutual co-operation of local self-government with health care institutions, health homes and hospitals, it has begun to address the individual's most important resources, which is health. I will give just one example, there were two English halls in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by 2016, of the 22 Angel Halls in Vojvodina there were only two that functioned and were in Sremska Kamenica, of which only one worked. It was a strategy and concern about local changes in the yellow company. We know that acute myocardial infarction is very important every minute. It was so important that in 2017 three angel halls, one in Subotica, one in Sombor and one in Zrenjanin opened on the territory of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39948	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying that a stone thrown out of my hand and a spoken word cannot be returned. We were listening to a gentleman who wasn't here right now, and I didn't have a chance to fight back, who was saying that in their time the wheat was 25 dinars, and today it's 13.5 dinars a kilo. In turn, in 2009 and 2010, during a time of power shared with them "heine-kene", which for one evening drank the value of one tank and two annual rents for a pool in Smederjevska Palanca, so he drank two swimming pools, amazingly, in their time the wheat was 13.5, and after the change in 2012, the price of wheat went up to 25 dinars. I have to admit that it was such a high price because of the drought and after that it settled at a price between 18 and 20 dinars. He also said that in their time the raspberries were, I don't know, two, three euros, which is incorrect. During their rule, by 2012, in a protest of raspberries that could be seen, the price of raspberries was 90 dinars, or slightly less than one euro per kilogram. So, there's this one thing that's been told, and that word he can't bring back anymore, and I'm gonna wait for him with it at every session. What I also want to say is that agriculture needs to develop faster and stronger and better, and I believe that we can make a result, if not as Denmark and the Netherlands, then we need to look up to them and that these small agricultural holdings specialize in agricultural production, that they are the smallest ones specialized in fruit and livestock, that with a few acres of well-organised orchards or only half a hectare of plastics and how they can live well. I also cited the example of Denmark, and I quote the example of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Spain, it seems to me, which was in the breeding of fur, which the former government tried to ban in 2019, that only Denmark's real fur traffic annually from 842 million to 1.5 billion, that rich Sweden is also making substantial income and I don't know why something good for the richest countries should be bad for Serbia. I believe we will soon end this pointless ban.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39950	Thank you. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39951	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government reads – the implementation of the statutes of local self-government provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. The bill allows for better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy at the level of local self-government and greater participation of citizens, based on the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Accordingly, one of the objectives of the bill is to strengthen democratic principles, primarily the participation of citizens in local government affairs. The bill envisions the participation of citizens in public debate, which is mandatory for all municipalities and cities in drawing up a decision on the budget. In this way, citizens are allowed to invest more often in decisions on how to invest and how to spend them, because these are budget funds, the resources of all citizens. Unlike the previous one, the bill provides that 5% of the total number of citizens with voting rights on the territory and local self-government units are required to launch a citizens' initiative. This significantly facilitates the launch of the initiative and the preparation in practice of this institution of direct democracy. All of this represents a significant step towards achieving the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, the efficiency of institutions, including judicial ones. I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted in Article 2, and this is achieved by the amendment that I propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39952	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39953	I thank the chairman. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, a national MP from the opposition's ranks said that the time proposed and allowed for the interpretation of the amendments should be given to others. I'd love to give her my two-minute time if she was in the O.R., but since she's not in the O.R., I'm going to have to explain my amendment. One of the most important elements of public administration reform and local self-government is its modernisation necessary to make it a true citizen service. The country's health system is one of the most important elements of social security and the well-being of its inhabitants, but an important factor in social progress. Without quality health care, there is no healthy and workable nation, which is a prerequisite for social and economic development. For this reason, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government organised a professional meeting on the subject – Health for the future of reform in the service of providing public services to citizens. So, for example. The adaptation of the Nis House of Health, the largest home of primary health care in Serbia, which provides services for about 300,000 people cost 100 million dinars. In fact, primary health care is in the jurisdiction of local self-government and funding mostly goes from the centre or from the RFZO. Medical institutions in primary health care are financed in one of the following ways, by so-called Bismarck's model, most likely, if I have time, in the light of the third amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39954	Thank you, colleague Rancic. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39955	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, is not enough just to write and adopt the Statute of local self-government, but to implement its application in practice as the SNS does. Only in this way will we be able to affirm the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of honourable Members of the people, the SNS and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia stand. The application of the Statutes of local self-government also affects the affirmation of education and education, especially moral education and patriotic feelings and relations with property. If Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the wolf, had a proper relationship with patriotic feelings he would not spit on his country wherever he arrived and would not be headed by an international criminal gang suspected of money laundering and corruption. Respected Serbian citizens, all of them built by Comrade Tito, Slobodan Milosevic preserved, destroyed Dossovska scum, elite in robbery privatisation, and Aleksandar Vukic is rebuilding. That's why this amendment is very important for moral training so that in the future, such abominations and moral freaks will no longer appear in the image of Vuk Jeremic and his friends and embarrass our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39956	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39957	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have now, as in previous laws, submitted an amendment that gives great support to the development of underdeveloped areas of Serbia, mountainous and mountainous areas in municipalities such as the Srljig municipality from which I come, municipalities such as Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Meroshin and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, which have a chance to develop, now we have the opportunity to provide certain elements in which it can be better done. I am giving great support to this law and I would like to invite all fellow Members of Parliament and all citizens to give support in the coming period to be president of the municipalities, because believe me, every woman has a much greater strength, desire and will to work faster, stronger and better for her community. The municipalities where I come from, Jelena is the president of the municipality, the municipality works much better than when I was president of the municipality. Today, we had a meeting where together with state authorities, with "The Railway of Serbia", with the mayor of Zaječar Bosko Nicic, together with the president of the municipality, Mr. Djokic, with the head of the district of Dragan Sotirovski, we are working to improve the railway line, to do a reconstruction of the railway line. In this way I want to give support, we small municipalities to the initiative that together the ministries, the state authorities are working in the interest of solving the problems of all citizens. By investing in small municipalities, in the middle, in mountainous mountainous areas, by investing in agriculture, it is an investment in the future of our country of Serbia. I call once again on all fellow Members of Parliament to support the amendments I propose, because believe me, a legacy like Svrlig, Bela Palanka and these undeveloped municipalities only have a chance to develop when we give them support. As an MP for the United Peasant Party, I will support the amendment, power and all laws, but believe me, our state of Serbia will work much harder and better when these areas are in a better situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39958	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39959	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government which represents a framework from which local self-government in the future will exercise more precise powers and other powers. In order for a local self-government to be effective, or successful, one of the important factors is that it is also run by people of sufficient quality and agility. Kikinda, the city I come from, I think it belongs to a group of successful cities. One of the proofs of this is the prize of the Council of Europe, the honorary flag of Europe given to Kickindi the day after tomorrow. June 20th for an exceptional push in the field of international co-operation and promotion of European values. Kikinda took advantage of its border position, or close to Romania and Hungary above all, and has also developed a cultural exchange from this country, but also an economic exchange. Today, we have more investors in kickinda, because it has fought for the arrival of serious foreign companies, some of which have been willing to allocate serious land purchase funds in the industrial zone. So, it wasn't even land in the industrial zone, it was this company that paid the full amount of land value. This is first of all, the French "Mequaphorus", and next to it is the Italian "Calcedonia". These companies represent a greenfield investment in Kikinda, although we also have a brownfield investment that is a “Zopas” that has already started with infrastructure and a certain number of workers. He employs over 550 workers today. There are serious intentions to employ up to 1,000 people by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39960	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39961	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted this amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which amends Article 11. The law on local self-government, which determines what is regulated by the highest legal act of local self-government, the statute of local self-government. My amendment reads in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which amends Article 11. The Law on Local Self-Government adds a new position on 2nd -- the implementation of the statutes of local self-government provides a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the functioning of the judiciary. I particularly stress the importance of amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which determines that the statute of local self-government defines the attitude of local self-government towards the local community. The solutions so far have not been good, when it comes to the status and position of local communities and their relationship to local self-government, municipalities and the city. These changes and additions certainly create a legal framework for the local community to be the smallest organisation, i.e. a territorial unit in which citizens' problems will be identified and solved. I'm taking this opportunity to highlight the work of local self-government from the middle I come from, the Municipality of the Great Plan. In order to improve the quality of life of locals in the territory of local communities, this local self-government has undertaken a number of important works on behalf of improving municipal, road infrastructure and public purpose facilities. Significant work has been carried out on the territory of all local communities to arrange the road network and each local community has received new roads and new streets. New streets and new roads have been built. In all local communities, works were carried out on reconstruction of facilities, cultural homes, kindergarten facilities, schools, gyms, as well as on health facilities and rural clinics. Since the constitution of the Municipality of Velika Plan, on 10 June 2016, when the SNS took over, an active policy has been led to attract new investments and create new jobs, which could be talked about a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39962	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Žarić Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39963	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill that we are discussing in particular only confirms that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not only following modern trends that are more efficient and responsible for state administration, but also acts in terms of more complete implementation of reforms in order to join Serbia. With this in mind, I would like to say that these days the actual adoption of a resolution in the European Parliament between the Stabilisation and Association Committee of the EU and Serbia, which praises Serbia's continued progress in European integration. The point is that in 2025 it is not unattainable for Serbia. In many areas, reforms have been accelerated, and that is commended. It also praised Serbia's economic policy, regional co-operation, and most importantly, a recommendation was made to open new chapters. That means Serbia is on the right track. All EU member states have agreed to open two new chapters – Chapter 33, budget and financing of the provisions and Chapter 13, relating to fisheries. This is the result of the measures implemented and the reform results, especially in the area of the rule of law, but also in Chapters 23 and 24 and that means that our results are recognised. Also, a portion of the pre-accession grants of around 42m euros will be signed by the end of June. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government certainly contributes to Serbia's EU accession process, and I therefore propose that we support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39964	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Birmancevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39965	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, the Law on Local Self-Government is certainly extremely important and will now arrange local self-government, way of doing business and way of working. But what's the problem, the local self-government itself, the Sabbath, will be very difficult to be arranged without the help of the MUP and the D.A.'s office. If I tell you that just from the city's self-government, or from the budget of the town of Sapca, Mayor Zelenovic and Parliament Speaker Pajic were guests of the Pec Assembly, with Parliament Speaker Islam Husaja, who organised the welcome of the High Representative of the town of Sapca. Enough information that is for the citizens of the Whisper of Rights and that will show that these people are doing what they are not authorized to do, for which they have not received a vote. I guarantee that given the fact that we're talking about the town of Sapac, where honest and patriotically defined men from World War I and in history, remember the color of Misar, ancestors can't forgive this departure to Pec. Shame on you, Mayor, President of the Assembly, on behalf of the citizens of Sapca, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. You have no right to sit under the flag of the non-existent state of Kosovo. You have no right to sign a contract on anyone's behalf, especially on behalf of the citizens of Sapca and the citizens of Serbia. What the future will show is that no one else in Šapco, nor in Serbia, will believe you. What you did under the orders of Djilas and Dusan Petrovic, it will serve you honor, and in the elections you will receive the support that was in Belgrade, and it was one big zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39966	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39967	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today those who are not here honor us to endure pointless amendments, and I must remind once again what amendments they have endured. They've filed amendments where they're making a circus out of the Assembly, where they want to secure Santa's passage. These are the same thieves who devastated the municipality of Triestenik, when they were at the head of that municipality. A colleague who often knows how to lecture us here, but unfortunately, we rarely see him here. Why? Because there is a shortcut to work -- it goes and poisons the citizens of Serbia, sells some party that changes the names, from G-17, the URS, through the People's Party, and I don't know what it's like now, in what state it's in right now. Perhaps the party is now in that alleged coalition with those who can't even quorum at their own sessions to secure. But we are not paying attention to them, we are doing the job responsibly and in the interest of the citizens and therefore we have huge support for the citizens of Serbia. I would remind you that by 2012, the town of Kruševac, where the yellow company had ruled, inherited huge problems, but with responsible politics and host management of the city, then, Mr. Bratislav Gasic took over the mayor, we were able to restore the situation, we were able to secure a stable business environment and attract investors. Those of the yellow company have failed to resolve property-legal relations. But the responsible policy, primarily SNS, but also coalition partners, was able to restore the old glare to the city, which was fourth in the old Yugoslavia by 2000, but from 2000 to 2012 it reached the very edge of the collapse. We will continue even faster, even stronger, even better, because of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39968	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39969	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when we talk about local self-government, we are always somehow seeking such an arrangement that will be able to respond in the fastest and best way to the needs of citizens. In this administrative work, the most effective, simplified procedures and patient communication with citizens are required. In the development work, which is very important for citizens, progress certainly depends on the level of the budget, on local priorities and on the agreement made between citizens and local self-government representatives. Bor invests a lot in solving problems that no one has ever solved in terms of water supply and sewerage networks in rural areas. The development of a water and sewerage network project is under way, after which the citizens of the pine villages will have resolved this important issue. In addition to this project, the project technical documentation for collectors and waste water treatment plants is also being developed in the river basin, which represents a decades-old ecological problem. I must point out that we have raised the maintenance of the rural roads to a higher level and that the Atharic roads in 12 pine villages are paved. We are working to start rural tourism that is very attractive in developed countries, thus trying to provide the necessary infrastructure. It is important to plan the budget and find development solutions leading to certain savings in the future. An example of that is the introduction of ice lighting. We replace the existing lighting of ice with light all over the city. The value of this project is 195 million every three years. According to the budgets, in those three years, on the basis of savings in that period, the project will pay itself off. This is precisely supporting the claim that local self-government must be tailored to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39970	Thank you. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39971	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by supplementing this Article with Article 2, which I have proposed, is further defining the importance of the implementation of the statutes of local self-government in the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, particularly the development of medical centres. In addition to continuing the human empowerment of the health system, the employment of young medical professionals and the approval of the professional training of doctors, i.e. the assignment of a specialist in continuity, significant resources are allocated to the construction of newer and reconstruction of existing health facilities, i.e. to the supply of medical equipment and investment maintenance in health institutions. In the past few years, Nova Varoš municipality has invested directly in the House of Health more than 20 million dinars. The funds were defined for the opening and fitting of the physical medicine service, which spared citizens from going to other health institutions, as it has been the case decades ago. A pharmacy was also opened in the institution itself, and parking and decorated space was built around the House of Health. Two SUVs and a passenger car have been purchased, thus improving the work of home care and treatment services, as well as field work especially in remote mountainous areas of the municipality. The Energy Efficiency Project has also been implemented, a fully reconstructed boiler room and installed new automatic boilers, so that patients now have heating in the outcast compartment and in the House of Health continuously, 24 hours in the winter period. These days, a good practice of health investment has been continued by the municipality. A new field vehicle has been purchased, as well as a number of medical equipment, which continues to raise health care levels for citizens of Novi Varoshi. A responsible policy by the government of Serbia and the municipality of Nova Varoš, led by the SNS, creates conditions that will contribute to the development of health and thus to the development of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39972	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39973	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Usually the statute of local self-government is said to represent the Constitution at a local level. It is an act that deals with the basic principles of governing the system of government at the municipal level. The Statute lays down the basic framework for the arrangement of a local self-government. Realisation of the statutes of local self-government defines the general common interest and participates in the creation of a way in which public affairs are managed at local community level, from the adoption and implementation of the local economic development strategy, the adoption of urban plans and spatial arrangements, financial plans, to inspection jobs, that is, from the president of the municipality to the work related to the advice of local communities. During 2014, Bajina Basta was hit by catastrophic floods and glides. The estimated damage from floods and slides in Bajina Basta municipality was sevenm euros. Then, in Rogacica, a Bajnobastan village, only a 20-centimeter-long goat path by the ambis, which made the Rogacica River, could be reached by taking part of the road that leads from Bajina Basta to this village and further to Belgrade. The funds of the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the Government of Serbia's budget of 552 million dinars of the route have been completely restored at a total length of 9.6km, creating preconditions for the smooth arrival and departure from Baji's Basta. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39974	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39975	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amending the provisions of Article 11(2) of the current Law on Local Self-Government, extends a series of issues which are governed by the statutes for which the practical application has proved necessary to determine in this general act. In particular, I am apostrophe of the amendments concerning the implementation of the public debate procedure for the adoption of the most significant general acts and the extension of the circle of authorised applicants for public debate. In this regard, I point out that citizens generally have significant reserves towards informal but also formal forms of their own participation in the management of public affairs, as continued political culture does not value that kind of civil engagement in public life. Most of them are not even encouraged by their local structures to think in this way and activate to solve problems together with these authorities and make local communities make the best use of all their capacities to improve living conditions. Civil participation has great importance for improving democracy in every country, especially in countries in the process of creating a modern, legal, political and economic system. The participation of citizens in the process of creating, making and implementing decisions creates an active civil society of responsible and engaged people. Therefore, public debates are of great importance, on the basis of which each version of the proposed decision should be amended and complemented, and as a result of this process, the final text of the decision should be produced. Also, public debates have great importance for the fight against corruption, acting as a preventive tool, which is why it is important to regulate public debates and allow citizens, associations and anyone who wants to contribute to the quality of the rules and decisions. Also, during a public debate, it can be shown whether the solutions discussed are based on a real need and public interest to regulate a relationship or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39976	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krivokapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39977	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Law, which adds an additionally defined position to the said article, and it reads: "The realisation of the statutes of local self-government provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to undeveloped municipalities." Amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government have defined the role of organisations and institutions at local level, as well as citizens, and local self-government authorities, their structure, competence and framework of action have been defined. The work of local self-government is more detailed in the statute adopted by the Assembly of the Municipality, which is the highest legal act of the unit of local self-government, which must be brought into line with legal and sub-legal acts in the field of local self-government. The Statute lays down the basic framework for the arrangement of the local government system. Local self-government is definitely a development generator. Local self-government is an important segment of the state when it comes to supporting the economy. Why did I bring this up? Because it has to be recognised, although I know that the opposition will find this very difficult, but the fact is that only the president of Serbia and the SNS are seriously and without delay going into business in recovery of the economy, because at the rate that the economy is strengthened depends heavily on how good it will be in almost all other areas, in education, health, social policy, culture and sport. That is why our country has directed all its strengths to help the economy, so that the economy can help the state and society. That is why I said that local self-government is an important segment of the state in support of the economy, as it is expected from the republican authorities that all capacities focus on reducing unemployment and increasing living standards, which is certainly directly dependent on the situation in the economy, citizens expect the same thing from local authorities. I can freely say that this law is of great importance both for citizens and for potential investors and creditors, which is a positive result of the overall development of the state itself and certainly undeveloped municipalities. Given all the above, I must stress that it is necessary in Article 2. to add an attitude that will be further defined in order to realise the statutes of local self-government... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39978	Thank you. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, that the state administration and local self-government play the most important role in the development of the Republic of Serbia itself, but my insistence that special attention be paid to culture and cultural development, I think it makes complete sense. That defines one people, that defines the state. I'll tell you that, by chance, five years ago, I had the opportunity to be in the Peèko Patriarchy at the "Balkan and the Middle East" conference, where the esteemed professor of Telavia University Martin von Clevert had an exhibition on how it was managed by one of the states of Israel to make in this great Islamic world a state that was dominant in everything above all others, as it was possible. The distinguished professor, one of the world's greatest intellectual property authorities, said that the American weapons were large capital that came from the diaspora, created the state, but the state was not built by it, built by culture, built by education. You today of the ten best universities in the world must mention at least five from Israel. You have no theater, no ballet, no library, no cultural institution in the world, in Paris, London, New York, and no such one exists today in the state of Israel. That's how a nation is built, that's how one state is built, that's how a state is built when it's in such an environment as Israel, and we're not in much different. So it's very important that we understand the importance of culture and how much we can do. This culture can't be based on Borka Pavicevic, it can't be based on women in black, it can't be based on cultural decontamination, on others who do everything to destroy us and everything we have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39980	The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39981	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to amendments relating to the statutes, and in particular to the budget of the units of local self-government, I point out that it is very important for the realization of the same special attention to transport infrastructure, but above all, all the municipal infrastructure that the local self-government unit needs to provide to its citizens. It is indisputable that great importance is given to the very elements, the basic elements for the development of our country, such as the construction of highways, the construction of state and municipal roads, the modernisation of railways, etc., and the first place before the arrival of SNS, President Aleksandr Vukic, was in very poor condition. Today, when some talk about reducing income into the budget of local self-government units, we on the other hand have an example of the Ub municipality, supported by the SNS programme, whose budget is never more stable, with all the calmed commitments, where each week it opens up at a minimum one construction site, which is the reconstruction of schools, kindergartens, paved roads and streets, the construction of sports-recreative centres. I would also take the opportunity to say that today is one of the most modern playgrounds and the most modern in Serbia on a surface of 460 square meters and it is currently the largest in Serbia. Since the beginning of 2018, we have had many investments in the Municipality of Ub, including the construction of a trafo station, worth 22,000 euros, the construction of the first traffic station in the new urban settlement, worth 105,000 dinars, the construction of new roads in 30 Ubian villages, which is the result of excellent co-operation between Ub Municipality and "The Way of Serbia", etc. We will use every opportunity to talk about the results of our work, on the one hand, with convincing evidence, and on the other hand to remind the citizens that we should not behave, as was the case in Smederjevska Palanca, where you put the municipality of 800,000 dinars of income with over 4,000,000,000 dinars and block all accounts and schools, and kindergartens, and homes of health, local communities and everything that exists, e.g., that matters on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39982	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39983	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment and suggested that it be in Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government adds a new position, which reads: "The realisation of the statutes of local self-government provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving the work of local self-government. “ Article 2. The proposal is clearly defined by a round of issues which are regulated by the statutes of the unit of local self-government, rights and the way they are implemented, which is very important, the implementation of the public debate procedure when preparing the budget in the part of the planning of investments and the adoption of strategic development plans. Therefore, the principle of openness, transparency, the principle of agreement of local self-government authorities with citizens on the most important issues of investment and development of the environment in which they live, all of which is of particular importance in narrow areas such as the local communities. Was the agreement of the previous regime with citizens until 2012 in Vojvodina until 2016? Of course not. I will illustrate this in the case of the municipality of Novi Knezevac, where there was self-will and haughtiness of municipal managers in spending budget funds, so their most important investments were investments in spa, solarium, cycling routes for which it is impossible today to provide useful permits. Handling of atar roads without construction machines, raising of protective atar roads without seedlings, investing in the purchase of alcoholic beverages, travel representation and much like that. In one day alone, 90 liters of premium brandy were drunk, and the team was spent more annually than on student and student scholarships, home of health and material costs of secondary schools combined. Over a period of 16 years, their authority in community development has been dissuading... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39984	I thank my colleague. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39985	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, changes and additions to the existing Law on Local Self-Government allow for better application of the institutions of direct democracy and greater involvement of citizens in making decisions that are important to their communities. These legislative changes propose a mandatory consultation of citizens regarding the creation of a budget of local self-government in the area of investment. It will also improve the functioning of local communities and their relationship with local self-government units but change will also be in the way of showing the competence of local self-government units, the work of the local assembly, municipal councils and municipal administrations. The aim is also to improve the process of consultation with the interested public in the earliest stages of preparation of the processes, so that through the amendments and additions to the State Administration Act, the public is expected to be informed and involved in the work in the earliest stages of the draft law. And, this time as a doctor and as a representative of the citizens of the four municipalities of Podrinj, please the Ministry of Health and our Government on behalf of the patients Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj and LJubovija and all of Podrinj to assist the Lozni hospital in the purchase of scanners and X-ray apparatus that we need for the diagnostics of pathological conditions, and the need for these reviews is unfortunately increasing every day. Loznica hospital and radiological services have an excellent suit, but we lack the necessary equipment. I ask everyone in charge to help us get the same, so that the quality of our health services is far higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39986	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Mucužic Puzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39987	Thank you. When we talk about improving public health, as my amendment applies, I want to point out that over the past years it has continued its policy of hiring young medical professionals and approving specializations, all in order to form a new generation of doctors. In 2017 more than 3,000 healthcare workers were employed. By 1 May 2018, the Commission of the Government for Employment gave unspecified consent to the employment of 1332 new health workers. At the same time, in 2017, 1617 was approved, and only in February 2018, another 602 specializations from those areas of medicine that are most important and most needed for our health system. T is a total of 2219 new specialists, future medical experts, specialists. On 8 June 2018, the President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, awarded employment contracts for several of the 100 best graduate medical students, of all medical schools in Serbia. Every six months, 50 of the best graduate students will get jobs, specializations, doctoral studies. It should be noted that, due to the absence of good, sustainable and strategic targeted human health policies, in the pre-2014 period, our health system has come into an uninvited situation that pension specialists have no one to replace. In order to overcome such a situation, the Ministry of Health started its employment policy in 2014 and introduced a number of changes in the approval process.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-18-0.u39988	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We will continue tomorrow at 10pm, with the amendment submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic to article 2. [[The session was suspended at 19.00 hours.]]
