ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31180	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Aleksandar Čotric. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Bill on the National Qualification Framework of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend today's session by Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Djamic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and Professor Dr. Bojana Tubic, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Nataša Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Miljan Damjanović, Ružica Nikolić, Nikola Savić, Aleksandra Belačić, Dubravko Bojić, Petar Jojić, Milorad Mirčić, Nemanja Šarović, Aleksandar Šeljić, Marko Žuljić, Nenadlastović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković, Zoran Živović, Marjanka Tevović, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlović, Aleksandra Čabrajić, Zvnamir Šević, Neđa Jovanović, Ivana Dinić, Danica Božidić, Božidar Delić, Tomislav Ljubanovic, Vesna Ivković, Ljubinko Rako Rakonjac, Zvić, Zvković, Zvković, Zvčjanažana Paunić Švić, Vladjanažana Dragić, Mirjanažana Zaković, Mirjan, Mirjan Zaković, Mirjačavić, Mirjavić, Mirjan Zažović, Mirjana Zažović, Miražović, Miražović, Mir, Marija, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Miražović Dr Mihailo Jokić, Radovan Jančić, Milimir Vujadinović, Goran Kovačević, Jelena Mijatović, Dragan Šormaz, Zoran Miletić, Snezana Petrović, Ognje Pantović, Ljiljana Malušić, Radoslav Jović, Dr Darko Laketić, Tijana Davidovac, Tanja Tomašević Damnović, Branka Stamenković, Krsto Janušević, Milija Miletić, Milisav Petronijevic, Mr Dejan Radenović, LJiljana Mihajlović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Gordana Čomić, Natasa Vučović, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Vidinović, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Josip Broz, Marina Čalić, Marina Šjavić Javić, Ivana Žalno Žalić, Javić, Javić, Javić, Javić, Javić, Javić, Drag. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly carried out a principled search, according to Article 157. 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31181	When we looked at and discussed this bill in the SRS parliamentary group, we were thinking whether to propose to amends to delete each individual member or to try to introduce this existing text of the law into some truly legal framework. We've defined ourselves for this other variant because we think that this law really should exist in the legal system, but what you've suggested, two-thirds of this proposal, actually could not be the subject of the law, but more than some sublegal act, instructions, let's say. It's impossible and it's not good that the law goes this far into the little things in that technical sense, and that's why we suggested, you'll also see through the amendments, we'll propose changes to this proposal. We've already started with the title of the law, because your title is unscathed, because your title is too engrossed, described, which is certainly not good. The title of the law should be precise and clear and that every citizen who is not a lawyer, when he reads the title of the law, should know when he hears about that title, that he knows what the subject of the law would be. We have proposed a few amendments and the very title of the law. However, it is the ministers that you accept from our proposals, accept some, because each one is better than this proposal that you, as Government, have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31182	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31183	I'm going to reach out to Mr. Minister for what Mrs. Radeta started. So she explained to you as a lawyer that there was no need to pass the law. For the systematicisation of jobs in Serbia, more precisely 60,000 jobs that occurred after the start of the study under the Bologna recipe against which the SRS was against, and can be done by one sublegal act in order to make it clearer for both future employers and the National Employment Service, because this law itself will absolutely not define all these interests, it will create a framework for this systemisation, but there was no need to pass such a law at all. In order for the citizens of Serbia to be clearer, so we now have a general papazian profession, I have to use that old folk term, you won't have anything against Mr. Minister, because you're a classical student, we've heard a lot about how you've been educated and how you've come to your calling, as well as many colleagues here in the O.R. You now have the situation that this document that was made for the EU market, first of all, that Serbia will never enter, has produced some interests that do not have real knowledge reality. The other is calling, and the other is knowledge. Those who have stayed or had opportunities to work in EU countries where you don't get as easily as you think, work, except for some health professions, where the deficit is primarily in Germany, must know that in companies seeking the basics of knowledge, it is not so much for formal calling, which here can be so messed up that absolutely every company, every employer in Serbia who is going to demand that someone performs concrete action, under this law, will not be able to find adequate housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31184	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to the bill. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31185	Mr. Minister, we, the Serbian Radicals, are closely following your work, both in the Resolute Ministry and here, every word spoken. And it could be concluded, at the very first moment, that you are a man who is prone to amendments to legal regulations and that we cannot make a big complaint there, but very often changes to the legal rules lead to confusion among those where they should be applied. Laws in the field of education and education are laws that touch a large number of people, not only students, not only students and their parents, but, of course, a much wider number of people, and therefore we, respecting the need to reform the educational system in Serbia, felt that this law should intervene even with his name, in the title of this law, in order to make him more successful and more practical. The classification or qualification of these professions should legally formalise what someone has prepared for their education, but there really are a lot of details here that should be regulated by some sublegal acts, not by law. That is why we said at the beginning of this presentation that you will need, unless you accept amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, you will have a very quick need to intervene with the new amendment and supplement law, and not to do so, we suggest that you accept our amendments which will make this law much more applicable and more acceptable in practice. I would ask you, while we are here and when we talk about this, that when we explain or respond to some of our amendments, do you say if you planned, as well as in what way, a large number of objects used in the education system in Serbia and which are now standing abandoned, empty and slowly failing? Have you made any proposals, along with local self-government, to try to protect it from further collapse?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31186	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31187	I already mentioned the other day that it was a network act and started an act on optimizing space. We'll already have all the property written down, where it's already empty and where it's going to happen very quickly. Local self-governments in the Network Act are suggested to provide suggestions for what all these facilities can be used for. In the proposal to create a high school commitment laboratory, it is also very important to have a network of student homes, so we will see from the need, from geographical opportunities, whether it is preschool, whether it is home, whether the facility can be redeployed for student tourism and a series of proposals that we have already discussed with strong self-governments. Also, you know that an act on the Education Strategy was adopted in this House by 2020, where there is also a proposal and an idea to implement single-minded work and full-day teaching, so we will see that everything I've been talking about, and much wider, is being integrated into one rational continent. I'll remind you, and I already said last week, priority is children, and then employees and their roles and functions and employment and, of course, the facilities and assets we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31188	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic to the title of the Bill of Law. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, Serbian Radical Party MPs have pointed to many shortcomings in these draft laws, but as there was not enough time for the unification of the debate, in the context of the debate in particular, we will try to convince you by the arguments to remove these shortcomings. By submitting the amendments, we have proposed solutions that will improve these proposals and that will be specified by certain members of this bill. At first, I would like to point out that the name of the National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia is in itself unclear and that it needs to be specified, as well as that it is too glamour. The Serbian Radical Party MPs have submitted a number of amendments relating to the title itself, and it is no matter which of the solutions you are going to adopt, because all the proposals are more precise and clear than what you are proposing. At the title of the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the title of the proposal to amend the title and read: "The Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework". This proposed amendment is more appropriate and logical, as the national qualification framework itself refers to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31190	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the proposal by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savik, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to this bill and so that the title of this law is amended. As most of my colleagues have said, indeed, the law is unscathed, the name of the law is unprepared, because in the first wave it does not reflect the essence of what it is and the matter it treats. Of course, I'm not going to say that the law is unnecessary, as a man who works in education, I think it certainly takes one of these laws, but this title certainly shouldn't stand. When you look at this law, the first thing that falls into your eyes is that there's an agency here again, like this country and this country don't have enough agencies, so now let's form another agency. We have a lot of administrations anyway, especially in the field of education, and I believe that here this agency that the law provides is completely unnecessary. In addition to the agency, the law provides for some more things, such as the advice of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, which is sectoral and much more. As I said, I think this is unnecessary, first of all, that there are many other bodies in the area of education and whose competencies intertwine. When it comes to intertwining jurisdiction, then certainly no one does what needs to be done, but only does what suits him, and what doesn't suit him tries to transfer to someone else. Here, the minister knows this, but I will remind the public and the MPs that it has long been formed and there is a National Educational Council, then the National Educational Council for Higher Education, the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education, the Council for Science and much more. What is worse, all of these bodies are not chosen by the National Assembly, but chosen by the Government, and I personally think the SRS believes that all of these bodies should be selected in the National Assembly because that way they will see what kind of personnel they are talking about. Surely the MPs know better and the public of Serbia knows better because there are more people here to challenge some candidates, and some to commend if necessary. I'd like to ask the chairman of this time that goes beyond two minutes to count on me from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31192	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) To the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was brought by the People's MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31193	I have submitted an amendment to the title of this bill. In the title of the bill, the words "Republic of Serbia" are deleted. I have, more specifically, always criticised the government's manner of unifying the debate, and especially when it comes to laws that have nothing to do with it, they regulate different areas. A special remark is that in the first place, some laws are put here that are less important. I'm not going to say that this Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is not important, but compared to the Law on Educational Inspection and textbooks, it is incomparable. As far as the title of this bill is concerned, the title itself is a vague entry into the beginning of a certain confusion and confusion, and if they had only an isolated title, the average educated man would not know that it was a law relating to education. I asked my amendment to delete the words "Republic of Serbia", because when we already have a national title, these words are unnecessary and there is no need to repeat something already contained in the title. I will not attribute such a solution to the lexis and Semantic inferiority of our native language to other languages, but I think there have been better solutions, which my party colleagues will through their discussion and confirm.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31194	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Sarovic is not here. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31195	Alexander Seselj's amendment is to make the title of the law, and the title is – Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. So the word "national" is deleted, the title is slightly reduced, because it's some kind of pleonasm to write to the national and the Republic of Serbia. I suppose it is understood, if this is the framework of the qualifications of the Republic of Serbia, that it is a national framework. An interesting explanation is the government's explanation of why this amendment was not accepted. It says – no amendment is accepted, since it does not comply with the concept of the bill. Our question is whether you are revealing to us what we are going to talk about in the course of the debate further according to the amendments, because it is really inappropriate to have such an explanation, unless you are trying to tell us what is true, which is that this is no national framework, that this is a bill that you have received as a warrant from the EU and, yes, it is seen further by terminology, and we will explain to the public Serbia during the day that all these terms have been used and where this is still used in this part of the world. So this has nothing to do with our real needs. The public debate that has been conducted on this bill, or draft, speaks best of it in time, and you know it, Minister, which all the prominent experts in this area did not want to participate in a public debate at all, in order to ignore you and make it clear that what you are doing under the EU order is not in Serbia's interest and that we do not need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31196	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31197	You are in this, or you are in the way since you started to rewrite laws, or proposals from various EU committees, then you are completely unnecessaryly burdened with legal texts by titles, titles, subtitles, and it is completely unnecessary to label them, because they are not laws that will later be law, they are written primarily for lawyers, people from professions, and there is no need to draw everything that says in the title, the title, the title, the title, explain what is the subject of the law, so what are the basic provisions, and if this article is described as the subject of the law, it is normal that these are basic provisions, they are not necessarily transitional and final provisions. Simply, we wanted through these amendments, it may even seem banal in some parts, but we wanted through this bill, somehow it seemed very practical and convenient for the entire government to draw attention to the way the law is written, or the bill, and finally to tell you that MPs are not ignorant, that what you have most of them and that your majority can vote anything that comes to your mind doesn't mean that we who do not know much better and much more professionally to explain what you are proposing and what you should actually be standing in the proposal. Don't hide the essence behind some of the completely irrelevant things, and that's what we want to talk about today, through this law, and probably the chairman will allow it to be a little more flexible debate, because it really is an interesting topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31198	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31199	Mr. Minister, instead of this law, it was more logical for the Serbian Government and your Ministry to address and pay attention to the ranking of universities under the University Law and the way in which you would check the accreditation of individual universities where certain titles are acquired which are now required to enter this national qualification framework, for the simple reason that there are universities in the area of the former Yugoslavia that produce various degrees, and there are many such universities and there are in Serbia. We also know very well the structure of the ruling party, and even that of the bruke, the former president of the state, how a stinted diploma with the help of some colleagues here from the gym he won. We believe that this law itself, those children who have really acquired certain titles and knowledge, will not help to get a certain job. One of the basic criteria for the adoption of this law is justification during a public debate where, according to Radeta colleague, a small reaction was the academic public, because it would be a greater mobility of the workforce, so a few days ago even the figure appeared in some media, so that it sounds pompous, that right away 2,000 new jobs would be opened, only to pass this law. Now, Mr. Minister, how are those educational staffs going to be treated compared to these new ones that, say, work in high school? He's a class teacher in high school who has a knowledge frame from 20 years ago and this new one. There are a lot of questions to be answered, but since there's no time, I'll proceed with the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31200	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31201	Compared to this law with the countries in the environment, above all in the countries of the former Yugoslavia, we come to the fact that it is not the National Qualifications Framework of Serbia, but a qualification framework as requested by the EU market and that it is required by systematic calls on the Bologna Declaration and again we come to this, Mr Minister, that basically future employer, here is the example, and there is one colleague who is a doctor of electrical engineering, but he's probably on a normal walk, which is said to have ended up in regular studies in electrical engineering, and now you have a situation that someone has studied, completed basic studies in mathematics, that he was in master's studies at some completely different university, in information, and then he came to the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and there doctored. What's that somebody gonna be for a future employer, that's a big question now? You have an even more drastic example, that someone completed basic biology studies, that after that he went to master studies, which Bolonja gave him for law school, and obtained those calls from pedagogy and eventually decided that due to the improvement of his information knowledge, which today is imperative for XXI Vec, he finished his doctoral studies at electrotechnics. These are really key issues for future employers, which this law will not resolve, because the point is what the employer is looking for and what the labour market in Serbia has to offer today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31202	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31203	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group has submitted 31 amendments to the proposed law and this law may make sense that some advances, in terms of reforming education in the previous six years, have been made in the Republic of Serbia. So, this law is true that it represents compliance with European standards and European regulations, but in this case, when we talk about education, we want to set up a roof on the house without even building walls. What I'm saying is that for the last six years, we haven't been able to put our education system in the Republic of Serbia on healthy feet. So we haven't created a system that will somehow be able to assess the value and credibility of all those diplomas that are being obtained in Serbia. We have had the opportunity to see in previous years what it looks like with a number of purchased and plagiarized diplomats who have the same value and importance in our education system and our Republic, as well as those people who have acquired the right to call and knowledge in the relevant institutions. So, they're all in the same basket and whether someone got an education at an enco private college, or bought a diploma, plagiarized a doctorate, whatever he did, he had the exact same weight as someone who had to put up a lot of trouble for it. It's something that's a problem that and this law that's now proposed can't produce results. So it is not enough just to agree with the European regulations of our existing legislation, but to do something about it. Absolutely nothing has been done in the previous six years in the area of the education system. I'll remind you that the children who were born when you came to power today are six years old, they go to school next year and start again on an education system that won't be able to guarantee them a bright future. Here in this law, what is particularly problematic, you also introduce the Qualifications Agency, although one of the promises was still made in 2012, that the number of agencies will be reduced, that the number of working bodies paid by budget funds will be reduced. So, not that you haven't cut down, you're still increasing the number of agencies and the number of working bodies, and this will be an additional cost to the Republic of Serbia and to someone who will still be able to... In fact, it will be good for those who will work in this agency and who will receive some compensation, without any criteria who will be able to work there, how much pay they will be, how much employment they will be. You can't see that in this law here. Also, as regards the National Qualifications Framework Council of the Republic of Serbia, there are no criteria for selecting members, and this Council is also important because it proposes qualifications standards for all levels of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this law, if it were seriously discussed, could make sense, but you want to continue with the practice we had in the past few months, or in the previous two sessions. It continues to practice to avoid serious discussions on legal proposals. Today, the SNS has submitted more than 380 amendments under this law. So, the government MPs are submitting amendments to the government's proposed law? This has never happened until the moment you avoided a budget debate last year in the same way, in the last session, and now you want the 380 amendments that you submit to your government to discuss and work in this House. So these are important laws. It's about education. It's about the future of our children. Don't ruin this institution's reputation. Do not trust citizens to sit in these benches, to represent their interests, to mock them in this way. Don't continue this practice. I'm going to suggest to my colleagues that if this practice continues with pointless amendments, where you are competing here who will be more loyal to your party leadership, where you organise a reading badge contest, if this continues...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31204	Comrade Alexich, can you talk about your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31205	... There's no point in participating in this kind of debate. I'm going to suggest at all in the opposition that he doesn't participate in the work, because that would probably suit you the most, that we leave the gym, and then you read each other the compositions that you've got...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31206	I give you a warning, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31207	... You brag and say how smart you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31208	I give you a warning. You insult the dignity of your colleagues by calling their discussions by reading literary works. Do you want me to explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31209	I, Mr. Arsic, will remind you today when we hear some of these works...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31210	I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31211	You can say as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31212	You called their discussions literary papers again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31213	What's the basis of the warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31214	I said, you have again violated the dignity of your fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31215	In what way? What's that insult if I said someone wrote a literary paper? Is that an insult?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31216	I take your word for it, colleague Alexic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31217	A few notes, ladies and gentlemen. We already talked about it when we had a debate here in principle. It's a shame that some only show up when they seem to feel rested, sleepy, or when they think it's appropriate, and then they miss out on everything they haven't heard in the debate in principle... What do we do now? How can he call his colleagues sleepless? ) On the subject of these amendments, we have already given an answer, likely to hear those who are now getting it. So three times as many amendments have been suggested by those sitting on the other side of the hall and whatever they call our amendments you sitting on the other side of the hall, whatever they say, they're three times better, they're more successful. Three times as many participate in the way they describe it themselves, they. So that's what you should consider. When they criticize our amendments, let them look at their own. The good news, which we also reported to the National Assembly, is a pity that some were not there to hear it, absolutely none of the SNS MPs proposed an amendment with the contents of "Santa's Santa is descending down a series of chimneys, wearing promenades and driving a sledgehammer", and it is precisely such amendments, probably professional and serious, that those who give themselves the right to comment on ours and that should be known and kept in mind when other people are commenting. As for the question of devising something, anything, I have answered it here and very politely, collegiately – it is impossible for us to reason anything when we talk about discussions on the other side. Am I saying that because there's a prerequisite for any devising that there's some sense there first or not? Those who say that in this way have to think about it for themselves. I'm not going to answer that, but I'm going to talk about some courtship, talk about someone's impression, does the one who mentioned it mean, as he said, the criteria of competence, education and all, does he mean when it comes to, for example, the case of Jeremic Vuk? This man, as far as I know, by no standard, by any education or competence, has he been given the opportunity to come to the highest state place that because of the decision of a class elder somewhere there? Are those examples we have in mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31218	Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic: I'm reporting for word.) I'm sorry, colleague Alexic. You should have taken care of that. You have no right to do that. (Miroslav Aleksic: How can I not? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to do anything anymore. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31219	I am going back to the essence of what we are here today, and that is a sentence said by the MP to regret the generation that is now going to have a bad education in Serbia, I think on the contrary. Today begins the signing of champions, I congratulate them, all families, grandparents, that great day in their lives, and on the other hand, it is the reformed first grade of elementary school that will work on a whole new concept and we will be very pleased to understand what was adopted in the system law on the basis of education and education in the past autumn. So, both the national qualification framework and the curricula in the new, plan and programme and reform first, fifth and first high school. So, kids stop learning content, repeat and bug and start learning concepts and apply acquired knowledge. That's what I've been talking about since 2000, and now it's being realized, and I have to say for the sake of the profession, that it's fortunate that the first generation of the program is beginning as it was supposed to be a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31220	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Miroslav Aleksic: I'm reporting for word.) You have no right, colleague Alexic, you really have no right. The word is from a colleague, Marko Atlagic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31221	Dear Vice President, I am shocked by the statements of some MPs today when they found that nothing has been done in the last six years in the area of reform of education and education. The truth is completely different. Our follow-up, educators, they know that the former regime has brought education and education into the greatest abyss in the history of education and pedagogical ideas. What's done? I ask the opposition gentlemen whether it is true or not that Srdjan Verbic has also initiated the president of the state's dual education, and Minister Sarcevic stepped deep into the reform of dual education? Is it true or not? I'm shocked by the statements, denying the previous MPs. I know they were against the dual introduction of education, it's reform. Is it true that the high school has not been touched by the arrival of Sarcevic as minister and is now being reformed? Is it true that teaching has been updated, in some ways new teaching subjects are introduced from information and security, for the first time in 20 years, is a merger between the Ministry of Education and Science, where educational content is talked about in elementary school? Furthermore, the material foundation of the school has been improved, 160 schools whether they are newly built or repaired, and I ask them whether it is true or not? Furthermore, the national qualification framework has not been adopted for 20 years. I'm sorry that my colleague comes out, he doesn't want to hear it, but let me finish, such claims can only be made by a man who doesn't know the minimum education and education of our system or by a man who is sorry that we are introducing reforms. No wonder he resented the minister last week for saying the word "effectiveness", and that is what progress is. We would resent it if it did not say the word "effectiveness", it is good that we want more efficient, we introduce more effective education and education. I'm sorry for this intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31222	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj submitted together to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31223	My colleagues from the Club of Independent MPs and colleagues and I decided to go back to an old good practice, which is to improve the laws that can be better and we did it with almost all the laws that are on the agenda and I think we did it. Here, the minister is a witness that in one law of 40 amendments we have given, 19 is accepted and everyone deals with improving the text, so that the text is closer to the spirit of the Serbian language and that it is fully understood to the citizens, because it is important that citizens have a full understanding of how some law is implemented. So, all the amendments we submitted had this objective, despite the Law on Electronic Business, I think we got at least one accepted amendment in each other's laws, and that's good. I would like it to become a custom to accept the opposition's assistance properly, not to be grateful, nothing like that, it's our job, and that's how it's supposed to be done, and then it's the way, maybe the beginning of the trip to court, that those amendments that we've seen have become fashionable for colleagues on the other hand to give them in the last few sessions, to get out of that job. There are enough reasons to fix the laws the way my colleagues and colleagues from my club have done in this session. I call on all colleagues to deal with normal amendments aimed at improving the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31224	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31225	The Honored Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Amendment to the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, which I have submitted - Article 1(1), amends: "This law establishes a national qualification framework in the Republic of Serbia as a system for the adjustment of qualifications, purposes, objectives and principles, types and levels of qualifications, means of acquiring qualifications, descriptions of knowledge, skills, skills and professional attitudes for each level of qualifications, bodies and organisations responsible for the application and development of NOKS, quality assurance in application, integration with the European Qualifications Framework". Namely, the amendment that I have proposed more precisely, i.e. more comprehensively determines how qualifications are acquired, a description of knowledge, skills, skills and professional attitudes for each level of qualifications. In Article 1 The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia does not specify that attitudes refer to professional views, because attitudes can also be personal. In order to avoid free and incorrect interpretation of the provision, that is, this article, I have suggested that, in Article 1(1), in addition to terminology, more precise definition of the professional attitude be carried out. In this way, any abuses would be avoided in practice and, as I have stated, inadequate interpretations and application would be avoided. In voting day, I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31226	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31227	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. This amendment to Article 1(1). The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, as already said, wanted to specify the provisions of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would say that this is a new law and, as our colleague Zarko Obradovic said, it was due in 2010. The government and Minister Sarcevic should be commended because they have managed to prepare this law and propose it for adoption. This law achieves the comparability and visibility of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Serbia with qualifications acquired in other countries. The law covers all levels of education and occupation, regardless of the type of acquisition, whether it is carried out through formal, informal or information education, or regardless of life and work experience. In this way, our education system becomes a functional part of the European educational space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31228	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. A bill on the National Qualifications Framework, where I have asked my amendment to define in a better and more precise way certain terms representing the subject matter of this law. However, the government has not accepted this amendment, although the SRS has submitted a lot of amendments to this topic, because we are convinced that the concepts relating to the subject of the law are better defined in the way we have suggested, but well, what is there. Let me just say something about the subject of the law. Among other things, the law provides for legal deadlines to which certain things must be regulated or adopted. For example, the deadline for setting up a council provides for it to be three months, the time limit for setting up the agency for nine months, while the deadline setting out that sublegal acts must be regulated for a year. I personally think that this is where it went the other way, that it was first necessary to bring in sublegal acts that would arrange this matter, and only later to form advice and the agency. Here's, let's say, this advice that we're talking about here is 25 members, with the fact that nowhere in the law says what the advice's about and how and by which criteria they're chosen. I guess it's clear that the law would have to be brought first by sublegal acts, and then agencies and advice, but it seems to me that there's been an accounting here to take care of the people of the ruling majority, and the sublegal acts themselves are in the second plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31230	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31231	Only for the purpose of supplementation: the competence of the council is clearly described in Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31232	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Ivana Dinic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31233	I thank you, Chairman. In the spirit of something already said at today's session, any discussion must be based on improving the bill's proposals, and thus improving the quality of the law is precisely the motive for submitting this amendment. In fact, this amendment really wants to contribute to avoiding, in a practical sense, any possible doubt, any possible dilemma, and to avoid what is otherwise present with us when it comes to the practical application of the law, which is an unequal practice and a different interpretation of certain norms of the law. The normisation of the law is a very important segment when the law is passed and if any norm does not have what it should have, which is that it has its own meaning, that it has its meaning and that this meaning and meaning in the practical sense of words does not cause dilemmas and does not cause different understandings, then we are in the field that the law will be practically applicable in full capacity. When we speak of Article 1(1) of this law, we have taken the view in the SPS parliamentary group that surplus terms, excess meanings, too many words really have no place in the law. In a particular case, we were heading towards attitude one, so that an adjective substitute was deleted, which is its purpose, its objectives and its principles. Enough was the purpose, objectives and principles because it is known to be the law to which both the purpose and the objectives and principles are concerned. That is why I believe that this amendment should be accepted in order to become an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31234	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31235	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. I have to read the article – this law establishes the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia as a qualification system, its purpose, undermining these words its purpose, just before fellow Jovanovic spoke about, goals and principles, types and levels of qualifications, ways of gaining qualifications, descriptions of knowledge, skills, and attitudes, in the following text: "descriptors". I also underline this word "descriptors". I have to point out that because of this number of qualifications, I'm not sure, but I've heard somewhere that there are over two thousand qualifications, that in this number of these titles and qualifications, even employers don't get along and have some ambiguities and chills. I have to take advantage of the opportunity and point to the excessive use of foreign words. I appeal that, wherever possible, those foreign words are replaced with Serbian synonyms to preserve both language color and language wealth, in order to resist a great flood and the rise of foreign influence, adaptation and reconciliation with the EU. I asked the amendment to replace "his purpose" with the words "his task", simply to fix the text of the proposed law. I consider the amendment more acceptable and more appropriate to the spirit of the law, although you have stated in your explanation that this amendment is not to be accepted – since it does not contain a language, essential and meaningful amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31236	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31237	We, Mr. Minister, intervened because we put the word "principles" in the title of the law and we think it is far more correct because Serbia must prescribe principles that will value knowledge, titles and qualifications. This is what we are saying for reasons why a problem can arise in the nosetriification of diplomats from the former Yugoslav republics, and here I primarily think of students, mostly Serbs, from Republika Srpska who have acquired their appointments at universities in BiH, as well as students from Montenegro who will seek here and compete for certain jobs because this process that will be implemented after the adoption of this law, and you yourself are aware of it, is very long and will be slow. Not necessarily what the employer is looking for, but what was offered as a qualification and formal calling to meet his needs. Because of the flood of these various diplomas and new titles after the Bologna schooling process, you now have a situation that someone really wants to have a master's degree in some studies and can't, be honest, so say it, someone who's mastered the same rank according to the old system, or has to be in higher rank, rather than one who's master of some vocational studies in Bologna's new degree, according to the Bologna way of learning. It was realistic to accept this amendment and to establish principles in Serbia on the basis of which qualifications and titles will be valued.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31238	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31239	The SRS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. Article 1 defines the subject matter of this law, and we have proposed a change of attitude 1. By writing, rather than saying, "description and knowledge" in the law, a closer description of knowledge. We of the SRS are of the opinion that the proposed amendment should be adopted, as the amendment is more precise and would contribute to the improvement of the text of the law. The adoption of the amendment would create an obligation to describe knowledge, skills, skills from the attitudes of the level of qualifications, that is, for all descriptors of the level of qualifications. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, the Proposer wrote that the aim of this law is, above all, to create preconditions for the systematic adjustment of the national classification framework. It would be good if there was a true and true will for this matter to be systemically arranged, but it's also important, i.e. much more important to pay attention to concrete application in practice. I say this first of all, because across Serbia we have a phenomenon that in most public enterprises in many jobs employees with inadequate qualifications work. Public enterprises remain an instrument to provide jobs for people without the necessary qualifications. So we suggest that each level and sublevel of qualifications be closer, i.e. accurate and clearly written, knowledge, skills, skills and attitudes of the level of qualifications. If that were to prevent it, it would be to what extent a mass phenomenon observed in public enterprises, that unprofessional people work in well-paid jobs, we could say that this amendment has produced results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31240	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vesna Ivković and Ljubinko Rakonjac together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Ivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31241	The Honored Chairman, the Honored Ministers with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 1(1). The bill, the words from the bets - are deleted. The amendment proposes erasing those words because we believe that personal attitudes should not be in the form of descriptors, i.e. criteria for the assessment of qualifications. The area of education is a very important resource, both for the Republic of Serbia and for the EU, because quality education is directly linked to the economic development and social cohesion of a country. Education is the future of a country and improves the quality of life of its citizens. In particular, when it comes to this law, the National Qualifications Framework Act, it is late, but as our people say, better ever than anyone, for that reason all praises the Ministry of Education. The problems that this law needs to solve are partly due to the lack of a legal framework for their resolution, but partly because the existing legal framework has not sufficiently provided conditions for setting up an education system that is in line with the needs of the economy. The National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia is an instrument that regulates the area of qualifications and links with the labour market and its needs. The establishment of NOX will define what each individual can and knows to do according to acquired qualifications. Benefit will also be achieved by employers and individuals, and thus society in general. The application of this law will cover all levels and types of qualifications regardless of how knowledge is acquired, whether formal or informal education, information learning, life experience or work experience and independent of the age of life in which qualifications are acquired. Finally, education should be seen as a living system, according to our professor Zarko Obradovic, who is subject to change and constant innovation. The establishment of NOKS also enables the evaluation of learning that can be measured and evaluated independently of the way it has been acquired and its integration with the European qualification frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31242	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Vladan Zagradjanin. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Paunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31243	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, this law is, as Col. Wesna said, perhaps a little longer waiting, but it's never too late. He arrived at the right time. He edits what was necessary when it comes to qualifications at the level of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is also a good link with the European Qualifications Framework and at international conferences that promote and assess the education system of the Republic of Serbia. What we tried to define with this amendment, a colleague of Zagradian and I, is actually in Article 1(1). A bill where words – and attitudes would be replaced by words – and professional attitudes. Such an amendment would specify that personal attitudes are not treated as a descriptor of qualifications, but strictly professional views of individuals needed above all to evaluate the acquired level of qualifications. In that sense, we think that the law that we have heard a lot of praise in the debate in principle and indeed is for the praise of both the law and your efforts, Mr. Minister, we are nevertheless the attitude that such an amendment might precisely define this notion which could possibly in practice be somehow misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31244	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Mirjana Dragas and Marjana Maras together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? She's a colleague of Dragash's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31245	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, we have also submitted a parliamentary group and I personally amendment to this member of the law first and foremost, and that has already been said here, that in the law not only in this article, but also in other places, foreign words are used. We felt that it was necessary, especially in those laws passed by the Ministry of Education, to use domestic words, because our home word is the closest thing to us, it reflects the wealth of our language. Of course, we do not at all dispute that language is a dynamic structure, that it changes from day to day. We are even witnesses to the daily use of both the profession and the science, but also the daily speech of words that are foreign and unknown. For many of them, there are excuses, but many of them, unfortunately, break the language we speak, and it is especially present in children who use various electronic networks and simply lose all the rules that apply to the Serbian language and our grammar. That is why we felt that there was justification to suggest that in this case we must also be guided by this one general principle, that in all places where our words can be used they can be used and used. When it comes to this, I think that in the adoption of laws in this ministry, but also in other ministries, state bodies, other institutions, and especially in the media, there must be more and more importance in the position of a lecturer who has to influence what language is spoken and that language is learned from small legs, that in the hearing of the child there is a way to speak properly. When it comes to the lecturers themselves it is known, I will only briefly note that their position is neither in the country, but abroad today is not good, it is not in the proper attention of our country and this is the consequence of not doing this work of the Ministry but in the back ten years. So, basically, we of the vast number of lecturers that we had abroad, in which the Serbian-Croatian language was taught at the time, today we have closed lecerates, to learn Serbian language in an increasing number, and unfortunately where the state is shown to care about it, these former lecturers were largely taken over by the Croatian state by caring for the preservation of Croatian language. In this regard, I will briefly mention the natural position of the Cyrillic which is important to us, although of course it implies in private use one equality and one and the other letter, but in this case I think about the state letters and the state regulation of the law that it needs more attention in the future than it is, of course, present. When it comes to alone, just to point out that I will use, the Honored Chairman, a little time from the parliamentary group, the qualification framework belongs to that group of Members who thinks that this national framework was necessary and that it was high time to bring it in practice today, we have a huge number of qualifications that are objectively regulated in the list and in the nomenclature of former occupations. Many of these professions have already been overcome, and there is a need on the labour market for other new interests that are not introduced into the national single system, and this law should now provide conditions to bring this together into a single system in which, most importantly, the education system and only the labour market and its needs would be linked. That is why it is well planned for this connection to be dynamic, to be so on a daily basis necessary and thus to provide the very necessary living life that must exist both in the education process and in the employment process. The dynamics and changes in this sphere are very large and many of these occupations 10 years ago that exist today, did not exist, nor were they known to us. Thus, we must move forward, to create this nomenclature of occupation that will be and to meet all that the development of science and technology must bring in at this time. Serbia must not remain on the periphery of events in this regard, as major technological changes are daily and introduced computer skills, so they take place on a daily basis. So, when it comes to the nomenclature of interest, I don't think we should be skeptical, or pessimistic, or shut up in the old frameworks, but rather go in terms of developing new interests, as well as developing concepts that define them with all of our country, when we talk about that in this time, we need programmers of course, and this is already common knowledge and the state is investing in this direction significant resources and efforts, but at the same time we need to know that both chefs and auto mechanics are needed. Therefore, the education system must be such that it is also directed to the survival and maintenance of the professions that are necessary and that are standard for us from before in everyday life, but at the same time to enable development in accordance with new technologies and new skills. We also need to know that significant resources are being invested in education and that we always have that in mind, that these significant resources are investing in education, of course, and the state by providing all forms of free education and by stimulating both higher and higher education, which is very significant. At the same time, investment is important and families who invest in their children's education in a large number of cases give up significant material resources. In this sense, we must not, as a state, allow both children and the young world to go to other countries to work, because this results in double damage, and that is the total outflow of that capital that is included and spent in the very system of education itself, but what is even worse and with much greater consequences of leaving the young world from our country. It is already known, when it comes to the interests of taking what systems exist today in the world, what technologies and what needs in relation to the modern development of life, that we can soon meet the interests that are not in us, which are spoken of in the world, which is very quickly, so how do dynamic changes go, and we have seen that in the last 10 years, the occupations that have not existed today, that in the next 10 years, they become quite new to us, and we cannot assume that they will be. For example, this mentions interests, such as genetic designer, stress programmer, employee health manager, privacy consultant, social worker on social networks, epidemiologist, wellness manager for seniors and so on. Are we ready today for all of this both termologically and technologically and legally? That's why the national framework that we're bringing today creates elemental conditions to introduce a certain order and thus create a base for exactly what we can expect in the next period. And, finally, if we were locked up in today's knowledge and technology and qualifications frameworks, we would be condemned to a major lag behind the Serbian state in the system of education and the system of interest that exists today in the world. If the principle had been managed by Dosei and Vuk in its own time, I don't think everything that happened 200 years ago in the development of education in Serbia would have existed. Serbia would not then, at the end of the 18th and 19th centuries, be the haven of a single swing of education and work, and so on, would not talk today about the values we have achieved at that time. So I think that in today's education there should be modernity, one openness to Europe and the world, the application of new knowledge, the application of new technologies, the continuous improvement and catching steps forward, to ensure that the young world is, of course, highly educated and technologically trained, while at the same time retaining what is in our system in the value of history and knowledge, especially our national values and our national culture. In this way, we manage to provide what is rightfully right for our Serb community, our culture and at the same time to ensure that there is no lagging behind in any way, when it comes to the nomenclature of occupation, in the education and education of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31246	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31247	I have to agree with you, that's true. We're not just chasing IT experts, we need profiles everywhere the economy says, of course, chefs, mechanics and everything else. It's no news or secret. The registration plan is issued, the high school later works on this methodology, and we talked about it Thursday when the government was hosting. I have to draw attention to the badge I'm wearing and my team, which is the position of the Serbian government, today we mark the Day of Support for people with autism. What's very important and what I wanted to mention most, they're lecturers. You have well noticed, however, that mantra that the Croats picked us up, is not exactly like that and we managed to stabilize that story by forming a team at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, we invited people from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. That's when we started dealing thoroughly with these issues, so it's something that requires reciprocity, but where it's not there, our interest is that we have a lecturer, no matter what the other side doesn't have. So we started designing that model and looking for a different model of how it was financed. So, in the world it is not unrecognizable and Croatian as Croatian and Serbian as Serbian. No one's defending it, it's up to us, and I think it's the same theme that's been abandoned for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31248	Thank you. You can only pick up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31249	Thank you. I think that for the general public it is of great importance and I think that at all the more significant meetings in the country and abroad, of course, it should point to the importance of keeping it, especially now that the time when the state has shown this particular topic is in this way due attention, which I think is to have one long-term significant positive consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31250	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31251	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment that we have brought together by Parliamentarian Mirjana Dragas and I, has been rejected by reason that it is not essential but rather a different language formulation. It is precisely because of this language formulation that we have submitted this amendment, because I want to point out the need to cultivate Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. The proposal for a law on the national framework of the classification of the Republic of Serbia is thought to build on already existing legislation, and we of the SPS parliamentary group also consider that the continuity of the law in the term of office when our authorised representative was also Minister Prof. Zarko Obradovic, when he passed seven laws despite the laws and the Education Strategy, to continue with the continuity and adoption of the laws that you have explained here in the Assembly. What I would like to commend, Your Honor, is that, in addition to this legislative regulation, specifically in the Vrbas municipality, it is the reconstruction of many schools. You were present when we visited the papers, the reconstruction was the primary school "Peter Petrović Njegos", it was the Office for Public Investment Management. In addition to this school, we received funding for two more, one is the main school "Jovan Jovanovic" in Zmajev, and the second is "Zarko Zrenjanin" high school in Vrbas. It's a high school that's one of the oldest educational institutions of this kind in our country. In addition, with the rural resources that we received from the province's budget for the rehabilitation of sanitary nodes and for investing in energy efficiency, indeed all praises of the Minister. In addition to the legal regulations and the amendments to the laws and new laws you make, he cares about how and in what conditions our children attend school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31252	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31253	Thank you. I would like to vote "for" to support the amendment of my colleague Mirjana Dragas and Marijana Maras and to dedicate from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group several minutes to this extremely interesting topic, precisely because it is the Ministry of Education. Namely, colleagues suggested that the word “descriptors” be replaced by the word “descriptors”, arguing the use of foreign words or forms of foreign words in our language, especially in the laws. Why am I going to vote yes and why do I support it? Because the first, for example, thing, would, for example, be “transscriptors” to us as “prescriptors, ” so it would be an insult to the transcriptor. But I think the subject is very important, because here we see what we have a problem with. Language is a miracle. And if you have words in another language that you can't translate naturally into your own language and into your own society, that means that either that there isn't even in imagination, like witches, fairies and all that, but it doesn't exist in reality either. The illustration of this is the word “acauntabilites. ” You can't translate that in one word, because you have to describe what it means to someone in public affairs. Who's he answering to? As well as descriptors, as well as the words that stand perfectly natural within the European qualification framework, because there's a way of knowing who's doing what, they suddenly appear here. I don't know if the best word is "descriptor," but I know it has to be the theme of your ministry, our committees, in public, what are the words in our language for things that don't exist in reality or in imagination, but we want to create them. When you look from that point of view, I hope you understand my argument as to why I'm going to vote for the amendment, especially because the argument says it's not accepted, because it's not essential. And then the other one doesn't get accepted because it's essential. I don't have a ton of criticism for those who write the law, nor for all of us who think we can come up with a better solution, but in the years ahead, we're going to have this European Union project language, which I've been criticising for years, because you can't understand when they start speaking in the project language, because that's what someone's saying is comfortable, for sure, we're going to have a problem with that language in the European Union's project language, as we have a problem, let's say, with this word "descriptors". If we know what they will do, then why can't we find a word in our language that will make it clear what they will do? I don't think my vote "for" will change anything in the ministry's view, but these are important things, at least when it comes to the ministry. But otherwise, the style and language of the laws is important to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31254	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Stefana Miladanovic and MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miladinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31255	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers, co-workers from the Ministry of Education, are concerned with a technical amendment that sets out that legal provision in a slightly different way. However, despite the fact that this amendment has not been accepted, I would take this opportunity to praise not only this law but also the other two laws in the field of education, which are being promoted, promoted and assessed by the education system in the Republic of Serbia. In light of the government's reasoning, we see that the government has adopted 17 amendments in this law and I believe that they will improve the text of the law itself, because this Law on the National Qualifications Framework which, as we have had the opportunity to hear, we have been waiting for decades in the National Assembly, is innovative, it connects learning and acquisition of knowledge and puts into office work and employment opportunities in one systematic way. As I said, this is an extremely important law, which will certainly affect the economy as well as the professional development of each individual in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31256	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31257	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I would say that the title of the law is quite appropriate and that it accurately specifies the essence of the matter it deals with. Secondly, I am a member of 1st absolutely introduces us into the matter of this law and defines it in a precise way. It is very important that we, this law, will regulate a national framework that is part of the European Qualifications Framework, and that is the only way we can be integrated into the European area of education, because without it, we have nothing to look for. We must be a unique part of that space. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you have our support in everything you do to imitate both the legislative regulation and the entire system of education with what is education in a wider area, or European space. When it comes to this amendment, it is also, as is said, technical nature and perhaps it contributes to the language accuracy of the formulation that explains the subject matter of the law. In fact, it states that in Article 1(1), the word “level of qualification” is added to the word “specific”, which would be the level of qualifications. I don't think that's essential now. This Article 1 quite well explains the bill, which he deals with and, in any case, whether you adopt it or not, you will have our support, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31258	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1. The draft law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia defines the subject matter of the law itself, which, in addition to setting out the purpose, objectives and principles of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, then types, levels and ways of gaining qualifications, covers and forms of new organisations responsible for the application and development of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 1. The bill of law applies to these organizations right now. This amendment in Article 1(1). We're looking for a bill to delete the text. So, the organisations responsible for the application and development of money, precisely because the said organisation would be just another institution that would unnecessarily burden the budget. The amendment we have submitted is in line with the SRS' position, which is clear and unequivocal when it comes to the formation of various organisations and state agencies that only spend huge money on Serbian citizens. We are against the formation of this organisation, because in the field of education there are also too many and various institutions whose responsibilities overlap which would create additional confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31260	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to make this text of Article 1. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia freed excess and unnecessary and pointless words. When I say pointless words, I certainly don't mean anything ugly, but words that don't get anything in this bill. My colleagues and I from the SRS have submitted several amendments to this article to do so. The strategy provides for certain objectives, the subject of the law does not have to be defined that way, so we specifically suggested that one part be deleted here. Ensuring the quality of the gynox business with the EU, etc. Mr Minister, very often you mention the need for co-operation with the EU, it is your path, it is a wandering path that we, of course, have never supported and we do not see the importance of it now. If you're saying that we need to comply with our law with the needs or with some other Member States of the continent of Europe and we could accept that, but there's one thing that's being noticed about us, it may not be you, but you rarely, I can't say for sure, but you mention co-operation with the Russian Federation. Do one analysis, you and colleagues from the Ministry of Economy, with the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, perhaps with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where Serbian citizens go in search of the belly for bread, and perhaps we should bring our nomenclature of these interests into line with the needs of those countries. How can our workers learn something and apply it to us in Serbia, so perhaps they can look for work in those other countries. Pay attention to those who have witnessed Serbian friends, not only those who have never brought us anything good, nor have they thought of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31262	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Daniela Stojadinović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Stojadinović's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31263	The Honored Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, on the proposal for a law on the national framework of qualifications of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(1) where, in advance of words - and interconnections, the word - alignment is added. Since as a parliamentary group we have worked thoroughly on the framework and establishing true terminology, as counterpart Dragas has said, we are trying to make sure that the Serbian language has its primate in defining these laws. I have submitted this amendment, as an amendment is made and complemented by the precision of that legislative provision, by the introduction as a task of NOX and the obligation to comply with the European Qualifications Framework, which will be necessary in the coming period, when we become part of the European education system. The fact is, indeed, that this law is quite late, eight or nine years, and for every commendation, Mr. Sarčević, is your work and work in this period since you are a minister, since I have experience from local self-government, where I have followed the work of several ministers, including our esteemed professor Obradovic, who was our authorised promoter. I must say, I have a strong impression, given that as a minister, you are always exposed to some criticism, and I think the greatest pleasure is that your colleague, former minister, praises you and gives full support to what you do. Since I come from local self-government, the Svilajnac municipality, where I could follow the work in education, I would commend the efforts and your understanding in terms of school renovation. In the course of this year, the renovation of our large elementary school "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj", and since as a municipality we are very much engaged in education, it is an opportunity to say, although it has been heard, the award received by our Agricultural-Veterinary School with the House of Students. Given what I've said, I hope that this cooperation will be good and future. I suggest that the MPs in the voting day plead for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31264	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Radeta's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31265	You are here a national qualification framework, you connected, so you wrote with the framework of European qualifications, which is absolutely incompatible, aside from the fact that we Serbian radicals don't want anything to do with the EU, and that for a completely different concept and approach to solving all state problems, through integration with the Russian Federation, but also you who are willing to give everything for Euro-integration, you should be aware that this framework, our national qualification framework, cannot be linked to the European framework, for a simple reason, which is a completely different way of education there than it is with us. We don't understand how you could write that you couldn't accept the amendment, because it's not in line with the concept of the bill. Then what's the concept of the bill? If this is true, we can't see what the concept of the bill is. You know, we have different professions, different qualifications, and you know very well how unfortunately diplomas are obtained in Serbia today, and every white house along the highway has a board that says that some college is just stopping by and it's a nice job to finish, and it comes out with a diploma, and then when you ask someone exactly what I'm called that so-called. College and what exactly his diploma is called, of course, he has no idea. It's true and it's a fact. That's something, there, yes, Toma Nikolic, he first made it public, but he has them to Mircic, except for Tom Nikolic and who are now as political importance, who are now in political and state functions and don't shout, that's a fact. Unfortunately, it would be, and I wish it wasn't, but you in the Ministry are not doing anything to get in the way of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31266	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31267	It is necessary to erase this position of Article 1, Article 1, and I must really do so for the public to say what that position is. The termins expressed in this law in grammatical male origin mean the natural male and female species of the person to which it applies. This is such nonsense that it's amazing. You're really showing up here in front of the National Assembly with completely unvulnerable suggestions. How will you, in particular, and it is generally in every law senseless and unnecessary, use in this bill what you have provided for in this article, when we do not yet have that law and I hope that we will not have any discussion about and advocated by Zorana Mihajlovic, about any equities in the names of professions, etc., about some working equality in that sense, so we will probably have a fireman instead of a fireman, since we already have an MP, although in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia precisely and clearly says that the Assembly has 250 MPs? Of course, it's obviously not binding on you, and then you've predicted in this law, and this is kind of routine for you, and I don't think any of you are even thinking about this kind of proposal, because you're putting this in every law you can get. You cannot put this provision in place within this National Qualifications Framework, because there is no law, I repeat, which Zorana Mihajlovic advocates. If he, God forbid, is brought in, then it is possible to apply him here as well. Without that, he can't do it before. This has to be erased, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31268	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Filipovski's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31269	Thank you, Chairman. And in the debate, I have pointed out in principle, and I will repeat today that it is very important that the National Qualifications Framework clearly define what skills and skills an individual possesss after acquired education and what kind of work he can do and, which is the aim of the National Qualifications Framework, to link qualifications and standards of interest and to present it through the registry. That is precisely why I have suggested that Article 1 of this Law add to Article 3 which reads: "The national qualification framework affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving human resources. “ The amendment further defines the subject itself, i.e. The jurisdiction of this law because human resources are one of our greatest potentials. There is a Staff Management Service in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I therefore believe that the amendment that I have proposed is just an opportunity to set new standards in other institutions that, in my opinion, are not sufficiently concerned with human resources in many, and has often been neglected. When I cite an example of institutions that are not sufficiently concerned with human resources in the Republic of Serbia, I would mention as the best example of some of the local self-government. I think we must always bear in mind that only good and motivated personnel, adequately deployed, provide the efficiency needed for wider social development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31270	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31271	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I am also inclined to support this amendment and a series of dozens of amendments which, essentially, MPs suggest an explanation of what it is that the National Qualifications Framework should achieve in the Republic of Serbia. My colleague Dubravka Filipovski spoke about improving human resources and here I return to the language again, whether the human resources, why the resource is ours, why it is when we say it is not. I think if not you, and who would talk about a good language when it comes to the National Framework? All these amendments were more or less rejected by reason that the solution was proposed by the draft law more comprehensively. I'm not sure. It is the right of the Government to appreciate the integrity of its provision, but the amendments to which it wants to explain what it really needs to change the National Framework is this – that we have the right personnel, something should happen in a year, two, five, ten that would base knowledge, erase the contempt for knowledge and lead to the fact that we have the staff that can work, and then we need to improve European integration, so that we can improve gender equality, so that we can improve investment, so that we can raise the efficiency of local self-government, so we can help us improve the efficiency of courts, so that the National Framework has a focus on improving education in general, and so the employment of capacities, which is again, we are back in the language, why the employment of good in our language, and the descriptors are not. Improving educational efficiency, etc., through the position of refugees and exiled persons to the development of the education system and I will comment on some more. I fully understand, and it is all legal and legitimate, and to make an effort to work on such amendments and to defend people to understand all the details, as I understand the government's position, well, you have agreed, we will not accept it, but I have a proposal, except for my decision to vote for amendments that explain in detail, that the ministry does one effort, perhaps unusually when it comes to the practice of monitoring the work of the Assembly over the Government, and to collect all these amendments in one place, such as, with an explanation that what you have proposed is more comprehensive, but thus you would have less than 4,000 characters practically list everything in which the National Qualifications Framework should change and improve. There are some that are written so they don't seem to have logical connections. I leave it to the minister to assess, but it is the reason for this amendment because we have a knowledge problem that we very easily despise and with a positive view of what the greatest capital you can have is, learning any school and training for any job, whether it's in the crafts, services, production, whatever it is about staff. I'd put in human resources, but it's not my intention to improve the amendment, it's to explain to each other how every job and every strategy in this National Assembly can bring about something good. One short, in old Serbian, "kaj stade" about what these amendments wanted in law, would help both the ministry and those who hear the National Qualifications Framework, because they are not sure what it means and what it does and whether it will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31272	Thank you. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Vesna Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31273	Thank you. In Article 1 The proposal for a law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia has been described as the subject of this law, as well as its connection with the European Qualifications Framework. The amendment I have submitted provides for the addition of the heading 3 or the addition of the term "European integration". By submitting this amendment, I wanted to emphasise the importance of Serbia's Eurointegration process for the overall reform of our society. It is a good driving mechanism, among other things, and because of the funds whose use helps us to establish the highest standards in all areas of Europe's most developed countries. The establishment of this qualification system is one of the priorities of both national and European strategic documents. Institutions and bodies related to the National Qualifications Framework will be established through a financial agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission with special conditions applicable to the financing of the sectoral reform contract in the area of reform of the 2016 IPA Action Programme. That agreement planned to fund the European Commission's budget, in line with sectoral budgetary policy mechanisms. As Serbia's EU membership is one of our top foreign policy priorities, I believe this amendment should be included in the text of the law. Finally, the application of this law will produce concrete results in practice and will help a large number of people who are essentially qualified, but do not have formal education and together with dual education, this law is a major step forward in improving our education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31274	The word is from a colleague of Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31275	This is a well-founded one of the amendments, which has also been rejected and I understand the government's position to say – we will co-operate with the commission, we will have IPA projects, written European integration or not written. I'm not sure that's a good explanation. To my question – will it be clear to everyone what it is and whether it will work for the national qualification framework, the throw was – will, will. I need a little proof for that, you know? I have twice asked counterpart Nada Lazic for changes in the budget of only 10 million dinars for cards of erosion and twice the ministers lied to me with – will, will. I asked four times for the removal of the wild deposits of the New Banites, so the ministers and the authorities claimed they would, they would, they would, they wouldn't, they wouldn't. It's been going on for years. So, it can't go to "mothers to me" and "will, it's not yours to worry about" to talk about whether or not a national qualification framework will be applied and whether and how it will be what I know the Government has as an agreement with the European Commission. It is your right to refuse such an amendment. It is my duty to tell you to gather these amendments, whether they do so by the Ministry or by the Assembly, because the collection of these amendments will show where the national qualification framework should actually work, not because one of us here does not know it, but because none of us here are here for each other, but because of people living in Serbia, who need to change the quality of education by applying the national qualification framework.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31276	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31277	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. For ten years, Serbia has waited to adopt and define the National Qualifications Framework Act. I want Mr. Sarcevic, Minister Sarcevic, to really give you public recognition that you and your expert team managed to reform the system of education after ten years and give this really good legal solution to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When I remember what the previous government was doing in years behind us, it's a good thing they didn't reform education. They've implemented those radical reforms, I'll remind you of judicial reforms, so it's really good for us Serbian citizens that they haven't touched the education system in Serbia. Reasons for submitting my amendment, relating to Article 1. The law that defines the subject matter of the National Qualifications Framework is because the National Qualifications Framework contributes to the improvement of Serbia's education system at all, but not only of the education system, you have indeed included one key player in this process both the economy and the Ministry of Labour and trade unions and all those professional associations that helped you, whose opinions you have incorporated and have become an integral part of this law. The purpose of this law is actually the education of competent individuals. We must give these competent individuals equal opportunities, equal chances of education in schools in Serbia. These competent individuals will be able to respond in an adequate and professional way both to the needs of the market and to the needs of the economy and society in general, but therefore they will also meet their own personal needs. They will develop, they will cultivate one concept of lifelong learning. The National Qualifications Framework is an integral part of the European integration process and of our chapters 26 relating to education and culture. This is planned, in fact, the basic essence is planned in the European framework of qualifications, i.e. linking our national framework with the European Qualifications Framework. Let me remind you, we opened this chapter in February last year, and it was given space for the candidate countries themselves to define by their reputation for the European model their system of education. In this connection, a truly significant funding amount of 27.4 million dinars has been provided to educate projects and implement projects in the field of education, training teachers in all primary schools. In the end, I want to quote Winston Churchill who said that empires of the future are empires based on knowledge. Knowledge is one of our biggest capitals for the future and if we really want to make progress as a society, we need to ensure equality, equal opportunities, equal chances in Serbia's education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31278	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31279	Also a good amendment that says the national qualification framework affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to improving gender equality. All amendments have a foothold in the Constitution, but this amendment has a direct member in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia who has committed all of us, the state itself has committed itself to a policy of equal opportunities. If, for some others, you may have an explanation that your solution is more comprehensive, for this is difficult to sustain for the simple reason that by looking at equal access to girls and boys, education for decades or centuries back, and creating as a state the legislative framework that should enable it, it is evident that in less than 100 years we have come from the attitudes of women at school, it will be dangerous, it should sit at home and get married and shut up, so today we have reached the amazing contribution of women in Serbia and in the whole world after education, an amazing contribution to what they do when they are employed and when they finish schools, whatever schools and what they are in society, being treated as human beings. With this in mind and a debate about whether we need nouns for female occupations, so I'm just gonna remind you that everything was unusual. She was also an unusual doctor, she was an unusual assistant, while Ksenija Atanasijević did her dissertation at Belgrade University as the first and received a call from a doctor, along with an amazing charm link that followed her and her dissertation from Ruđer Boskovic, to the sad fact that today we do not know where her grave is in the New Cemetery. It's all history, a common history of women and men in Serbia, not to mention all the first ones who have been on the road through education and through the professions in which the woman has not been, who have passed their female rate where no woman before them has passed, that we would be born 20, 30, 40 or 50 years later have a wide open road. If the national qualification framework doesn't see it as a value, I'm sure you all feel that you've written enough, but you won't reduce the integrity of the law by accepting such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31280	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31281	I thank the chairman. In order to improve the development of education policy in 2018, the government proposed that 21 billion dinars should be allocated in the budget on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development more, which we have gladly voted and adopted here, because we have adopted a new policy of the Ministry of Science and Education, which is particularly reflected in this year in digitisation, then in entrepreneurship, international graduation, then commercial studies and so on. I would especially point out that 15 million were allocated in the budget of the Ministry of Education for the development and promotion of entrepreneurial education this year. A good example from practice is the local self-government I come from, Sokobanja, where several schools from Serbia participated in international student entrepreneurship last year and where students competed on the theme "Business idea for the development of the Sokobanja tourist offer". Also in those days, a lecture was given by Assistant Minister Gabriela Grujic on the theme "Dual Education", which certainly improved the acceptance of the idea by the lecturers themselves. This year, international student entrepreneurship days will be held in Sokobanja and all schools are interested in participating in the event where various conferences for teachers will also be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31282	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31283	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to propose an amendment to the NOKS bill, and I point to its importance for the efficiency of the work of local self-government. The proposed law, i.e. the establishment of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, will benefit many entities, participants in the field of labour and education, as the established framework would contribute to quality assurance as a result of work and vocational education and training. Users of the established system of state institutions and public services who, thanks to the consistency of the education and qualifications system, can now get professional and capable public servants. Local self-government, as the authority of the state administration to which citizens and businesses are directly addressed, is necessary to be capable, efficient and professional. What we all want is local self-government as a service of citizens. The job of the state can only be promoted by motivated, disciplined and professional officials. This is something we can expect in the next period precisely from individuals passing an educated system in line with the needs of the economy, and this government has recognised the importance, the skills that must be built into that investment in the education system and education is highly cost-effective and necessary on our path to building a modern and European Serbia. In any case, anything that eliminates what “FTP 1” or “miss one piece of paper” or come tomorrow, I also support with both hands in the day of voting my fellow Members to find the strength and time to support this amendment. I congratulate Mr. Minister and his associates for speeding up our education system and bringing it closer to the European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31284	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Parezenović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31285	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues, this amendment further highlights the impact of this law on the comprehensive improvement of education in Serbia as one of the basic preconditions for development of both the economy and the private sector, on the other hand and the quality of public services. As well as a number of previous laws in the field of education, this law highlights the importance of lifelong learning as one of the basic principles of education reform, i.e. that learning and education does not end with a finished primary, secondary school or college, because the time in which we live without dilemma requires both new learning and new knowledge and adapting to new technologies. What this law should provide, among other things, is greater transparency and understanding of qualifications, ensuring recognition of informal and informative learning, clearly defining levels and sub-levels of education, as well as compliance with the European Qualifications Framework, all of which, as well as the product, should also bring greater motivation of individuals for lifelong learning, for improvement, for advancement, and that an individual can expect it to be both recognized and measurable and evaluated in the system in which he works, because only with the greater motivation of each individual we can expect that lifelong learning be fully accepted. So, I expect this law to have a positive effect on the improvement, professionally and professionally, of each individual, and this is also a basic prerequisite for development and economy and the private sector and the quality of public services, because as we know each system is made up of people, it makes individuals and their progress advances, and so do these systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31286	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31287	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates, here's a miracle - the MP submitted the amendment, so he answered the question. Perhaps we should apologize, as MPs of the ruling structure, or ruling group, to submit amendments to young Mr. Aleksic, but what should we do? It's our right, our obligation. I wanted to file for, instead of amendments, a request for a subsidisation to buy a tractor, but it's not on the agenda today. I use this right that when someone says “a member of the law is deleted, ” it is our right to say“ you do not delete a member of the law. ” Perhaps we should submit amendments that will say that a member should be embellished, that letters should be deepened in order to be given in such a way. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill, and I propose to add the 3rd position, which it says - the NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to capacity utilisation. I suggested this on the basis of the second objective of NOX, which says – the development of qualifications standards based on labour market needs. With this amendment, I wanted to draw particular attention to the importance of adopting this law in the National Qualifications Framework, because NOKS establishes an integrated single system that covers all levels, as far as I can remember, has eight, and all types of qualifications that are grouped into four groups, which is basic, secondary, academic and vocational education. By adopting this law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, it becomes an instrument for regulating, linking the fields of qualifications and the labour markets and is a stimulating basis for applying lifelong learning. This law also establishes a classification system, a class, which is in line with the international standard qualification of education, known as ISCED-13F, and the role of NOKS is to connect with the European Qualifications Framework. The wish of those MPs who say this is erased is nothing but the desire for Serbia to remain educationally unedited, rightly unregulated and without the right plans. The Serbian Progressive Party does not want such a thing and the SNS wants this parliament to play a role for what it exists, which is to pass laws, and it cannot take over the role of rubber and delete the laws. I would not agree with the objection of individual MPs that laws should not be so precise, that they should not be detailed and leave something behind for a sublegal act, because I think that by regulating and detailed regulation of such a law, sublaws become even more precise, even better, and thus prevents abuse, finding holes in the law and bureaucratic abuse or poor interpretation of the law. I disagree with the grudge sent to the minister that he is prone to frequent changes in the law, because I think it's good based on the harmonisation of the law and some of the things that happen in practice. I remember the words of Interior Minister Dr Nebojja Stefanovic, president of the SNS Belgrade City Committee, who said -- if I have to change the law every month, that the laws would be as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31288	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A fellow prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31289	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, this is another one of our amendments from the ruling party and is related to the amendment of previous colleagues. It's just for the viewers who follow the transmission to repeat themselves, to be in Article 1. The proposal for this law establishes a national qualification framework for the Republic of Serbia and practically defines and regulates a qualification system with objectives, purpose and results. So Article 1 that establishes and sets basic objectives and results that define everything that applies later in all members. I propose an amendment adding item 3 and this item 3 applies to the education system too. So I read it, just because of the viewers - NOX is afirming the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on the development of the education system. Practically, not only the national qualification framework, but now that we're discussing it, this is another law that surrounds the set of laws that we had in the autumn session, and refers to education. All these laws have been reformative in many ways, not to remind us now, but practically, like this law we are now discussing, which we should have, and already some fellow MPs have said, much earlier to be passed. The ministry is with great effort because the adoption of such a law involves many responsibilities and professional work and efforts to bring about such a national qualification framework. Practically, by adopting this law in the feedback mechanism, it must be reformed to join in education as well. So, defining the appropriate levels of knowledge and skills, because the essence, the basics, of this law, is to introduce the concept of learning outcomes. Conditions have been created that allow one basic thing, that any outcome of learning can be evaluated, evaluated and evaluated, and in such a way that the subjects that can do so are precisely defined, the level of skills and knowledge that the relevant qualification level implies in both the practical part of the ability and those tasks that the relevant qualification level can perform. So, this NOX law is a major further progress made by the ministry in introducing new reforms in the field of education that will lead to the improvement of further training and modernisation of our education from pre-school to higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31290	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People of Ostora Mijailovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31291	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this Article with the position I have proposed, the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia will further affirm the overall development of our country, and in particular the development of regional medical centres. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that by enabling regular and quality professional training of young people, adequate working conditions and new investments create the most favourable conditions for the development of the state. Investment in human health is an investment in the future. It is an idea run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by building new health institutions throughout our country. The Nis Clinical Centre in whose reconstruction and construction is invested 50m euros, equipped with the most modern technique and appliances, is today the most modern health institution in this part of Europe. The funds have been provided for the completion of clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. New homes of health have been built. The Tirshova 2 hospital will be built, a gamma knife has been obtained, cyber knife procurement is under way, over 10 linear accelerators have been deployed across Serbia, leading to a reduction in the waiting list of radiation. A large number of scanners have been obtained, magnetic resonances, digital X-rays, modernly equipped sanitary vehicles. Progress in health information, introduction of an electronic recipe, shortened waiting time for oncology patients, improved mental health status, as well as record results in the organ transplant area have brought Serbia's health to 20 places in Europe. Reminders for, in 2013, we took the last 34 places. This is a policy of responsible and host relations with their country, a policy of diligence and care for their citizens. This is SNS policy and our president, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31292	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. My colleague Vukojičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31293	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which adds a new position in Article 3, which refers to the affirmation of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the protection of vulnerable groups. First of all, I have to commend the Ministry of Education for the reason that the law relating to the national qualification framework has been developed for a longer period of time, i.e. it was done practically from the end of 2014 to the end of 2017. It was developed in full partnership and in a social dialogue with all relevant institutions, even an interminist team was formed to draft this law, but all other important factors including the Business Chamber of Serbia and, of course, other institutions took part in the development of a national qualification framework. I must point out that one of the principles of the National Qualifications Framework refers to the principle of respect for the individual characteristics of each individual, as well as the principle of equal availability to the acquisition of qualifications regardless of the degree of difficulty in the development of each participant. Of course, I would like to point out, unlike the representatives of the yellow regime, who robbed children distracted by 157 million dinars only at Heterland Castle, I must point out that the government of Alexander Vukic is only in school 2016/2017. The year provided for 674 students free textbooks. They're children of blind, weak-sighted, children with mental-development disorders, children with motor disorders. It's not just 674 students. It is about 7,000 textbooks, including over four thousand in electronic format, close to 700 in Brajev's letter and close to 800 in an increased format. For these purposes, the government has singled out 27 million 318 thousand dinars. That's how the responsible government, the power of Alexander Vukic. The government has continued its continued policy and thus is responsible for the ministry headed by Minister Sarcevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31294	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31295	An amendment that deals with precision for NOX which I will link to the requirements set out in other amendments, for the words of our language, for the process in our society, such as the inclusion. Why are we talking about inclusion? Because we were neither inclined, nor understood enough that inclusion that would be translated is a process that includes all children, children with developmental disorders, children with physical disorders, all children together because it is a process that is good for all children. As a result, the colleague submitted this amendment and the use of expressions describing the physical and psychological state of the child or the person who has developmental disturbances is often used in our society for insults. Today is the day of the person with the autism. Still, quite often, many of us say, when they want to insult someone – an autistic person. I don't know if there's a law that will remove that kind of prejudice from our language communication, like I don't know if there's a law that will remove propaganda from our communication that's common damage and common evil, but for everyone to choose from. Everyone chooses by what they say to be who they are. However, the requirement to specifically mention social groups that have until recently been completely invisible or targets of prejudice, targets of insult, elimination from society, is good for the national qualification framework, as it would be good for the minister at one of the public hearings, which were in the National Assembly, to do together with the MPs an analysis where all the problem with involving children with developmental disorders, with disability in teaching processes, because there are a terrible number of problems. From the money needed for personal assistants, through the way personal assistants are determined to a social conviction, still very powerful what these children with our children will do and when it comes to children with developmental disorders, children with autism, children with disabilities, and Roma children or migrant children. It is all the work that we have in common and it would be good to accept it both in public speech and in works, if we are in public affairs to make it clear that this good government decision, that at least with the badge on the lap, is marked by the day of people with autism, means some of our daily steps, day-to-day procedures, daily action to reduce bad behavior towards some of us who are different that we understand that this diversity is rich for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31296	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31297	I'd just like to remind you and the public that, for at least the last year and a few days, it's been done intensively and that it's not for any praise or marketing, but it's a need to do that, and for the children of migrants, we are really the country most praised for all possible encounters from Western Europe through Vienna, so wherever it is happening, even in Greece. So there we became even an example of what we showed will and patience. I'm glad that the number of Roma children attending high school and girls is doubled, so the guys are coming in, everything's being taken care of, the number of students has been doubled, so we're taking great care of it, so now in this action that follows, we're going to devote huge resources to teaching teachers, including Roma children, and, last week, we have hidden money in the system that's not seen because people who run institutions, let's say, play with that census, it's some rule that can show more, where there are fewer employees. Given the state of both the budget and the state, I wasn't waiting for new funds, but we're doing an electronic censorship, and we've already found out how much more money there is. So that money will bring back assistants more than it has been, to a greater extent, pedagogical, these personal companions, school librarians, psychologists, educators and other professions, is that when it moved, it didn't count. So this is very much being taken care of, and thank you for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31298	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibir Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Radičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31299	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia, which adds position 3 and reads – the NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to industrialisation. The objective of my amendment is to further define the subject matter of this law. Why with a special reference to industrialization? Only with a strong and stable state industry can it stand on healthy feet and we expect it to have a stable financial situation. The government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, are making huge efforts to increase industrial production in Serbia and employ as many workers as possible. All this directly affects the increase in GDP, and of course it also affects the reduction in the number of unemployed. The efforts made in the previous period have already started to produce positive effects. Investors who invested their capital have led giants who have not or worked with huge losses in Serbia in recent years today to start working again. There are many examples of this, such as "Gelezzara" Smederevo or "Fiat" in Kragujevac. I am sorry that we have not had before representatives of the authorities who have the main objective of the welfare of citizens and of a strong and stable state. Unfortunately, their main goal was to fill their pockets, not their national register. If there were any goodwill, the machinery industry and the electronics group in Nis would still be working today. It is therefore necessary to give full support to people who are domestically treating their country and in all ways trying to improve the industry, as the basis of a stable state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31300	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Comrade Lukic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31301	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, the distinguished ministers with their associates, respected colleagues, by submitting this amendment I want all of Serbia's development to be affirmed. The overall development of Serbia is necessary to be even. This is achieved exclusively by attracting investors, by opening new factories and jobs, to motivate people to stay in their local self-governments. For this it is necessary to use existing capacities and create an ambience for the maximum potential utilisation of local environments. The fiscal discipline implies that all market participants comply with their obligations in accordance with the legal and contractual deadlines, in order to increase business predictability, implement the proper distribution of resources, conduct market selection and act in a stimulating way on the growth of the economy. In order to achieve this, conditions must also be provided for a market participant to establish activity in a local self-government. It is necessary to provide and build and revitalise infrastructure in order to obtain conditions for making investment easier. With this in mind, it is necessary to build a road and sewerage network, allow future investors to position themselves in Baja Basta, the local self-government I come from. In order for this to happen, it is necessary to step up activities on the construction of the Kadican tunnel, putting in place the full function of the Ponikva airport, the construction of local roads and the development of necessary urban plans, so that in the future it can be planned as soon as possible to build capital facilities necessary for the development of my municipality. These preconditions create conditions for the construction of aqua park, the first in western Serbia, the panoramic gondola in Zavina, the largest and most beautiful village of Serbia, by opening the "spa" and "velnese" centres on the mountain of Tari, which is the largest red blood cell factory in Europe and many others. It's all a list of conditions for new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31302	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Maletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31303	I thank the chairman. I have submitted this amendment with the intention to further highlight the impact of the labour market, i.e. integration and somewhere the government's orientation that has shown previous laws its orientation towards the relationship between education and the labour market. The national qualification framework further highlights this and is actually a good indicator of where this government is seeking, i.e. to make maximum use of all the benefits of the current situation, the positive situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located. I will remind only the MPs that during the previous period, during the former regime, we had a double bad situation, if I may say so, since proportionally, how much the job problem has grown, or there has been a shortage of jobs in the labour market, the situation has also happened that we have a certain number and a significant number of people who could not be employed because there was no balance between their education and qualifications that they possessed and labour market needs. It is precisely this national qualification framework that connects these two things – the labour and education market and will try several times to solve this problem that has existed for many years. I would not agree with the MPs who spoke here about the unnecessary adoption of this law, because the situation is just the opposite. It is the example that shows that for years there has been a problem between certain people who have some qualifications finding their place of work during the former regime, while there has been at the same time and a lack of jobs overall looking. In the National Qualifications Framework, the most significant moment is previous learning, and that is exactly what this National Qualifications Framework recognises and will allow a large number of people to work faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31304	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Here you go, Comrade Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31305	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues, I have submitted an amendment that reads: "The National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving defence capacities. “ In addition to this, I have submitted three more amendments, with the goal of recognising the importance of NOX to improve the defence system, because modern defence systems, in order to be effective, in order to meet the challenges, must be precisely defined and valued qualifications of members of the defence system. Modernization of each system is the key to its progress and development, and it requires qualified members who need to be precisely classified. Just to remind you, Mr. Minister, the system of military education, which unites educational and scientific and research work, cannot be outside the NOX, the university of defence that teaches personnel for the purposes of the defence system, which includes the Military Academy, Medical Academy, the Military Medical Academy, the Institute of Strategic Research, the Institute of Scientific Research and what is particularly important, the National Defence School. It's the concept of lifelong education at the National Defence School. There are other forms of improvement when it comes to members of the defence system. In addition to various courses, training officers and sub-offices, but also high-level defence security studies, attended by officers and senior state officials, ministers, state secretaries. So I think NOX would have to include a system of military education and education, that is, the University of Defence and improve the defence system. That is why I have proposed this amendment, and I think it should be adopted, because we cannot leave outside the NOX this system that works and which is trained by members of the defence system, which depends on the future and development of each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31306	Thank you. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31307	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have proposed an amendment in Article 1. The bill, which reads: "The NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to inclusive education". The establishment of NOKS defines the area where qualifications are established, describes the levels and types of qualifications, competent bodies and processes, which are related to the establishment of a qualification system, with full respect for the specificities of the national education system, the principles of European educational practice, especially the European qualification framework, because, of course, we must, as a society, take steps with the world. The National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is an instrument that regulates the area of qualifications and integration with the labour market. The NOX is the basis for applying the concept of lifelong learning and has an impact on improving the education system of the Republic, as well as on the development of individuals. The establishment of NOKS and the introduction of the concept of learning outcomes enables learning to be evaluated through the establishment of the principle that any achievement can be measured and evaluated independently of the way it was acquired. When we talk about inclusion, it is defined as a process of identifying and responding to the various needs of children and adults through increased participation in learning, cultural life and community life, as well as by reducing school exclusion. All faces should be part of the school community, regardless of their strengths and weaknesses in certain areas, i.e. regardless of their ethnicity, language, material condition, above all, I mean poverty and so forth. We must not allow any person to be excluded or marginalised in society and local communities on the basis of physical, sensory, motor and intellectual specificities which, if he does not receive adequate support, will be prevented from achieving his existential needs and life roles. Therefore, the proposed amendment aims to further define the subject-matter of this law, preventing any form of possibility for certain parts of the text of the proposed law to be interpreted arbitraryly or incorrectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31308	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Yevtić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31309	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I submit the next amendment to the bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted. In Article 1 The bill adds Article 3 which reads: "The national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to even development". We are witnessing the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the overall equal development of the entire country and indeed responsible and state-of-the-art policies that are reflected in the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which aim at a better and safer life of citizens, then the government's commitment to defining the normal and correct system of values in all areas of social life, and we know that the vessel of the housing of each system is a good and proper system of education, with clearly defined qualifications and titles based on the principles of lifelong learning, individuality, equal opportunities, availability, transparency, openness, integration and co-operation, all in order to create a society of equal opportunities and even development in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. In essence, this bill creates a legal basis for establishing a single and functional qualification and reference system in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia that will, in the future, allow for a better functional arrangement of society, in terms of synchronisation of the system of qualifications with the needs of the economy, in simpler terms, functional harmonisation between the world of work and the world of education, all in order to ensure a comprehensive development of the entire society. In all advances, I believe that it is necessary to further define the subject matter of this bill through the proposal for this amendment and thus affect the better quality of the proposed legislative solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31310	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Mother's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31311	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. It's a member who edits the subject of this law, i.e. what is established by law. I have suggested to this member that item 3 be added, which in particular, i.e. It further links the subject matter of this law to the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. I think it is very important, especially to bind the national qualification framework of Serbia, i.e. Serbia's qualification with the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia, primarily to prevent catastrophic judicial reform, i.e. The justice that took place in Serbia in 2008. The question arises which qualifications were raised by those who went with lists of yellow lists in Serbia's courts in 2008 and who had decided on a flat-rate basis, which judge would remain in his post and which one would not? The question arises which qualifications were raised by those who literally halved the number of judges in the Kickindian Court, or who did not allow re-election of judges who, regardless of what they were doing 20, 30 years in the profession without a single stain, regardless of their compliance with the law, were completely removed only because they did not comply with the principles or criteria of DS. These judges followed the law and thought for themselves, but apparently it wasn't enough because they didn't think for the head of the DS. I therefore believe that it is very important once again to link qualifications, in particular to the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia, because the judiciary represents one of the three most important pillars of independence, independent division of power, or independent judiciary is one of those three pillars to bring about some better times, this independent judiciary should exist and it will bring a better future to future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31312	A colleague of Radeta's after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31313	Very short. We heard earlier that this amendment was submitted to prevent the catastrophic situation in the 2008 judiciary. Our question is does this mean that from 2008 until today, in 2018 nothing was fixed in this catastrophic state? The second question is for the minister, given that the government did not accept the amendment, does this mean that the minister does not mind the disastrous state of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31314	On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Krikapic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31315	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this law, which adds item 3 which reads: "NOX is afirming the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to undeveloped municipalities." Considering that I have submitted an amendment already to Article 1. The proposal for this law, I need to explain, above all, the NOX, or the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia. It is an instrument governing the issues of qualifications needed for the market, labour force and is the basis for applying the concept of lifelong learning. The very concept of lifelong learning is the answer to the question of how to catch up with a world that is rapidly changing, a world where information flow is increasingly difficult to track, the acceleration that creates new knowledge. The answer to this question is that the most important thing is to properly understand the process and importance of learning, both for personal growth and for the promotion of the community. Learning has always been an integral part of man’s existence, and today it is an uninterrupted process of advancement. It's just that learning means changing. We live in a world where everything changes and learns everything. Cities and communities organizations, smart apps and the like. The concept of lifelong learning is to respect the needs of adults for development throughout life. In fact, education is a process that covers only organizational learning, while learning is a broader concept that includes every opportunity to gain knowledge throughout life. It is important to stress that precisely because of the accelerated technological development, the list of professions is dramatically changing, and Serbia must have described educational profiles and professions, where these profiles fit. This is important for harmonising with European standards. In the standard of the national qualification framework, it will be known when someone completes a certain kind of education, what kind of knowledge he has acquired, what abilities and skills and what kind of work he can do, because that is how the list of clearly defined professions is arranged. It is evident that there are many qualifications in higher education, and sometimes because of their professional names, there is no impression of what someone can do on the basis of their acquired qualifications, which will no longer be the case after the adoption of this law, or the creation of a list, of standards. So today, it is necessary to invest constantly in yourself, to learn, to improve your abilities and skills, and thus to adapt to the needs and requirements of modern market work. However, permanent investment in itself is not enough. It is necessary to learn faster than others and to adequately apply those skills under the given circumstances. With the development and application of NOKS, a qualification system is established and regulated, which, in accordance with the requirements of social and economic development, in general through the improvement of quality, educational offer and easier labour mobility, thereby afirming the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to undeveloped municipalities, which is further defined in Amendment 1 that I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31316	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here are your colleagues, Compirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31317	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the national qualification framework and paragraph 3 is added, which reads: "The NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the judiciary". The national qualification framework marks the space where qualifications are established, describes the level of the body and the process related to their establishment, as well as the principle of the European qualification framework. Circumstances that indicate the need to continue and improve the qualification system as one of the key conditions for the development of society, based on the importance and increased employment of the population and further socio-economic development, as well as the development of individuals. In the world of total reforms and reforms of judicial professions, an effective judicial system for the security of every citizen needs to be built. Serbia has much to do, although much has been done, by coming to the authorities of the SNS and our President, Alexander Vukic, because then we got a destroyed judiciary by the Dossov authorities and left in a catastrophic state. I believe that former Minister Selakovic, as well as current Mrs Kuburovic, has done that we have a faster and more efficient judiciary. This is important, because the adoption of a new law on enforcement and security is a reduction in the number of old treasonous cases, and sometimes years even decades were needed to resolve disputes, and that is what we as a society seek to get as much and as efficiently in the judiciary as possible, to get solutions to disputes. It is unacceptable for opposition and former DOS members to criticise our society's reforms because they created a famous reform when they introduced an operation in 2009, when a known operation of courts, when judges and prosecutors were left out of work, which the Constitutional Court later returned to work, and all of this to the detriment of Serbian citizens, at the expense of pensioners, employees who had to suffer austerity measures. But as a society, we go forward, faster, stronger and better, thanks to President Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31318	National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, colleague Jolović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31319	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, in the context of education reform and the achievement of the objectives set out in the development documents of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to define the National Qualifications Framework. Article 1 of this proposal defines the way in which the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is established and associated with the European Qualifications Framework, as well as the regulation of the purposes, objectives and principles of NOX. All types and levels of qualifications, ways of acquiring qualifications, descriptions of knowledge, skills, attitudes need to be further defined by the subject matter of this law. The reason for the amendment is that NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific view to better access to economic resources. The NOX, as a common European reference framework, connects national qualifications systems between different countries and education systems in Europe. It is also a document containing a description of duties and tasks, as well as the individual required for the effective performance of tasks in a given profession. It is therefore of great importance to give better access to economic resources, in the sense that each individual is doing his job effectively and effectively, contributing to the better development of the business of the institution in which he works and to the achievement of the best possible business result. The better access to the economic resources of the education system with the adjustment system will ensure prosperity in all economic branches, as well as business development in all segments of social activities, and all in line with and comparison with qualifications from other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31320	Thank you, colleague Jolovich. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31321	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Sarcevic and his associates, we have before us a set of laws from the domain of education. First of all, I would like to stress that the Socialist Movement Group – The People's Peasant Party – will support this set of laws in the voting day. The amendment that I have made, first of all, concerns the inclusion of gender equality not only in this law, but in all the laws that we adopt in this House. I believe that education is indeed a pillar of our society's development and it is indeed a pleasure to see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has also found this as one of the most important objectives when we talk about the reforms of our society. The National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia, by including gender equality, allows education to be capitalised in the sense that women are better employed, easier employed and made their careers come true on the basis of their competences and skills acquired by their education. The enforcement of this law harmonizes our frameworks with the EU frameworks. Sometimes education was completely inaccessible to women. Birth equality as a concept was not recognized at all. Today, by the influence of all of us women in parliament, women in other political public functions, women are allowed to hear their voice, they are allowed to work in the profession, they are allowed to be educated. What is very important is that the co-ordination body for gender equality Serbia can boast of the results that are now in the 40th place of 144 countries, which we will agree is a great result, given the environment in which we are. I believe that this amendment confirms that gender equality is very important to us, and we need to adopt it in order to help this coordination body, in order to help all women today who are struggling to improve their position, because we believe that education is an important factor, that is, if this amendment is adopted, it will be an important factor in making progress precisely in gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31322	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers with fellow Members, in this Law on Qualifications, of course and its importance for the development of the Republic of Serbia, I would certainly look back at all the amendments I have proposed to the region and the importance of the region at this time. On the occasion of this amendment, I will draw particular attention to today's most delicate part and the most problematic part of our region as well as Serbs in the region, which is certainly Kosovo and Metohija. Fortunately, there is still education in the Serbian system, but I must remind you that education and the acquisition of qualifications in this case is not only a personal prosperity, but the prosperity of the entire community and therefore the application of such amendments and concerns in the region is a general national good and a general national goal. I would like to tell you that, let's say, before 2012, the pandan or the extended hand of your ministry in the Office of the then Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is the Educational Sector. According to his own recognition, the head of the Education Sector, which is somewhere, is the pandan sector and the Regional Secretariat of Education, such as Vojvodina, the head of the sector has not been in Kosovo and Metohija for three and a half years, means, by its own recognition, but not by its own idea. Imagine someone who sets aside school funds, material costs, heating, all accounts, learning and all that is needed for one school, and this school, and neither there nor the other, has ever seen? That's how education used to be conducted in Kosovo and Metohija. Fortunately, it's not like that anymore. That concern, of course, is improved and much continues to be invested. I don't know if it's possible or possible, but I'm a supporter of elitism when it comes to the region. You know, the best high school in the past, the best high school isn't in Belgrade, it's not in Novi Sad, it's in Karlovci and we're proudest of the Karlovci. Why wouldn't there be education in Kosovo and Metohija elite education? Why wouldn't the University of Pristina be our Kenbridge or Oxford with the best professors, if it were necessary for visiting professors? One way to fight for Kosovo and Metohija is also to fight for education, and education there is still our national quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31324	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31325	I kind of had to relate to what you said, and I think you're right. Simply, the university's work has begun and we have indeed made several moves that we have now made that there is no weekend teaching, that it begins to happen what we wanted to be the Pristina University, located in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, really profiled in a good university, so that's something we do together with the doctorate, with students and in all fields. I'm also saying that I've seen very good institutions, it's up to the people who operate them and the teams again. I do not, in any part, separate them from any other part of Serbia, which absolutely all processes, from the electronic diary to the equipment, from the reform moves now, licensing directors to teacher training, include all the people below. There are other problems that have been inherited, and we need to take care of that. We are very sensitive, but to introduce order and that the state must be absolutely visible not only from the point of view of help, but also from respect for all principles and quality rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31326	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31327	Thank you. Dear Chairman, esteemed Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, I have proposed an amendment to which Article 1. The bill adds Article 3, which reads: "The national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the efficiency of the judiciary", with the aim of primarily through the affirmation of acquired qualifications and the improvement of professional competencies of judicial staff, affecting the efficiency of the judiciary in general. Speaking of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with the desire to increase the efficiency of the Serbian judiciary, I must remind that Serbia is today still at the stage of correcting the disastrous consequences of the 2009 judicial reform, a reform that has left a huge burden on all those working in the judiciary today and which has had an extremely negative impact on the efficiency of the Serbian judiciary. It is the reform, which was implemented by the former regime in 2009, that is the biggest disaster that could ever have been achieved by the Serbian judiciary. It is this reform that was carried out in 2009 that is the worst blow to the efficiency of the judiciary, primarily because on 31.12.2009, more than 1,000 judges and prosecutors who represented a third of the judicial staff were discreetly and under the influence of politics, who were both qualified and quality and honorable and honest, but were not politically similar. Because of all this, and in the interest of citizens, we are obliged to influence in every way possible the efficiency of the judiciary. We have to admit that the previous few years have been significant results in increasing the efficiency of our judiciary, but much has to be done to correct the catastrophic consequences of 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31328	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Markovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31329	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment highlights the need for modernisation in the context of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as it is written in the amendment itself. He absolutely has his place in this bill. This bill represents a continuation of reforms in the field of education, and we are achieving all those objectives set in the development documents of the Republic of Serbia. If we want to improve the education system, if we want to develop a system of education, if we want to modernise the education system, then we need to define NOX, which is what this bill does. So, just by establishing NOX, we're setting up an entire area of qualifications and connections, as we've heard from several colleagues, with the labour market. In this way we define a unique and integrated NOX, which includes all levels and types of qualifications, regardless of whether it is formal education, informal education, information learning, i.e. life experience or work experience and what is very important, regardless of whether or not the age of life in which the qualification is acquired. In other words, as it is written in the law, we will enable learning to be evaluated through the principle that any achievement can be measured or evaluated independently of the way it is acquired. So it is quite clear that this concept of benefite will have citizens and states, and that is why I think it is important that we accept this bill, and my amendment is absolutely compatible with the text of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31330	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31331	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the honourable ministers with associates, on Article 1 that defines the subject of this law, I felt it would be useful to propose an amendment that reads that NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to greater social equality. Since Article 1 states among other things that the subject of defining this law is to link it with the European Qualifications Framework, which is not personal to me, but I understand the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the tendencies that are going on, I also felt that the question of social equality is something that should be one of the key elements in further work, when it comes to NOX. Why? Because Article 3 is defined in Article 9 among other things, in the objectives of NOX, ensuring comparability, recognisability of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Serbia, with qualifications acquired in other countries. This may not seem at first sight to have a direct relationship, but it is linked to it because qualifications acquired in other countries are not only EU countries, these are also former SFRY countries, where many of our citizens today and those living in the Republic of Serbia have serious problems to properly qualify their diplomas and provide their respective existence, which is one of the key issues of social equality. Article 13 sets out in points 3 and 4 of the competences and advices of NOKS, because by making recommendations on the planning and development of human potentials process and making recommendations on improving the integration of education and labour market needs, as well as in Article 24 on cooperation between institutions, this amendment can be applied directly, which would then ensure a better social equality of all those to which NOX applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31332	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is LJibuška Lakatoš.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31333	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 1. The NOKS bill adds an attitude 3 -- the NOKS affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the development of the school system. In order to achieve reform processes in the field of education, it is necessary to define NOX. Because of the lack of NOX so far, there is a big gap between the school system, i.e. education systems and labour market needs. In the next period, more investment in the school system, i.e. even more investment in education and training at all levels, is needed, which is what this government and President Aleksandar Vukic will certainly do. Educational outcomes need to be adapted, i.e. The outcome of learning the needs of the labour market, and that is what we are doing by creating a national qualification framework, which will help businesses, especially investors. The NOX is the basis for applying the concept of lifelong learning and is of great importance and impact on improving the education system in Serbia, as well as on individual development. By establishing NOKS, it contributes to ensuring the quality of work and professional education and training, which will ultimately give our country a faster development for the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31334	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31335	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, the NOX Bill and amendments I have submitted, where NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving economic development, therefore NOX certainly represents some kind of common language between the labour and education markets and represents a tool that brings us in one practical way closer to the labour and education market. The NOX defines clear rules on how qualifications are achieved, how that qualification is confirmed, and how that qualification can be comparable. The concept of lifelong learning is also very important within the framework of NOX, and this may be the roof of all these reform laws in the field of education. So this isn't just about having one quality qualification base, this is about the motive of people who are in that part of informal information education. They have a chance to get their qualifications, and when they see that they have that chance, it'll be their motive to do more, to improve, to recognise their previous knowledge and to be even better at work, thus better labour and better jobs. A policy of better jobs and more jobs, a policy of learning at work will always defeat a policy of leaving without jobs and a policy of torture without a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31336	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, we who live in the countryside and who are in practice in agriculture make a big difference between knowledge and title. So, so far, we've had a lot of people calling, but with knowledge, especially practical with a combination of theories and practices, they've stood very badly. I'll set an example - Denmark, Holland. How important practical knowledge is, not just calling the best examples of the Netherlands and Denmark. Serbia has 3,200,000 hectares of agricultural land, Vojvodina has 1,680,000. Denmark has 1,700,000 farmland and has 23 billion euros worth of agricultural and food products from it. The Netherlands, its agricultural exports are worth half the agricultural land Serbia has is worth 79 billion euros. So these are the most important reasons why practical knowledge, which our farmers already have, must be improved as much as possible so that the result and competitiveness on the world market can be as good as possible and that production can be as high as possible and the quality of these products are in line with the standards of Denmark and the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31338	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31339	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(3) and with a desire to put an accent on undeveloped areas, precisely because I come from Svrljig, which is for me the most beautiful municipality in Serbia next to the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia where the state of Serbia invests in the development of these areas. We as a local self-government, i.e. the president of the municipality with his team, are back a few days on the initiative of the United Peasants' Party, whose president I am, submitted a request and we have decided to finance the first grade of high school and that every child enrolled in the first grade of high school in Svrlig gets 5,000 dinars. In the next year, the child gets help, and on the other hand for a child who wants to enroll in dual education, we put 50% more, because we want to give stimulation that the larger number of children remain in Svrlig, and that means in other municipalities such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, the other municipalities that are undeveloped, which have a chance of development and which can provide themselves with much better living conditions, for work, for staying in those municipalities. I think in this way, as the Municipality of Srlig does, where he heads the municipality of Jelena Trifunović, president of the municipality, in front of the United Peasants' Party and I as president of the United Peasants' Party... In the Serbian Parliament, at every step I want to give the potential to develop undeveloped areas, and we see for ourselves that our President, Mr Vukic, is working with all his heart to develop undeveloped areas. We see it in every part of our Serbia, we see it in Srlig, and in the White Palanca, and in Gadjin Han, and in Meroshin, which means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed with our prime minister... We here in the Assembly really want to put an accent on developing undeveloped areas, to develop small municipalities through a program that is this good, through a program where this education, and local self-government itself, can be put out of their budgets, separate funds for young people, as we do in Srlig, who want to enroll in the first year of high school, so that every child can get 5,000 dinars, and whoever wants to write dual education seven and a half thousand dinars. These are instruments to keep the children alive, to learn, and I can say, and proudly so, that a large number of children from my community are very successful people, very strong and smart people, and so big people come from small backgrounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31340	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31341	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member, Article 1. The draft law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is defined as the subject matter of this law. The amendment proposed introducing a 3rd position in Article 1 – the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia stimulates the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on the digitisation of the state administration. I put a special emphasis in this amendment on the need for the digitisation of the state administration, which has been declared one of the main objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment aims to support both the former and future work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The digitalisation of the state administration should speed up and simplify the work of all state authorities and thus increase the availability of the necessary information and services to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown in most municipalities in the Republic of Serbia that this should look, especially through an idea solution to the office for quick answers. Anyone who wants to see how accelerated these jobs are, and all for the benefit of the Serbian citizens themselves. This law defines the National Framework for Staff Policy. Serbia now has a greater need for certain qualifications. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is desperately needed. This amendment strengthens this important system law that regulates the legal regulation of the country's human policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31342	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I wanted to affirm the importance of the law when it comes to strengthening the security structures of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the successful, thoughtful and effective policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Only in last year have significant results been achieved when it comes to strengthening the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia, in all areas. When it comes to improving the standards of members of the Serbian Army, an important decision has been made – a decision to increase the salary of 10% for members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, starting on 1 January 2018. The daily fee for field work and daily fees for service costs at special military facilities as of 1 September is 1,100 dinars, instead of 800 dinars. At the initiative of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army, and in co-operation with the Ministry of Interior and the BIA, the development of a long-term housing project of members of all security structures was launched. Solidarity aid in the case of the birth of a child, which is also for the sake of the innovative policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a professional military figure, or a civilian in the Serbian Army, has been increased to the level of average net earnings in the Republic of Serbia, which is 47,220 dinars. Last year alone, a housing issue was resolved for 173 members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army and military pensioners. A programme to refinance housing loans has been adopted. A deal has been made with most local self-government in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to enrolling the children of professional military personnel in pre-school institutions and a significant effort has been made by the state in this area, as regards the launch of an initiative to abolish participation in providing health care to military insurance. On the grounds of the other amendments, I will continue to deliver significant results that the state has achieved when it comes to strengthening the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia and what should be found in this bill as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31344	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31345	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Article 1. The proposal for a law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia is an introductory member of the law defining the subject matter of this law. With the amendment, I proposed introducing a third position and he would vote – the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia aphids the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and what I put the importance of and the remark is – with a special reference to the functioning of public enterprises. Why public enterprises? Because we know that, among other things, the absence of one such law, in addition to all the bad things we had in the previous period, our public enterprises were in a catastrophic state. With this amendment, I supported this bill and stressed the need to affirm everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done at a time when political responsibility in this country was taken over by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. The act of my amendment is on the better functioning of public enterprises in this period, and what is the newspaper in this sphere, ever since the SNS took responsibility, is the introduction of a public-private partnership, where I repeat again, a law of this kind has been needed for a long time. While earlier in the time of irresponsible yellow authorities, the public sector in which they were forced, I apologize for the expression, crowded personnel, by the arrival of investors, we have turned a negative trend and the destroyed private sector is today the economic engine of this country again. Anyone today can check how reduced unemployment has been in Serbia in the last five years and how an economic Sunflower has been stopped in which Serbia has soared by then. The law defines the national framework for staff policy, and Serbia already needs certain qualifications. That is why the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia and how we need it, and SNS MPs are giving it strong support with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31346	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31347	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, Honored Citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that by adding Article 3. The NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the health system. In view of the fact that even 14% of the adult population, or over 15 years of age, has not completed primary education, and when over 20% of the population does not have finished high school, which is also a problem in the EU where over 64 million adults have not completed secondary education, we come to a problem because that number, or even 1/3 of the population, does not have any qualifications to work. Our government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Responsible Ministry of Responsible Policy have been trying to re-arrange the education system for several years, and we are moving towards a good path. On this occasion, I would also like to commend the work of Minister Sarcevic, who, by the decision of the government of the Republic of Serbia, made such a decision to open a agricultural college in my town of Krusevec, which is indeed commendable, because that is why a region, the Rasinski district, received a state college. It's not just that. Before a certain period, with the investment of the Republic of Serbia's Investment Office and good co-operation with the local government of the town of Kruševac, one project was completed, where one elementary school received over 65 million dinars, and we know that the previous year is indeed remembered for record investment, and only the next year, or 2018, will it be even better. Which means we're really on our way. We move on, and that's why we have the support of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31348	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Olivera Ognjenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31349	Thank you. The proposed amendment adds Article 1 to Article 1 and reads - the NOKS affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on financial stability. The National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is a means to regulate the area of qualifications and integration with the labour market. So far, the major problem has been the lack of compliance of the education system with the needs of the economy and the links between the world of work and the world of education in the process of development and the acquisition of qualifications. The objectives of NOKS are therefore to develop qualifications standards based on the needs of the labour market and society in general. Knowledge becomes a product and the company aims to increase the value of acquired knowledge and skills, and every new creative knowledge gives it a strategic advantage. The knowledge and skills of a single company's human resources are the result of an internal accumulation and cannot be bought and are a competitive advantage. It is waiting for the opening of Chapter Nine relating to financial stability. Harmonisation with the EU's legal fluids creates preconditions for the stability of the financial system. That's why NOX is an integral part. At the same time, it affects improving the position of participants in the financial market, as well as the users of financial services. A more quality and diverse offer of these services is made possible. In this connection, the specific segment is the protection of consumers who are being viewed in their information on services provided by financial institutions. Therefore, it is right to say that the success of the business of modern companies depends on the successful business of material and immaterial property of the company, which is one of the basic conditions of overall development and financial stability of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31350	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31351	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, this amendment further defines the subject matter of this law, i.e. this amendment contributes to the affirmation of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to social equality. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly social equality. Social equality will be achieved through the application of the Law on textbooks, which we had the opportunity to discuss in principle last week, by allowing the Government of the Republic of Serbia to fund equal access to education and education, i.e. to co-finance the preparation, procurement and assignment of textbooks, especially for students from socially and materially endangered families. Dear Ministers Sarčević, the town of Leskovac is a faithful partner with your Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in achieving social equality because significant funds have been allocated from the town of Leskovac for three years ago to buy textbooks for children of primary and secondary schools and socially endangered families. I believe this amendment will contribute to the improvement of the education system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31352	Thank you. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31353	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this amendment further defines the importance of the national qualification framework that will allow for the improvement of the overall education system. With this opportunity, I would like to point out the special importance of transport integration in order to support direct foreign investment, improve the business environment, promote even regional development and allow for better access to cities. The importance of the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia is seen in establishing a link between labour requirements and professional opportunities of a person who will perform a particular job, or meet labour requirements. After many years of incompetent and irresponsible persons whose work led to the closure of factories, the closure of jobs, the collapse of the economy, the fact is that since the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have indicated the trust of the SNS, leadership at the republic and local level has increasingly invested among other things in infrastructure, creating conditions for the better quality of life. By putting an accent on good connections in all modes of traffic, starting with road, via rail, telecommunications, air, many good examples can be discussed for the outcome. As a fact of the above, I'm going to give an example from the municipality from which I come through one situation. In May of this year, the first factory in the industrial zone in the municipality of UB near the highway E 763 Belgrade – South Adriatic shoe factory “Ver difensin International” opens and this drive in Ub municipality will be invested around 1m euros and projections that the number of workers will be over 200 with different levels of education. The Republic of Serbia recognized the importance of traffic integration and through investment in education, a factor in these areas and through good projects is sent a good message to investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31354	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? She's not present. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, fellow Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31355	Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 1 I would like to propose adding the 3rd position -- money is affirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. In that sense, this amendment introduces the improvement of the private sector as one of the changes to this law. As we can see, the aim of this law is to define the national qualification framework. This means regulating the area of qualification as a certificate of acquired knowledge and skills. This is how harmonisation is done with the principles of European educated practice, with a link to the labour market. Given the amendments mentioned, I submit to what I consider to be very important, and that is to improve the private sector of the Republic of Serbia's economy and its further development. We already have established a dual education system, as a direct link between educational institutions and future employers. It is a real step towards creating professional personnel, better business climates and conditions for faster finding basic engagement. What is very important and what we consider a key objective of the role of local self-government is to connect co-operation with employers. For example, just a moment ago, before all the other measures I will speak later, the completion of the most modern polyclinic hospital in Arangelovac, the size of 700 square meters and the total value of more than 500,000 euros. What is particularly important in the construction of a polyclinic work is never better co-operation achieved by local self-government and businessmen from Arangelovac. Almost all of our city's entrepreneurs have joined this action and have pooled funds to bring this project to an end. Also, in 2017, the main project of reconstruction of the entire building of the General Hospital, worth 100,000 euros, is being arranged, and we expect the complete reconstruction of the hospital worth 5m euros this year to begin. The funds for this purpose have been identified by the competent ministries and I am particularly grateful for the help we receive. Soon we will have a health center such as few cities in this part of Serbia, and all this would not be possible without the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the high degree of social responsibility shown by our local businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31356	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. National MP Gordana Komic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31357	Thank you. The argumentation of the last few amendments deeply hesitates me in their claim on the first four that have been well argued, as far as the gender equality of European integration and human resources are concerned. For at least two reasons, very carefully listening to the argument and effort that MPs have made in adding Article 3 to Article 1, the following conclusion is very clear. First, the MP, Mr. Alexic, received two notices after he took the words, as he said there would be a reading of the composition here. Secondly, the content of what we share here is that these are great, super amazing results achieved without the National Qualifications Framework Act. Since the results are extraordinary not at all slow, the right of MPs. (Boban Birmancevic: Always can move faster, stronger, better.) Here you go. What's that? (Alexander Martinovic: Tell me, why weren't you at the vote? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31358	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31359	Tell Ambassador Martinovic? (Alexandar Martinovic: Tell MPs Komic, which you were not at the vote. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31360	Comrade Komic, I apologize, don't throw away your colleague. Go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31361	Who am I calling? Here you go. Come on, run? How's MP Martinovic? Why don't you run to your co-worker? (Alexander Martinovic: Did you take your medication? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31362	Please don't throw it away. We provide for the possibility of Col. Comic continuing his speech. I thank you all. Col. Comić, thank you, excuse me and continue, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31363	You have no reason to apologize to me, just apply the Rules of Procedure. I can do this as long as you can apply the Rules of Procedure. So, uh... (Alexander Martinovic: You didn't take a red tablet, you took a yellow tablet. Oh, my God. So the argument we hear about the amendment they have submitted in the form of a composition is an amazing, verifiable result that has been achieved in each of the areas. My question is – how are the results achieved and without the NOX law proof that the law is necessary? The first thought is that your results with NOX will be even better... (Michajlo Jokic: That's right. There, the messengers shout - that's right. And that's understandable, but then why in the form of composition? That's more, how can I tell you, as tropics, let's call off love only with future good results, which is also legitimate, but what then to remain written traces in the stenogram, also legitimately, but then what did the MP take away the word? He just said it would happen. So, in the arguments of the amendments, the MPs say – excellent results, never seen, best possible, here is evidence, and without the NOX law. And the compositions you share with us – now there will be even better results, and the Messenger said: We have endured all the amendments well, and there will be excellent compositions, and his word is taken away from him. (Michajlo Jokic: Written remains. How can I help you? It remains written, yes, ‘amanet fama vollate script’. There, I come across a general approval to criticise the argumentation of the MPs. So anything is really possible. Why am I sharing this with you? Because with this attitude and will to say the results are great, here are the amendments that the government refuses, to the law with which the results will be even more awesome, we make fun of the procedures together in the National Assembly and the rights and obligations of the MPs. Some who make fun of us are nothing, and some others are taken from us, that's what I wanted to say about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31364	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a folk letter Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31365	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising a breach of members 106th and 107th. Article 106. – the speaker can only talk about the agenda point, i.e. if a national MP has reported that he is talking about the amendment. I don't know why we all here have to listen to how the work of SNS MPs is being undermined, how their work is characterized as a mockery of this House, because we all know it's not true. Article 107. The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Please continue to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to ask the Assembly to declare itself in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31366	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You don't want the assembly to declare itself in voting day, and I'm saying that. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31367	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the esteemed Mr. Minister with his associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, is aimed at submitting this amendment to Article 1. The bill adds Article 3, which reads - NOKS affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the development of medical centres, and thus the affirmation of the health of our citizens. We know that health is the most important thing for a man, and depending on how healthy an individual is, depends on his involvement in society, at work, in the family. That is why we are very concerned with the screenings, i.e. the prevention and preventive checks of our citizens. In line with the action Free preventive checks launched by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, General Hospital "Dr Radivoje Simonović" in Sombor on March 25th of this year organised ultrasound checks, youth checks on malignant melanoma and gynaecological examinations. The reviews could have been carried out by all Somboro citizens, even those who had no regulated health insurance. The citizens of Somboro and the surrounding towns very kindly accepted this initiative by the Ministry of Health and largely responded to these free checks, which primarily have a preventive purpose. Disease prevention is very important, especially as regards citizens, because it is not the same if some disease is detected in the initial stage or later, in the final stage, when it is very difficult to achieve patient healing, and it is very important in a financial sense, because we know how much it costs to treat our citizens, and this way of preventing and early detection of the disease, in the early stages, much faster and more effective treatment, as well as the effects of this treatment. This review covers 280 people. In 58, diseases were found in the primary stage, mostly gynological conditions and were immediately processed for further diagnostics and directed to certain specialists, and one person was detained for hospital treatment. Also, on March 20th, on breast cancer Day, a preventive free mammographic examination of our fellow citizens, aged 50 to 69, was held. The slogan of these breast examinations is – Find time, prevention saves life. These tests have responded to 28 women, of whom five cases of breast cancer were identified at the initial stage. They immediately gave instructions to report to an oncological dispenser for further processing. In addition, there is a free examination of the chair, acute bleeding, and for the prevention of colon cancer. Our country's goal is not to have its citizens sick or less sick than in previous years. This is why these preventive examinations, i.e. screeninses, need to reduce the increasing number of cancers of certain parts of the body and organs, thereby extending the lives of people suffering from this severe disease. Accordingly, it is necessary to continue the education of our citizens regarding their health, the prevention of disease, and the knowledge that they are able to overcome all the difficulties caused by the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31368	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? The word has an Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31369	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted reads: "The national qualification framework affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving economic exchange." In fact, investment in education is certainly an investment, not a state spending. So it's an investment that results in economic growth and state development. Finally, the state has a bright future in the region and the world. If not invested in education, a step is lost with countries whose economies are based on the knowledge of innovation, and these are also the most developed countries. Investment in education increases human capital. Finally, it makes the state's economy become competitive in the region and the world. Namely, the ranking of the most stressful nations published by the UN says that the most educated nations are both the happiest and the richest. Serbia made significant progress in 2018 compared to the period 2010-2012, when we were in an invisible 106th place, for Croatia, Greece, Montenegro. Today we're happier than they are and we're in 78th place. This suggests that we have improved our standard of living, social protection, reduced corruption and unemployment, improved health care services, and, in one word, improved our quality of life. The role of education in economic development and improving economic exchange has also been recognised by the municipalities from which I come. Today, the municipality of Kursumli, headed by the SNS, issued 25 million dinars of municipal budget on behalf of student and student scholarships, starting in 2012, and by 2012, there were 250,000 dinars, therefore, 100 times less than today. Investment in education is the only right path towards economic development and improving economic exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31370	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Zoran Dragisic is not present. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31371	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted to Article 1 the proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "NOX is afirming the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions." The Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Justice Reform from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2013 to 2018 constitute a five-year strategic framework containing key principles, strategic objectives and strategic guidelines which set concrete measures, deadlines, resources and competent bodies responsible for the implementation of activities, the measures set out in the Action Plan for the implementation of the national judicial reform strategy and the fight against corruption for the period from 2013 to 2018 must follow guidelines and may be set in the short, medium and long term, depending on the capacity and necessary activities. The State's major prosecutors actively participate in updating action plans and their activities and deadlines for the implementation of the measures is aligned with labour dynamics, acting by the measures and activities provided for in the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018 and regularly delivering them to the Ministry of Justice, the Commission for the implementation of the National Strategy for Justice Reform and the Agency and the Anti-Corruption Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31372	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the objective of my amendment is to highlight the importance of such a good legislative proposal from the field of education to improve investment in our country. Modern education contributes significantly to the personal development of individuals, the rooting of social and civil values such as equality, tolerance and solidarity, but also enables everyone to come in, stay and advance in the world of work. The dynamics and change in economy are increasingly demanding that the skills and qualifications that we are equipped with in formal education meet to a greater extent the needs of existing and new jobs and professions. In order to ensure a more certain and secure future for our citizens, constant interaction and co-operation between education and the world of work is necessary. The proposed law defines qualifications for the education of competent staff who will be able to meet professionally and adequately the needs of the labour market, the needs of the economy, and their personal needs andafinities. Long-term development, growth of the economy and the arrival of new investments in our country are closely linked to the modern education system. By passing such a good education law, such as the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, we will improve the education system of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore also travel the road to the safe future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31374	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31375	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens, the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia, a law that has been awaited for many years and has in this form answered many questions that were neither easy nor easy to resolve. The problems identified by the economy and the market, by the ministry, have found their solutions with this law, and believe it or not, we have come to problems that we have at different levels of underqualified personnel. This national framework will introduce eight levels. I remind you, from the basic level of education of eight years to the highest level of education, and eight levels will classify all of our staff. What's the problem is, it's not just about information technology, because they're the future, but also about the present and the future, and the past is connected to car mechanics, limos, masons, mollers and other craft services that simply don't have enough frames to work on. One way will certainly be to provide a dual education that has introduced a new practice and a new level in the very education of future staff. I've got to look around and answer to my colleague, they're definitely good. On this day, the state and conditions in which they have been reached, but they certainly must and can be faster, stronger, better, and they will, along with this law and with a set of laws that we have adopted earlier, certainly be. Each region will have an equal chance of development. When we talk about regions, it is my amendment that concerns, a special reference to regional integration, and this regional integration does not only apply to regions within Serbia, but to the general regional integration of banking states. If I tell you that on today in Koceljeva, we have a man from Italy, Poland, Romania who have applied and who are currently working in Koceljev. In one Ubba we have a man from Poland, in Ruma we have from Germans, Poles, Japanese, Indonesian, not to skip anyone, but believe me, regional integration at all levels from the region within Serbia to regional integration at Balkan level, and this very national framework was the condition of all conditions to know where they are coming from, to know what kind of personnel we have, and that those who complete a certain level of education simply know where they can be employed. All my amendments, which will be explained in the next period, are primarily aimed at regional integration. This national framework was overly necessary. In the voting day, all those who think well of both the Republic of Serbia and every region in the Republic of Serbia must also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31376	Thank you, colleague Birmancevic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31378	All the laws we make in the congregation have a predominant goal of developing our economy as quickly as possible, for our economy to be as strong as possible for individuals, or for the citizens of this country to live as possible. This National Qualification Framework Act is directly related to the economy. It is directly in the function of both the economy and the EQF, meaning the European Qualifications Framework. What's this about? It's very important that real people work in the right places. So, these qualifications, we must clearly highlight the mark of what that citizen, or what that student, what that worker knows when he gets some paper. This paper that speaks of his ability must reflect his possibilities with great probability. If we do so in education, then we will solve this problem that we will have a professional ability, that people will work with pleasure, that people will be satisfied with their jobs and that conditions will be created to live better. It is very important that the people and citizens living in our country can leave and should go to Europe, then after these trainings to return because, I say, the exchange of work, the exchange of knowledge is something that is inevitable and which contributes to the development of the whole society. I would point out that within this NOX, it must be solved, Minister, and the problem of nostrification. So, people who come down and want to work, which are primarily our people, must immediately be able to recognize what knowledge they have and where their place is in the economy to make their full contribution, because only a man who finds himself in the right place can show and show his knowledge. On the other hand, we need to know which people and sectors we need to invest in. On the other hand, the addition to NOX is exactly this dual education, but NOX is important for that segment of education where there will be no dual education. So, they must have qualifications that have proved to be virtually impossible so far. Here, I'd like to give you an example of the interest of agroeconomists. This, for example, one who graduates from high school as an agro-economyist, he can neither teach, for example, in the education of knowledge of goods, technology, etc. So he can't find his place in the agronomia. On the other hand, he can't find his place in the economy because he's not a graduate economist. So it must be kept in mind that I am the expression, that the name of the profession itself will be relevant and will be in line with the economy. On the other hand, we need to get into a situation so that we don't make our plans in a year, but we have to make them in at least five years as they used to be. Why? In order for students who finish eighth grade to know which high school they will be enrolled in, when and how they can be employed. On the other hand, those who graduate from high school must know in four, five years which they will need. You know we've had one axis, say, the Faculty of Machines. You can't win today, and you don't have a man on the market who graduated from Engineering. There's a great demand for him because we haven't felt the movement on the market in time and we didn't know that we're going to be missing machine engineers at this point. On the other hand, we have many that are not needed. So this NOX not only solves the problem of the economy and its efficiency, it also solves the problem of unemployment. For example, I read the latest data that, let's say, Germany is looking for 17,000 workers, an occupation – someone else's care and help. They are interested in our people likely to find a catch in those 17,000, but they must be recognized by the qualifications they have, i.e. by their notebook, written on paper, which states that they are able to meet these requirements set up in Germany to carry out these tasks – other people's care and help. Finally, I would like to say that a lot of money has been invested in this education from 2000 to 2015. A lot of money was invested in creating school plans and educational profile programs, but the money didn't go where it needed to go. The money was poured into private pockets. I'll give you an example of one from practice. For example, the business administrator that was introduced to the foreign initiative, it's in the German profession of the third degree. We turned him here and trained him as a fourth-degree profession and then made some changes in general education. I know, like, in math. Some things have been thrown out, simply cut off, without any correlation, and what have we done? In Germany, these business administrators go to school for three days, and for two days they go to practice, and we did and we accepted that and the students went to school for five days, and instead of practical work – two days at work, they had so-called. Virtual takeover. They ran a virtual company and, of course, that generation was completely ruined. She was neither able to go to business, to work, nor was she able to go to college and get that higher education. So these are things that need to be taken care of, and that will solve creation primarily of teaching programs. You know that general educational part, the general section of expertise, that narrow section of expertise, it has to be a mark of qualifications. So, the paper that gets a student who goes to the economy tomorrow, he has to have a high probability of reflecting what he knows, what he knows best, and what he can learn best and fastest to do the job that answers him and answers society, so that it will be good for him and for society. If we succeed, Minister, then, what he says, we will do good for both the individual and the society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31379	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers Sarčević, first of all, I would like to commend the proposal for NOX law, a law that has long been pending and which allows for easier labour mobility and application of learning for the rest of my life, a document without which the employer does not recognise people on the labour market. My amendment is about economic growth and improvement in the fact of economic growth in the Republic of Serbia. There must be a dialogue between government and economy, because it's the only way for the country to progress quickly. The government listens to what the economy and civil society organisations say, which are problems and how to solve them. The previous government has made very difficult unpopular and painful measures to stabilise Serbia, primarily economically. We managed to achieve growth, attract a large number of foreign investors, maintain a domestic economy to expand, which is why we have a reduction in unemployment. Stability is economic, regional and political and conditions for new investments. Without stability, there would be no foreign investors, not even our domestic investors would invest in their own country, but somewhere else. The results in the area of incentives for investment in the period behind us talk about investor confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We're in a situation where we can build because we have a stable basis that has enabled rapid economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31380	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I have submitted the amendment and suggested that Article 1 add to Article 3 which reads: NOKS affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving the work of local self-government. The amendment aims to point out that there is no more important task for all the factors of our society than the development of Serbia, which certainly depends on the good work of local self-government. That is why I think that in this law, in the laws of a similar nature, especially in the laws dealing with the field of education, a place must be found that affirms Serbia's development and stresses the need to improve the work of local self-government. Strong and developed local self-government is the condition of democracy and the rule of law. Unfortunately, in 2012, the SNS found destroyed, robbed, devastated local self-government. Serbia was with the highest unemployment rate and with never more social assistance users. Even worse, if it's worse than this, it was in Vojvodina, especially in the north of Banat, in the New Prince, from which I come. At the time of the former regime's rule, the main news that shocked us all in that part of Serbia was – a folk cuisine opened in the municipality of Novi Knezevic, and that's 31 in a row on the territory of Vojvodina. Unfortunately, it wasn't the last one. Our president, President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, then sent a message to us living in that part of Serbia and said -- the northern Banat will not be a dead sea, it will be the engine of Serbia and Vojvodina's development. After only two years, the engine slowly reaches the maximum number of rotations. Citizens of the municipality of Novi Knezevic already see it today, and therefore, as a percentage of even 71.4%, they declared themselves in the presidential elections for Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31382	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Blaža Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31383	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, the establishment of NOX will primarily benefit participants in the field of work and education, as it will contribute to quality assurance both in the process of work, the results of work, and professional education and training. Therefore, planning for human development cannot be done only quantitatively, but also qualitatively, and this includes education structure, then abilities, skills and experience. Also, information on activities provided or obtained must be based on real information and forecasts of future development of professions, and therefore future employment. A good example is infrastructure, which is the key to the development of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia has understood this well and has set the infrastructure as one of the priorities. Today in Serbia, we have about 12 billion current and planned investments. There are miles of highways, Corridor 10, Nis-Medare-Pristina, Preljina-Požega, Obrenovac-Ub, Lijkovac-LJig, Moravski Corridor Pojate-Preljina, Belgrade-South Jadran, Požega-Sarajevo, bypass around Belgrade, Bubanj Potok-Pancevo, Novi Sad-Rum, Ruma-Shabac, fast traffic Shabac-Loznica-Republica Srpska, railways Belgrade-Budapest, Nis-Dimitrovgrad, reconstruction of the Bar Line and 170 km of reconstructed railways, airports "Nikola Tesla" and Niški airport. Then, the houses, primarily the restoration of houses in the King, and the construction of houses for security structures. All of this guarantees us and gives us the right to think that in the future a job will be provided for a large number of traffic engineers, construction engineers, machine engineers, electric engineers, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31384	Thank you. The People's MP Maja Macužic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Maja Machužic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31385	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, at first I would like to commend the efforts and efforts made to pass such a complex law. I have proposed an amendment that further defines the subject matter of this law from an international aspect. As the NOX Act has just implemented the classification of qualifications in accordance with international standards, I find that the international aspect of this law is very important. The special effect of this law is the recognition and recognition of qualifications, and their international comparison with the European Qualifications Framework. NOX qualification is undoubtedly a powerful instrument for modernising education in Serbia, not only to introduce modern understanding of education, but also in terms of internationalisation of education in Serbia. The NOX is an instrument that creates links and facilitates understanding and interpretation of qualifications between different state and education systems, which increases mutual trust in the recognition of qualifications and mobility in the world labour market. By precisely defining the classifications, this law will allow foreign investors to be more quickly and easier to recognise a qualified workforce and thus make the Republic of Serbia even more attractive to potential investors. I hope that this law will make it easier for investors, such as "Tai Group" and "Leone", who are soon opening their facilities in the Kingdom, to identify and engage adequate labour forces. I am sure that the adoption of this law will lead not only to the improvement of the international position of Serbia's education system, but also to the improvement of Serbia's international position in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31386	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31387	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Sarčević with his associates, respected colleagues, what is a fact and what is certain is that you are one of the members of the government who spends most of his time in this distinguished home in recent months together with us, it is actually proof of the responsibility and the way you approach your own task, but on the other hand, and proof of your intention to seriously reform the Serbian education system. Here after decades and decades of waiting, let me say, we define the ability and skills of each man individually, when it comes to his education, but we define the jobs that he can do. And, of course, that alone contributes to Serbia's development. However, I am somewhere always thinking of noting how important this battle against crime and corruption is and how it contributes to Serbia's development and that it should always be pointed out in every place. I'll tell you why it is when it comes to this law. Namely, do not forget the knowledge and skills of some previous period, especially from these representatives of the then DOS are the use of jobs, but the jobs of breaking up and robbing Serbia, robbing each and every one of us, robbing Serbia's state register. I mean, evidence of whether it is necessary every time to mention it is a lot: circuit funds, "Metals Bank", "Tesla Bank", "North" from Subotica, "Ipislon" leg around Subotica, etc., etc. Hence, this amendment, too, as a reminder that this would not happen in the future, so that skills and knowledge could be used in another way. For example, what is done today when it comes to the government of Serbia and, behold, while we are sitting here in this respected home, a few hours ago the famous IMP Serbian was sold for 67 million Indian TAFE and in a year we will be using these skills to finally have the first Serbian tractor under that name, the famous name IMT. It's big news for Serbia and it's big to say a boost for further work. Hence, this amendment, as a reminder of what has been happening to us in the past and an incentive for what needs to be happening to us in the future, as news today is for IMT. For now, so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31388	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment proposes to introduce the concept of affirmation within the framework of the basic provisions of this law. Affirmations which, as a concept, represent the achievement of a certain result, the achievement of a certain success in work, the success in politics. It is also a confirmation of the results achieved. In the context of the law that you have proposed, Mr. Minister, you should certainly include all those efforts that have something that is above average, something that is extraordinary or averagely good. When it comes to those knowledge, the skills that are a product of formal education, but also of informal education, but also of life experience, these are all frameworks recognised by the proposed law. We have spoken on the subject of this law, but others who are in close contact with it, that there are sectors that can truly recognise the importance of all these sources for different knowledge or competences that can really represent the above-average results. In particular, everything we together welcome as efforts towards modernising Serbia so-called. the information communications sector. In that sector, when we talk about the above-average good results, last year we only achieved over 20% growth, 21.5%. So, in continuity, for three years in a row, stable growth of over 20%. In total, it represents in a year nine hundred million euros in exports only and therefore one fantastic example of how knowledge can be translated into a direct benefit. The benefit for society, ladies and gentlemen, which by the state and us who in the National Assembly, among other things, care for the state means creating appropriate frameworks. Where there is a serious and responsible relationship, there is no lack of results. So we're just making a modern society, a knowledge-based society and good results, all the opposite of a sad DOS palace as some of us can only make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31390	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31391	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to the National Qualifications Framework Act and it proposes to speed up the development of municipalities and cities, and thus the Republic in general. First, municipalities and cities through their participation, primarily through primary and secondary education and education, contribute to better and higher levels, to quality education of labour market personnel, i.e. primarily for economic development. So invested in education and education is returned through work in the economy. Secondly, when these well-trained personnel contribute to their jobs, a new quality of development of municipalities and cities is obtained, and thus the Republic of Serbia as a whole. This all takes place on the increased standard and quality of life of each of us, individuals, in this country, which is the goal of every society and state in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31392	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Manojlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1. I proposed that the draft law be added to Article 3 which reads that money afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the strengthening of economic resources, and for the reason that I believe that this amendment further defines the subject of this law. Mr Minister, you and your associates have in the course of the debate detailed the proposal for this law and explained the reason for its adoption, as well as the reason for the emergency procedure, which is exactly the amount of 27.4m euros we will receive from the IPA Fund, or EU Access Funds. Unfortunately, today we have heard from individual representatives of the opposition that they continue to object that some education is expensive, asking why, what, how, how, how much, despite you saying this is funded by the EU, and even if it is expensive for them, in their case, how they led our country until 2012, we can best see how much ignorance can be even more expensive, so the previous government has left 400 thousand workers out of work from 2008 to 2012. There were so many left without a job from 2001 to 2008. I am saying this because this law regulates the field of qualification and connects itself with the labour market and for the first time, truly, commendablely, business is being asked and heard about its needs. Otherwise, here I would like to add, since I come from Kruševec, at the end of 2016, the Kruševec oil factory was, to say, a kind of pioneer at the beginning of what you set as a large pillar of dual education, and what this law is nothing but a good support. In addition to social conditions, which are a political and economic system, human resources are included in economic resources. Thanks to this government, the previous government, thanks to Mr. Alexander Vukic, we have managed to raise the Republic of Serbia to one much higher level in each respect. These objections as to why we boast that we have achieved, we add something to the law, because we want Serbia to progress, because we want Serbia to develop, to be even better than it is today, although according to all indicators of both the World Bank and the IMF, that Serbia is 43rd in the "Doing Business List", that it has progressed by four places, that the World Bank is announcing GDP growth of 3% and that the level of public debt has fallen to only 57%, the first time it is under the Mastricht. We want to provide workers who were out of work, who were so-called. The collateral damage of the government by 2012, which made the Serbian economy an economical invalid, but also that of these children who are due to attend school today, and I don't know whether knowingly or unconsciously some of the opposition, are persistently forgetting to add that it is a system of education, but they also forget education, whether it is deliberate or unintentional, some Serbian citizens estimate it. What I would like to say is that my colleagues and I would like to join your congratulations to the champions who signed up for school today, to wish them and their parents good luck, that the next day they would be a strong backbone for Serbia's development, a strong Serbia as we, I hope, will leave them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31394	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31395	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia in the sense that Article 1 after Article 2 of Article 3 is added, with the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia, to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. Namely, the concept of the rule of law as a synonym or equivalent to rule of law is a fundamental principle that the state of Serbia applies by adopting these or similar laws, all in order to affirm overall development. The constant idea of rule of law comes down to a request for the right, limited and responsible political authority whose action for the purpose and purpose is to achieve and protect the widest human rights and freedoms corpus. One of the elements of the rule of law are also the corresponding properties of the law as the most important acts of government, which are the generality, clarity, stability and internal moral value, that is, justice, which fulfils this law, which is why its law and application affirms the development of the Republic of Serbia from the aspect of the rule of law. The Recommendation of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament on the establishment of a European Qualifications Framework invited candidate countries to coordinate national qualification systems by establishing appropriate relations of their qualifications with relevant levels of the European Qualifications Framework and develop national qualifications frameworks in accordance with national legislation and national practice. The problems that this law needs to address are largely due to the lack of a legal framework for their resolution, and in part because the existing legal framework has not sufficiently provided conditions for establishing a system of education that is in line with practical needs. By adopting the law, the Republic of Serbia unequivocally advises that it has the necessary capacity to join the EU, which calls for further public affirmation of its constant development in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31396	Thank you, colleague Bulatovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31397	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, which aims to further define the subject matter of this law. Given the reforms that have been implemented in the Republic of Serbia so far, and regarding the improvement of the education system, it is clear that the law we are discussing is in fact just a continuation of such reforms by building a system and supporting such reforms. The goal is to draw closer to the world of education for the labour market and to listen to the needs of businesses and simply to catch up with technological achievements and what practical achievements are. It is an opportunity to enable employment and create conditions for employees to respond to the demands of a new working environment, but for their work and knowledge to be valued and prices. In the context of personal and professional development, whether it is formal or informal, in order to train, perfect or just to change jobs, all individuals have the opportunity to have their acquired competences actually formally and formally recognised. In this way, it will ensure that the labour market performs a job that is more valuable, achieves more results and delivers maximum results and that the economy participates in the creation of qualifications. The national framework is the basis for applying the concept of lifelong learning, especially when we have in mind the recovery of the Serbian economy that has fallen in previous years and a flat investment in all our regions, it is very important that we keep this in mind and allow as many people as possible to get a job and simply predict mechanisms that will monitor labour market needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31398	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31399	Thank you very much. Honorable Ministers with Associates, Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Provision of Article 1. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia lays down the subject matter of the Bill, which for the first time regulates the qualification system and connects it with the European Qualifications Framework, which will ensure that qualifications are comparable, i.e. labour mobility on the European market will be encouraged. The proposed amendment refers to the addition of Article 1 of that law, by adding Article 3 which I find the law affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rights of displaced persons. In this context, I am apostropheic of the fact that displaced persons are the most endangered category of people facing huge problems in all spheres of life. Multiple analyses of the situation of displaced persons show that their biggest problems are housing, access to information and employment, as well as lack of basic documents. Also, displaced faces characterize a low degree of autonomy, i.e. members of the internally displaced population have a difficult access to employment in the wake of long inactivity and skills shortages, which contributes to their dependence on social assistance. The Republic of Serbia permanently creates conditions for qualifications for the quality, dignity and safe life of displaced persons, and actively helps to return to the place of origin or integration in the place of life. The resolution of displaced persons is based on the principles of respect for human rights, respect for the human dignity of each individual, information and volunteering decisions, the availability of rights and conditions on equal grounds for all, the active participation of displaced persons in finding the best solutions. With regard to the possibility of education, it should be pointed out that displaced persons have the same right to education, with basic education mandatory and free, and secondary and higher education depending on the success of candidates being financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia or through self-financing. The problem of availability in education is the difficult material situation of large numbers of displaced families, the difficulty in funding secondary school education and colleges outside their home, as well as the lack of information on the possibilities of supporting this problem. The existing legal framework in the field of education, above all the Law on Student and Student Standard, provides for students from sensitive social groups, including refugees and displaced persons, to exercise rights in the area of student and student standards by applying softer criteria prescribed by the minister of education. Also, the Ministry of Education every school year in the framework of a regular competition under more favourable conditions provides accommodation, nutrition, as well as the granting of loans and scholarships to students from sensitive social groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31400	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31401	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, in the day of voting by my fellow SNS and I will vote in favour of the proposed National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia, but today I propose that Article 1 of this law add to Article 3 approving the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to growth in the economy. In the long run, further growth in the economy is about ending the reforms that have been launched, primarily in the education system, but also in the state administration. With this in the next medium term, reforms in the field of labour market and education are expected to continue, the introduction of a dual education system, which will ensure the integration of qualified labour force with the real needs of the labour market. In the coming period, real net earnings in the private sector are expected to grow in productivity in the economy. Real growth will also contribute to a minimum labour price increase from 1 January 2018, from 130 to 143 dinars per working hour, which will positively reflect the aggregate demand and achieve a positive fiscal effect. The increase in the number of employees was registered in all manufacturing sectors, while the most significant improvements were achieved in the services and industry sectors. Of course, to maintain this trend in the coming period, it is very important to bring employment and education policy into line with the needs of the labour market in order to adapt the level of knowledge and skills. In the end, I must say that the results of Minister Sarcevic and his associates are fantastic, and the crown of success is also this law as well as the Law on Dual Education, which we adopted at the end of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31402	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31403	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the state of education is getting better because of the efforts of the minister and his team working on the bill's proposals. In that sense, I will only list some of the newspapers that have already produced results in practice. A unique information system for education has been introduced and detailed records of children and employees have been detailed. The parents' responsibility for enrolment in school, regular teaching, lack of justice has been introduced, and the criminal responsibility of parents is provided for. A ban on conduct that offends the reputation, honor and dignity of all actors in the educational process has been introduced. Data are higher school powers regarding co-operation with the Centre for Social Work and Local Self-Government. As far as secondary education is concerned, there is a reform in which the focus of modern teaching is on students and learning, a greater choice of programmes and the introduction of information and communication technologies. The higher education for which there are plans to be a driving force for the entire education system and society in general by 2020 will include a minimum of 50% of the generation of high school graduates. The legal framework for an even better system of education will also make this law when adopted, whether the Assembly adopts this amendment in the voting day or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31404	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The amendment is proposed by Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31405	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, when your laws come into debate in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then somehow, in principle and in particular, forgets the economic effect your economic laws bear. Your ministry, Mr. Minister, should give a key response to the functioning and you are trying to do so how the fiscal resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget that go through your ministry, which are intended for the education of individuals, should we continue to subsidise whether institutions dealing with education and education or to go directly financing individuals. It's a theoretical problem that came about in the '50s after World War II ended and the vouchers that were given to veterans in America. The question that relates to this question is whether the monopoly we have to break, i.e. to perform a demonopolisation, or fiscal decentralisation of the education system in Serbia, means that we can, in the system of education that is now working or that will function to preserve and maintain the advantage of the basic system of values, which is necessary for a society to function effectively. The funds that the state of Serbia allocates for your ministry are not small, these are 197 billion, i.e. a billion and 640m euros. That's the sixth budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the sixth budget of the Republic of Serbia implies that these funds must have a significant impact on the macroeconomic stability and functioning of the Serbian state. What you do with this law and what we do with the amendments is actually an attempt to solve the accumulated problems in the field of education that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31406	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31407	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the amendment that I have submitted -- NOKS affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to strengthening the state system. I welcome the proposal for this law in light of the overall reform processes in the field of education and I consider it as a positive direct link to the labour market and the decident arrangement of the qualification system, after which, I would say too much in the past time where they have changed dramatically and are not in line to a significant extent with the labour market and qualifications frameworks. With a significant note that this law covers all levels and types of qualifications and thus enables the integration and coordination of the existing qualification system in the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, the NOKS internal plan supports reform processes that will improve the education system so that competent individuals who can meet labour market needs and society as a whole come out of it. While internationally, on the other hand, NOKS is part of European integration and integration with the European Qualifications Framework. I conclude that this amendment would complete and confirm the affirmation of the development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to strengthening the state system. Also, I must mention and support the enormous effort that the Ministry of Education, the Government, as well as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic himself, are investing in reform processes, especially education, and that in the Ministry of Education, reforms you have joined comprehensively despite the regulation of the legal frameworks of the brunette, take care and improve the conditions in which our children listen daily to teaching. There's a big job ahead of you, because it's just those who criticize the work of the government and the Ministry of Education who should look behind themselves and what our children have left behind, and that's a huge number of elementary and secondary schools where children don't have basic conditions for staying and listening to classes. I will mention this at only one elementary school, it is the basic school "Nikola Tesla" in Golobok, in Smederjevska Palanca, which you ministers have recently visited, and I believe that you have established in what conditions these children live and work, without floors, without water, forced to use the Polish toilet, which is very difficult to reach, in extremely poor hygiene conditions. As I understand it, they will join the emergency recovery of the school after the ministry's decision, and later reconstruction of the entire school, so that I can really now once again praise the efforts of the government and the Ministry of Education that bring us back to the 21st century, where our children and individuals from the former structures of the government left us, almost in the 18th century.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31408	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31409	Just to confirm what you said, it's all true. The school is in very bad shape, it's literally falling apart, the whole building, the floors, but they work very well even in these conditions. But they still have a Polish toilet, amazing. I didn't see it anywhere but there. A lot happened last year, 396 schools were done, close to four billion, but what we were able to do urgently, and there wasn't even a project, so we found the money. We had a budget reserve, that projects were being done urgently, and that even a building with teaching apartments, such a school defined it to be one really new library, information and everything, so hopefully next year we'll end it all up and do it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31410	I thank the ministers. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31411	Very short. I liked the discussion of a colleague who had just spoken, and it's a good thing she had the courage to attack both the minister and this government and the previous government, because it's a shame that in this period, in this time, we have such a school as she described in the village, but another message to the minister. Minister, you were obviously with the then Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, attending schools when you promised, or when Vukic promised to take care of the toilets and everything else in the schools, and this is not the only school that the colleague described. Unfortunately, there's still plenty of schools like that, so take a walk and fix this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31412	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31413	I said a year and seven months ago, when I took office, that I would be out of Belgrade at least twice a week. I'm more often. Over 70% of the municipalities, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it I couldn't do it all in one run, I have to do something here. And again, I've said it many times here, and I don't need a report until I see who I'm dealing with and what kind of people they are, it's not just a building. Neglect is a big category. There's been a lot of work done in a little while. This year, I'm sure that record will go down, and I'm sure the money will be given to those facilities that I've visited with my associates and video. And before that, it must have been going for someone else, related, and who knows what relationships, so someone's done something on the building for the 16th time, and this will stand until the day of judgment. Since it's different when you see it, you have all this in mind and plan, you have direct co-operation with local self-government, no matter who's in power, so I go to schools whoever rules them there in municipalities, I look at children, buildings, everything that's my job. So you don't have to remind me, I'm doing it intensely, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31414	I thank the ministers. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31415	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, I am on the basis of Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia submitted an amendment to the proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. Amendment in Article 1. The bill reads -- item 3, which reads: "The national qualification framework afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the stability of the dinar course." This amendment aims to further define the subject matter of this law. The stability of the dinar course is of paramount importance to our country. A stable dinar stimulates economic development. What I want to stress is that due to the stability of the dinars, we were able to finance from the Republic of Serbia's budget the construction of a section of the Serbian-Levosoja highway, on Corridor 10, which will be the driver of economic development in the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities. The key to economic development is certainly the political stability that we have in these municipalities. I expect the 10 shares I mentioned in Corridor, the Serbian House of Levosoje, to be completed in a few months and thus to encourage investors to invest their capital in southern Serbia. This creates conditions for new jobs, for young people to have a chance of employment, for learning skills to be applied specifically in practice, and for helping the wider social community. The Republic of Serbia has awarded 20 million and 556 000 dinars or 312 scholarships through the Office of the Municipality of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje, which is: Presevo – 174 scholarships, Bujanovac – 124 and Medvedja – 14. Student scholarships of 10,649.470 dinars for 19 students at the University of Novi Sad or 45 000 dinars per month, and students are also from the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31416	Thank you, colleague Mitrovica. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31417	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the need to adopt this legislative solution, I have submitted an amendment to be made in Article 1. The bill added Article 3, which reads "NOX affirms the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving the conditions of the military and police". In light of the overall reform processes in the areas of education and the achievement of the objectives set out in the development documents of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to define the national qualification framework. The establishment of NOKS will benefit all interested participants in the field of work and education, as the established framework contributes to quality assurance, both the results of the work process and professional education and training. The establishment of NOKS will allow unique statistical monitoring of education, coordination, education and employment records, as well as comparison with other systems in the European Union. NOKS users are state institutions, public services, funds, businesses, realisers of the education programme. State entities affecting the education and employment system have a direct benefit from the establishment of NOKS, and in the part of the planning of the development of human resources, education and employment. Speaking of results, members of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia have in recent years produced record results in several areas. During 2017, police seized 4.1 tonnes of narcotics, which has been the best result in the last 10 years, and 1,668 people have been processed for selling and holding drugs. Thanks to the sacrificed and effective police work, the trend of reducing the crime rate has continued, and 91,283 crimes have been committed in the year after us, the smallest number in the last 10 years. Looking at this period, the least criminal acts of murder have been committed, while the number of car accidents has been reduced by 17%, i.e. the average in the last 10 years. In 2017, members of the interior ministry shut down, prevented the spread of 31,328 fires, issued more than two million passports, ID cards, driver's licenses and traffic permits, and control of nearly 69 million passengers was carried out at border crossings. Also, members of the Ministry of the Interior gave 20,815 lectures on child safety for participants in the fourth and sixth grade of primary schools. A team of dedicated interior ministry professionals in the previous year worked day and night for Serbia and the results talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31418	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31419	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the amendment I have submitted further defines the subject of this law, with special reference to the rights of the child. The education of children, the acquisition of qualifications and knowledge that is applicable on the labour market in fact directly affects poverty reduction. UNICEF studies have shown that the largest number of children in Serbia who finish eight years of school do not continue schooling and are usually children from the poorest families, in which parents have the lowest qualifications. Education is a condition for a long-term solution to the problem of poverty. Studies also show that the impact on the achievement of education has a socio-economic status of the family, as well as demographic factors. It is impossible to enter each family individually and to influence the conditions in which children first learn about school, education, education. Otherwise, in the family itself, children’s attitude toward education depends heavily on their parents. How, then, does it affect the motivation of children who come from such families? How do they care about the teaching process? By changing the environment in schools, the quality of motivation is actually one of the key factors in educational achievement. That is why I would like to commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, who together are making a great effort and great means to adapt, to rebuild schools, to invest in the technical equipment of schools. I would also very much like to commend the introduction of information as a mandatory fifth grade class class class, because I think that in this century digitisation is very important for future staff to be written in information. As a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, as well as a parent, in everything I do, I try to make one of the priorities a protection of the rights of the child. I think it's our duty, I don't think, to think it's our duty and obligation to protect our children and their right to education. Children are our future, but children are our present. We now recognize their talents, now we invest in their education, and now we build a future. That's why I think it's very important that this law puts emphasis on the rights of a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31420	Thank you, colleague Mijatovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31421	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, my amendment concerns the development of health care in our Republic of Serbia within the framework of NOX. As a doctor, I have devoted my entire working life to preserving the health of our fellow citizens, so that the population is healthy, everyone has to worry about the lives of everyone, not just thinking about their own material benefits. I'll give you an example of the unwitting conduct of the arrogant private in Loznica. Namely, the arrival of "Farmacoma" for the owner of the Zajac mine and existing smeltshops, the health of people in the area, the small mining site and the surrounding area has been greatly disrupted. The existing filters on high furnaces couldn't absorb five times as large, call, production in them, where the least melting ore, and the most suspicious hazardous waste that came from all over the world, and even from Australia. All of this has resulted in negative consequences for everyone's health, including children. The Institute of Public Health of the Republic of Serbia, Batut, has on several occasions worked on an analysis of the blood and children of school age, as well as of the adult population to the presence of lead in the blood in Zajaca. More than 80% of the children sampled had a lead level above the allowed upper limit, which is 10 micrograms per decilitre of blood. Even a 16-month-old baby had 16 micrograms of lead in her blood. Most of the pregnant women in the area were anemic, and most of the workers did not have certified health books, which means that the owner did not pay social or pension insurance for them. Most of the salary was paid by hand to avoid obligations to the state, most of the patients in the area are unfortunately malignancies, especially young people. A young man barely survived the burn caused by the havary on a high furnace, pouring a hot mass on him. He's been treated at VMA for months, and my question is, did he get any damages from the company, he told me he got to keep quiet. As the SNS came to power, the company, fortunately stopped working. The new government of Mr. Alexander Vucic recognized the major problem of the dangerous dump, created as a result of the boastful business, along the R113 regional road itself and provided huge funds for the recovery of it. The current government has continued, and the work is under way. I hope this kind of ecological disaster never happens again and nowhere, and the culprit gets what he deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31422	On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. The word is Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr. Sarčević, the honored guests of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1, the basic provisions governing the subject of this law are contained. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the national framework for Serbia's qualification, where the amendment further defines the subject matter of this law. In Article 1 The bill, after Article 2, adds Article 3, which reads: "The NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the health system." By 2012, Serbian healthcare had not met the evaluation criteria as part of the European health consumer index, the Eurohelt consumer index, and when it met the criteria, it was convincingly the worst estimate. A sufficient indicator of the condition in which we found our health care. Just to remind you that for the first time in Serbian health history, do you hear, for the first time in Serbian health history, we had a doctor and pharmacist strike in 2003. Do you know whose government it was from 2003 to 2004? When were 15,000 doctors organised by doctors' and pharmacists' unions in Serbia protesting? The pressure we were under, I felt best on my skin, because I was one of the strike organisations as the president of the Doctors' Union and Pharmaceuticals for Southeast Serbia. For the past two years, the most important achievement is that we have stopped the sundial of health and laid the basis for modern and functional health, and in line with European standards. It's not just our grade. The already recognised international factors that have estimated that Serbian healthcare has progressed 12 places over the past two, three years and is no longer the worst in Europe. Serbia now holds a 24th position, ahead of eight EU countries and has brought the country's top progress in 2016. This trend continues today, so we continue to establish a faster, more efficient and more quality health system in Serbia. One of the biggest ventures launched by the government of Aleksandar Vukic, and continued by the government of Ana Brnabic, is the reconstruction and construction of four Clinical Centres totalling 200m euros. You heard well, 25 billion dinars, and only at KC Nis wastes 32.5m euros. Also, the Nis cardio-surgery clinic, which began in February 2014, is one of the most modern clinics in the region. This solves the problem of complex operations that are no longer being carried out in Belgrade alone, and the waiting list has been reduced. During one year, 250 to 300 times were intervened at the clinic mentioned. In the end, I would invite all MPs of this esteemed home, and especially the Nish MPs, to vote in favour of my proposed amendment in the day of voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31424	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here in this debate in particular, it seems to me that some of the mantras mentioned by former regimes and opposition in principle, continue in particular, and that doesn't surprise me. What always prevails are the two opinions and the two attitudes set out in these laws, and I have therefore submitted this amendment. One view is that we only imitate our legislation for the sake of EU membership. However, they must know that this is our secondary goal. The primary goal is that our legislation, and in the field of education, be arranged and be in the interest of citizens, to finally create a legal state, one that we did not have until 2012 and which is not easy to do as citizens expect from us in the past and in the coming period. The second attitude that prevails is that we of our citizens and our children should make cheap labour for foreign investors, that they are exploited etc. In my opinion, however, only an illiterate man can say that society and the entire system of society should not move in line with the technological and historical moment in which this society is located. As far as I can see, many of my colleagues live in the SFRY era, and some of them led us on Sundays, we know that we're also handling computers rather than driving a car with oxes. It seems to me that because of these reforms, which are being implemented and which are exclusively in the interests of our children, because of them we want to create people who will be able to care for their families and to base their families, not slave labor, which is unskilled and what it has had to get out of Serbia, because they didn't have the proper expertise, or knowledge, or the work they've lost, but now that Alexander Vukic, his government, is back two, and since the President of the Republic, now they're guilty of what we have in education, and it's debated whether all schools have been reconstructed. Have all the schools been renovated? I believe not. Are they in better shape than they were five or six years ago? Far better. So there's a result. Now, yes, we are, I guess the less we use this paper in the education system, and I see that some fellow MPs are transferring why someone has to read their presentation. Here, I haven't even looked at the paper, I've got it, and it's still acting like it's a big sin. Imagine, I'd ask these political sizes as they were at the beginning of their careers, if they'd read, if anyone'd helped them, if anyone had been preparing their discussions and, most importantly, especially those who were getting it, could not interfere with me, had they been nervous? Were they afraid that their environment would react to their exposure? How will their family respond? How's their bosses doing? They forgot how they felt when they became MPs. Excuse me, dear colleagues, since I see someone laughing, the National Assembly is a political arena, a conflict of political opinions and attitudes, and one cannot call a debate in the Assembly by competing for a reading badge. He insulted every MP, every one of his fellow Members, because they forgot what it looked like when they first spoke. It's not even a reading room, it's a National Assembly and nobody here is learning to read. If someone thinks that they know so much about politics, here, I say that there is no one who knows everything and who learns everything and learns everything every day, it's just that some people will never learn anything, not because they lack intelligence, but because they lack what they carry from family, from home, and it's a nice education. That's what they came here to insult the MPs and insult the younger colleagues who have yet to learn this job and make progress. He who defends those who insult his colleagues is nothing different from those. When it comes to warnings, someone gets a word warning, someone gets an insult, and someone gets one by 2012, and when he presses the word button.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31426	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national envoy, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31427	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, Ministers, through the amendments I have submitted, I would like to highlight the importance of co-operation between science and economy. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development to this end, at the initiative of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, formed a Council for Co-operation of Science and Economy. The Council's goal is to bring together the academic community and the business community. This co-operation will contribute to a more modern market, as innovation is the only way to survive in modern business conditions. For the first time in one council on this topic, all relevant factors that are relevant, on the one hand, for the development of the market are dealt with. On the other hand, the academic community is getting information from the economy on what educational profiles are actually the market needed. I welcome the establishment of this council, and I hope that the balance will finally be established between the staff we are studying and the staff who need the market in modern business. The needs of the economy are changing, and in order to continue economic development it is important to see changes in time. What I would point out on this topic is a kind of appeal to pay more attention to the training of high school students, whether students, for private entrepreneurship. If during education we encourage individuals to plan and develop their own potential, we can increase the number of academic citizens who, while respecting the interests of economy and markets, put their knowledge into the role of developing their own business, i.e. the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31428	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31429	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for a society that wants to develop and become a modern European society is the topic of education, perhaps the most important topic to discuss, and this shows both the SNS and its programme and its plans. This ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia show how they treat education, our children, schools, primary schools, high school, high school and colleges, but this also shows the opposition in a nice way and shows the citizens of Serbia that they are actually not interested in the subject of education and it shows in a simple way that there are only a few here today in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For the country, education is one of the most important but also a matter of security. Our country is on the side of Kosovo and Metohija and the situation that is currently there are certain security threats, but by strengthening our security, military and police, as our previous colleagues have said, we show that this country's leadership is extremely important to us. When I said that the issue of education for SNS is one of the most important issues, we showed it at the end of the previous year, when we passed the Law on Dual Education, we also show this to the proposals for laws that are on the agenda today. Of course, we talked here about not having to take those words away, which happened today at the beginning of the session. So he doesn't have to chair any of us to take away the word. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia either give us the floor to talk or send us under censorship, as some did in the Belgrade elections on March 4th of this year. Rich and successful societies are just the ones dealing with education, which are involved in education, which deals with the quality of their children's education. The poor are those who put the subject in the loop and who are dealing with how they as politicians and their tycoons are getting richer. That's why Serbia was poor, that's why Serbia was corrupt, which is why in Serbia factories didn't open until 2012 but shut down, which is why people were out of jobs. Today the situation is completely different. Today in Serbia, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and this government, factories are opening up, jobs are opening up, schools are being renovated, colleges are becoming more and more respected and with higher global rankings. This is the future we offer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and which the citizens recognize very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31430	Thank you. National MP Snezana R. Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Snezana R. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31431	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and respected citizens of Serbia, in the framework of the overall reform processes in the field of education, it was very important and necessary to define NOX as an instrument to regulate the area of qualifications and integration with the labour market. In order to add, to define the subject matter of this law, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law adding the 3rd vote – that NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability. Tax responsibility is something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing with maximum commitment, daily, struggling with all those factors that do not work in the context of tax liability, making sure that the tax liability is raised to a maximum level. In order for the tax awareness to rise to a level and to conduct tax policy correctly in the Republic of Serbia, certain preconditions are needed, and thus the affirmation of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the economic and development of each individual on his professional and developmental engagement in society, which is defined by the NOX in any case. The labour markets will be focused in the coming period and in the future on the demand for personnel trained to work in the IT sector, innovation and technological development, in all areas of activity, both production processes, both agriculture, healthcare, service activities and others. That the government is leading a responsible policy and in the direction of human development, also proves the government's quest to form a cabinet of Ministers of Innovation and Technological Development, to announce the opening of scientific parks where young people will have the opportunity to show their knowledge, to do their scientific and research work, to stay in their country and to contribute fully to the development of economy and society. In that sense, I believe that the NOX Act that defines this activity is very important and important and this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31432	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31433	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 1 where, in addition to the basic meaning of this amendment, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is affirmed, with a special reference to improving business. The fellow Members have submitted a number of amendments to Article 1 indicating the importance of this law and its adoption. If I were the law, we could see through some good examples, positive examples of which we need to imitate. I would mention the company "Tiger Tyres" from Pirota, which is 100% owned by France's Michelin, where the focus of management is on the frame, or on the worker. Every year, almost all workers and management are subject to tests, permanent education, training, etc. and thus "Mischelin" or "Tiger Tyres" is one of the most successful companies in our country. From this example, we can see that all companies that have come back to Serbia for several years not only bring this new spirit as well as how to treat workers, but also establish a new relationship with the worker through, as I said earlier, permanent education. So it's very important to give that example, because the company, currently with the average net earnings, is about 50% above the republican average, where workers receive up to 100,000 dinars, which should really be an example for other companies, both abroad and domestic companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31434	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Radoslav Cokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31435	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, I have suggested that Article 1 of this law add to Article 3 which reads – NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on budgetary stabilisation. What does that mean for budget stabilisation? We, through the education of quality personnel that we can quickly employ and that they generate income, have better budgeting and even better than it is now, although it was a pleasure to hear from Ana Brnabic yesterday that compared to the expected budgeting we have 36 billion more. This is certainly the government's success and we expect even better results in the coming period. Mr. Minister, you've improved for the ministry's work significantly stabilized him and in relation to some of the past times, we don't have any problems that we've had in the ministry, and these are very frequent strikes, labour suspensions, one anarchy, children on the streets. Today everyone is doing their job and you are proposing laws that are European, that lead us to where our goal is and where we intend to go. The term “knowledge and calling ” was often used here today. This is exactly the law we want to underline the sign of equality between knowledge and calling, and let me just give you one example that's not so new, but it's left in my memory and I think it's affecting my life, so it's not bad for me to put a few sentences short. When I was in college, one of my teachers came back from foreign specialist studies, not to speak from which country. He said he normally went to classes, radio exercises, like we did, and when the time came of the exam, a professor entered an amphitheater who, like this hall, shared tasks and went outside. Everyone expected him from some gallery to watch what was going on, but three hours of people were doing the exam and no one came in to check what was in the O.R. When the professor came in, it ended, the professor asked his colleague himself – well, you had the opportunity to use literature, to consult someone. He slightly smiled and answered him – my father and I have a factory and I came here to learn and it is primarily important to me to acquire knowledge, not calling. Just allow me, Chairman, to say what is certainly not about the amendment. I'm from Smederevska Palanka. There, the SNS achieved an impressive result. In fact, since I've been running since 1992, since the first multilateral elections, there's never been such a convincing victory, so 37 terms of office of 49, how many congregations there are. We expect that with this election result and this starting base, we will slowly overcome the difficulties we have and we, as part of the Danube County, will draw closer to the standard and employment that we are now facing. Has the town of Smederevo. This result would definitely be, despite the congratulations that I give to the people who worked from the municipal board, from the executive board, that it would not have been the head of the list, i.e. that the list was not called Alexander Vukic, in whom the citizens of Šumadija have confidence, it is seen who they are ready to stand and solve problems, which he now carries on his back and with whom he is struggling and wants to resolve issues that have not been resolved in this country for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31436	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31437	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Qualifications Framework Bill will address the problem of non-compliance of the qualification system with the needs of the economy. I would especially like to emphasise those leading to an increase in the infrastructure capacity of the Republic of Serbia. How important that is and how much work we can see at every turn. The highways are being built all over our country, and a few days ago we could see that the largest tunnel on the Lykovac-Lig section was breached on Corridor 11. Shares Ub – Lajkovac and LJig – Preljina are already finished, and currently it is the shares of Surčin – Obrenovac, Obrenovac – Ub and Ljkovac – LJig. And this highway from Obrenovac to Cačka will be finished before the end of this year. This corridor will greatly improve the living conditions of the people of western Serbia and it is one of the preconditions for the arrival of investors for new jobs and for the rest of our population in that area of our country. Also, traffic safety needs to be mentioned. The construction of this corridor will move most of the traffic on the highway from the Ibar highway, where unfortunately we have an increased number of car accidents with severe consequences and fatal outcomes. Serbia gets a modern highway, safe, and this part of our country has a chance for accelerated economic development. I would like this amendment to pay special attention to this important segment of our country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31438	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31439	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Sarcevic and his associates, respected citizens, have submitted an amendment to improve the text of the law, all in order to bring foreign investors and investments into the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. Every year, the town of Leskovac brings a programme for the protection of the planning and use of state land on the basis of which the state agricultural land is being carried out and the procedure itself is being leased, and around 1,600 hectares of farmland have been issued so far. First of all, it is the land of former social enterprises, which, due to its long-standing non-treatment, has been grown by corn plants and bushy growth. The ultimate goal is to bring agricultural land, as an unrenewable natural resource, to its primary purpose and to create the possibility for potential investors to reach serious agricultural areas and to deal with agricultural production. Also, the city of Leskovac since 2012 has been bringing plans to defend against floods in which funds are allocated for preventive activities in the management of rivers and canals that pose a potential danger to swimming. About 20 million dinars have been invested in the construction of water streams and canals over the past period. More than 127 million dinars were paid out of the city register, on behalf of agricultural incentives, between 2013 and 2017. In December alone last year, an additional 823 agricultural producers amounting to nearly 18 million dinars were paid. The subsidies in agriculture in the last five years have received a total of 3,320 agricultural producers. Some 11 million dinars were spent from 2014 to 2017 to obtaining anti-building missiles that were distributed to the shooters, of course from the Leskovec city budget. Also, in 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the financial participation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the town of Leskovac, of course, achieved several very important projects and the ministry participated up to 70% of the value of the projects. With the rehabilitation and arrangement of the Atarian roads, this project, of 144 settlements, covers 90 and the value of the project is 62 million dinars in three years. A total of 167km of atar roads were recovered. The ministry helped the city in 2014 with 60%, in 2015 with 50% worth of projects, and in 2016 with 47% worth of projects. The second project is a land-commassion project. This project covers 1,100 hectares in three settlements. The project was implemented in 2014, 2015 and 2016, and the ministry took part with 70% of the total funds invested. The realisation of the project was achieved by 81%. The depletion of old plantations, plantations of vines and fruit plantations, and this project covers 165 hectares in three populated cities. The ministry participated with 70% of the funds invested. The total area of agricultural land is successfully covered by geodetic works with 165 hectares. In 2017 there was also the beginning of the competition in the catastrian municipalities of Gornja Stepja, Donja Rates on the surface of 563 hectares. The deadline for completion of the works is 30 June 2019. The total value is 16.8 million dinars. Dear colleagues, this is not a referendum, as opposition colleagues said, but an example of a good and active agricultural policy run by the town of Leskovac and, of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31440	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31441	Thank you, Chairman. To Article 1. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia has proposed an amendment that provides for Article 3 to be classified in Article 1 of the Law, which would specifically analyse the impact of the National Qualifications Framework on the state administration. The bill envisions the creation of instruments that regulate the fields of qualifications and integration with the labour market, which is an imperative of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one of the most important objectives of the SNS, which is faster and more effective employment of people in the Republic of Serbia. The national framework is important for the establishment of lifelong learning and training instruments that have a special impact on the level and quality of services that the state administration should provide to citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the business climate in the country. The more efficient work of the state administration, as well as the formation of a qualification base, opens up the possibility that the Republic of Serbia can at any moment look at its own qualifications, as well as the need for perspective in line with the national development plan. The holding of a qualification base at any time will allow the number and level of certain qualifications to be determined and, through the projection of the development of the state administration, to define real needs and thus to carry out timely preparation of employees and their redistribution within the state administration and in accordance with the qualifications they possess. Such measures and activities allow constant maintenance of the high level of staff's work performance and the constant work of the state administration at a high level without time-steps to bring needs and opportunities into line, but such more efficient work would solve problems in walking. These measures aim to preserve existing jobs and provide new, guaranteeing greater opportunities for employees to develop, learn and gain experience in improving their working ability, as well as the efficiency of the working unit in which they operate, resulting in a more efficient and overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31442	The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31443	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, my amendment refers to Article 1 which I am adding Article 3 which reads - NOKS afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to reducing social differences. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is education. It's good to be educated because you have a choice. The government of the Republic of Serbia should create young people who are able to make their own decisions, be team players, be creative, be usable. This is also the goal of this law – to adapt education to the economy. Let's remember what it was like in 2008. Four hundred thousand people are out of work and not just 400,000 people, but also their families. Imagine if someone doesn't have an apartment, and there's no basic income, there's poverty for us. Thank God, coming SNS, the unemployment rate was 27 is down to 13.5% today. We hired 170 thousand people. That's how the responsible government works, that's what SNS does. That's why we need this law, just so we don't create kids that aren't creative, that just reproduce that knowledge, so-called. Bugs, already creative are making professional people. And, not only that, it's going towards the affinities. Just look at "Belgrade on Water", 27 hectares of the most infertile land has been transformed into the most elite neighborhood. That's where the talk came in today. There are electro-structures, construction professions, all that we today, with this amendment, want to pass this law as soon as possible and make this country go the way it's long gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31444	Thank you. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janošević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31445	Thank you, Chairman. When you say that one city of 110 thousand inhabitants had a textile factory, a carpet factory, a shipyard, a Shinvoss, a brewery, a Radiator, a sugarcan, an oil company, a hat factory, a skin, a drug industry, then you certainly think of Zrenjanin. Once such a strong industrial city, the yellow company went backwards, and then Zrenjanin stagnated. Many of the companies mentioned have disappeared, and some have also lost their business. Today, fortunately, we have new outlines of Zrenjanin. Granjanin slowly but surely justifies the heart of Banat and I will, through a certain example, justify what I said, for the economic recovery of our city is under way. Just two weeks ago, Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic visited Zrenjanin during the opening and laying of a cornerstone for the South Korean factory "Esex", which will continue its business in the Southeast industrial zone in our city. On the surface of a plot of seven hectares today, immediately after the signing of a business contract, a production plant is being built and the investment, dear colleagues, is worth 30m euros. The company's future employees will earn between 60 and 90 thousand dinars for engineers. Really, very impressive and I'm looking forward to it. The government of the Republic of Serbia stressed and said this investment is one of the key to the Republic of Serbia. With that, and in that light I bear this amendment, which will certainly further affirm and define the subject matter of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31446	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? He's a colleague of Nikolic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31447	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, the amendment that I have proposed, is added to Article 3 of the bill, which reads - the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to attracting new investments, which is, in my view, the key to strengthening the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Article 1 of this law establishes a national qualification framework for the Republic of Serbia as a qualification system, their purpose, objectives, principles, types and levels of qualifications, etc., which would be achieved on the continent with this amendment and would be covered. The reason for the adoption of this law is for an analysis of the effects. There is one of the key sentences, in my opinion, which is the regulation of qualifications areas related to the labour market. We are all witnessing that since 2000, education has been inconsistencies with the labour market, which has been given one, let me say, as a result of the extra occupation, which has not been realistically employed. They also had a problem with citizens, they had a problem with both states and investors who could not find adequate occupations because they were not in line. All these laws that we've passed, and now and these days, and all we've ever adopted, all of this is in the service of the citizens and we care about the state and our citizens, versus our predecessors, the dosmania, who didn't care about the state, they didn't care about the citizens. Their only interest was in making a combination in brother-in-law combinations and guaranteeing that the state would also be in charge of the state, in charge of local self-government, and in debt to its party. A hypocritical attitude towards the state and citizens has led them to some statistical error, some 2% in the Belgrade elections, which I think is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31448	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Djokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31449	Respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the adoption of the National Qualifications of Serbia Bill is set up a system for the identification of qualifications, types and levels of qualifications, the way in which qualifications are acquired, the description of knowledge, skills and skills, and the integration with the European Qualifications Framework is established. Employers will finally know exactly what knowledge and skills a certain calling is, and Serbian diplomas will finally be recognized in Europe. They will know what qualifications they have with certain knowledge and what they have learned exactly. Managers, engineers and technicians of different kinds. However, there is more to be achieved than that. Thanks to Alexander Vucic and SNS, more particularly, one recognizable system of values is being established in society as a whole and in an indirect way affects the strengthening of society in a valuable, moral, but also in a defensive sense, bearing in mind the fact that a more secure and secure society is being developed at the same time. I have proposed that the amendment be made in Article 1. The bill adds attitude 3 and highlights the affirmative role of NOX to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and thus to the improvement of the defence system. The defence ministry, which is normally responsible for carrying out tasks related to the development of an education system for the purposes of defence and the Serbian Army, and harmonising military education and scientific research activities against the importance of defence with a system of secondary and higher education and scientific research in the Republic of Serbia, will have the obligation to bring military education into line with NOX. Military education is part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia and is of special importance for defence. It includes education, training and training for the needs of the Serbian Army. Schooling involves secondary education and education and higher education, which are implemented by military school institutions. The training involves all forms of education during the lives of professional members of the Serbian Army and state officials who implement military school institutions and units and institutions of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. Training involves a training programme for the Serbian Army's reserve officers, candidates for entry into the professional military service and foreign citizens. All this has to be consistent with NOX. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31450	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Jovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31451	The Honored Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia in Article 1 defines the subject matter of the law. The amendment I propose is in Article 1. The bill adds attitude 3 -- the NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving public health. So the amendment aims to further define the subject matter of this law. If we carefully read Article 1 of this Law, we will see that it contains, among other things, the following terms – a description of knowledge, skills, abilities and attitudes. I underline these words of Article 1. The bill of law for the simple reason we've had sometimes the frightening consequences of not having such a law, of non-regulating the matter of qualification. I'll remind you and the public that back in the last few years, we witnessed a terrifying campaign against child vaccination. The results of this are today - 12 people died, 12 people paid with their heads, four thousand people got sick with a tendency to be more. What happened and why are we witnessing such a devastating truth? It happened that incompetent people, people who did not have adequate qualifications, adequate knowledge, but did not have what is called personal responsibility, gave themselves the right to speak publicly about a matter they do not know. We had even on the Health Committee two, three years ago, representatives of some NGOs who had the courage to convince us members of the Health Committee that vaccines should not be legally mandatory. One of the greatest flows of medical science and practice, one of the greatest fluids and human civilizations are actually vaccines. Why? Just remember, we were probably all told by our grandparents what it meant to be diagnosed with tuberculosis hundreds of years ago. It meant almost certain condemnation to death. Today, thanks to the vaccine, this disease and many other diseases are reduced to a minimum. It is this law that regulates the matter of qualification that we are not just making one law that will count qualifications, we are actually creating one system that I could say in two words – it is a system of competence and a system of responsibility. When I say responsibility, I mean, first of all, this personal responsibility but also responsibility for the spoken word. I hope that after such a law that makes a good contribution to the establishment of a new true system of values in our society, we will not be able to witness that some round table on the media on vaccines and similar important topics will be equally represented by professors of universities and academics with estrad stars, philosophers etc. It is precisely because at one point we have allowed such things to be discussed which are really highly professional issues, that people who do not have adequate qualifications are equally talked about. That is why I welcome the adoption of such a law, and I believe it will contribute to the good work and the establishment of that true system of values and responsibilities that modern Serbian society needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31452	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP pfor submitted. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31453	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ministers with Associates, I wanted to contribute in some way to defining the subject-matter of this law. No, gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, modernization of Serbia without good education and education. The former regime has brought the Republic of Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy, and the entire system of education and education to the greatest crisis and flood in the history of education and pedagogical ideas with us in the Republic. The Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vucic came to power and found the country left for us by the former regime, which was economically, industrialally and infrastructureally devastated. A country that has been demoted by world powers, a country with great debt, a country with great unemployment 25.6%, a country with no hope and faith, its citizens in a better future, a country with no international reputation, a country with great inflation, a country without security, the security of its citizens, a country on the brink of bankruptcy and a country with a collapsed system of education and education. With the arrival of SNS and Aleksandra Vukic in power and well-placed his work programme in 2014, so-called The long-term goals of our country's development and the short-term period of four years have been set, and this is a reform course for Serbia to modernise and since the arrival of SNS and Mr Vucic, headed by the state, is working and building and modernising the education and education system. In this regard, President Vucic initiated dual education, and Minister Mladen Sarčević stepped deeply in the reform of dual education as the greatest contemporary teaching achievement of vocational schools, which will also be reflected in the national qualification framework... Thank you for your political culture. National qualification framework... (President: Continue your colleague Atlagic, I apologize, some colleagues have a good time, don't sit here and try to distract you. You go ahead. They don't stand a chance. Which will also reflect a national qualification framework that the former regime has failed to bring for 12 years. In the end, Mr. Vice-President Arsic, formal qualifications must reflect acquired competences, it is often not the case that the professor, Dr. Serbia's Turajlic, owns moral and cultural competences, would not reflect hate for Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and his associates Dr. Orlic, Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic and the president of the People's Peasant Party, Marijan Ristic, visiting the N1 CIA, is untruely and extremely primitive, brutally, groundly, uncivilised, inhumanely, wanting to humiliate Dr. Aleksandro Martinovic, and in fact humiliated herself. It can have formal qualifications, it can also have certain competences and one single competence cannot have Mrs. Turajlic, and this is a patriotic education as a motivational factor of every work, every knowledge, every culture and every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31454	I thank my colleague Atlagic. I'm sorry I couldn't influence providing you with the atmosphere you expect when the MP talks, but understand a little. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Coli Laketić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31455	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, therefore, is defined as a standard by this member of the law. What I wanted with this amendment was first and foremost to improve and provide an adequate quality system in the qualification process. But it wasn't just that idea. So, in addition to this idea that I said, parallelly, it was my idea to in some way influence this amendment and to develop standards in qualifications in relation to the labour market. Why do I think this is very important? This is very important precisely for local self-government and for all those parts of our country where investors come and where they plan to invest certain capital. Namely, the qualification system, i.e. the quality system of these qualifications on the one hand and the labour market needs must be very harmonised and one must also follow the other. In fact, the needs of the employer, which are defined through the labour market, are defined by their needs, can be said that they must be accompanied by a certain quality system in the acquisition of qualifications. In addition, I think it is very important, if not most important, that it is necessary to affirm key competences that are an integral part of the learning process throughout life. In fact, not only in my profession, which is health care, I am a professional physician, but I think it is necessary that in every activity, we must adopt the learning process throughout our lives as a basic path towards achieving the goal, which is the well-being of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31456	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31457	Thank you, Your Honor. With this amendment to Article 1 of the Law, I wanted to put the wind behind the efforts of the President of the Republic of Serbia and the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. On attempts, as the 2030 Agenda says, my favorite theme, the United Nations, is to be a world without the poor by 2030. I hope, this is how the government works and how the President of the Republic works, that Serbia will be a state without the poor much sooner than the UN Agenda asks. That I'm right here, he says what the Agenda says, and what I think is being applied, right through this law. So, quality education is the objective of the 2030 Agenda – to provide inclusive and fair, quality education and to enable lifelong education for all, by 2030 to significantly increase the number of young and adults with relevant skills, including technical and professional employment skills, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. That the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have just been concentrated, as well as this bill of law, tells me something that I, or on the 28th day, seemed to me, on Wednesday, to be the Kingdom Employment Fair where, for a wonderful miracle, from some previous employment fairs, you saw a large number of people not only interested in work but also from the bidder. There were also large European companies, such as Turkey's Taip, where a large number of interested Royals asked about a future investment that, thank God, is moving somewhere in September and they are looking for a large number of workers. But not only did I mention foreign investors, there was one big producer, a royal, local, world-famous and world-class voice, as well as a European one, which is a Radiator, who mentioned in the conversation and the story of welders, meaning, about a large group of young people who finish a wonderful trade and have immediate employment. That contest is open all the time. In the end, I will mention only three large hotels – in Vrnjačka Banja, the queen of our tourism, who were looking for new workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31458	Thank you. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Davidovci, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31459	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and associates, I have submitted this amendment in order to more precisely define the proposal for this law in terms of regional co-operation. The education reform process in order to achieve defined objectives in the development documents of the Republic of Serbia has caused the need to define the national qualification framework, which will allow for the improvement of the overall system of education through integration with the labour market. The establishment of a national qualification framework for the Republic of Serbia forms a system for improving qualifications associated with the European Qualifications Framework, defines the purpose, objectives and principles, as well as the types, levels and methods of qualifications, determines the descriptor of the level of qualifications, then the bodies and organisations responsible for the application and development of the national qualification framework, and provides quality in the application of the national framework. The introduction of this law creates a uniform monitoring of education, we will have a harmonised record in the field of education and employment and will ensure the comparability and visibility of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Serbia and qualifications acquired in other countries. The regulation and improvement of the classification system, in line with the requirements of socio-economic development, will provide support for the application of the lifelong learning concept and will facilitate labour mobility. The importance of establishing a national qualification framework is multiple, both at individual level and at the level of state and society in general. Regional co-operation is one of Serbia's top foreign policy priorities, and the application of the national qualification framework contributes to progress and deepening regional co-operation through maintaining and increasing stability and promoting overall good neighbourly co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31460	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Tomašević, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31461	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable Mr. Ministers with fellow Members, fellow Members of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, defines the area where qualifications are established, describes the levels and types of qualifications, competent bodies and processes related to the establishment of a qualification system, with respect to the specificity of the national education system, the principles of European educational practice, in particular the European Qualifications Framework. I have submitted an amendment adding Article 1 to Article 3, which is that the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of judicial institutions. Improving the quality and efficiency of justice, strengthening the independence and accountability of the judiciary, in order to strengthen the rule of law, democracy, legal certainty, bringing justice closer to citizens and restoring citizens' trust in the justice system is of paramount importance to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. What is a key priority of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to judicial reform and the improvement of judicial institutions is a judicial system in which judicial institutions and judicial officials in their work are exempt from any inappropriate and unauthorized influence and pressure that would hinder justice, regardless of their source. Here, I cannot help but look back on the disastrous 2009 judicial reform implemented by the former regime when 837 judges were resolved without even deciding whether they met the conditions to be elected for a judicial post, nor did they give them individual grounds for resolution. They were unworthy of judicial functions just because they were not close to the former regime, but were professionals in their profession. By decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, these judges were returned to work and that cost the state 1.5 billion dinars. The previous government, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, the current government, as well as the competent justice ministry, have done much in the area of justice and the promotion of judicial institutions, but we will have to do much more to succeed, and the political impact on the judiciary and ineffectiveness, we are changing completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31462	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31463	I'm reporting from Article 32. I received information from the service just now that in the e-parliament, the electronic system, Mr. Veroljub Arsic's amendment was just now on the agenda. I am interested – why did my colleague Arsic not read his name? Is it because he doesn't want to talk about the amendment, in which case he's obliged to read, or because he doesn't want to give in to me as vice president to run a session while he's talking about the amendment eventually? In any case, we have been hearing all day about how much education, education is going on, what we achieve, the ministers, or the prime minister, is talking about how e-Government is the basis for development, and we in parliament are experiencing that the MP general does not read his name, I guess it would not be heard in public that he does not want to talk about the amendment. You can't do that, Mr. Arsic. I don't mind if you don't allow me to run a session of parliament, it's your right, I'd say abuse, it doesn't matter, but you have to respect what's on the e-parliament, it's available to every MP, it's available to all the services in parliament, and everyone saw that you just skipped your name and name and that you should have talked about the amendment, or that you submitted that amendment, and whether you're going to speak or not, that's your thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31464	My colleagues, Radeta, I know you as a colleague who is very pedantic and follows the session and takes care of it, so stop listening to those who are subversive to you, they have led you into a great error. Some 35, 40 minutes ago, the amendment to Article 1, submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic, was read. He was read by his colleague, Djordje Milicevic, and I discussed my amendment. (The Faith of Radeta: The amendment was now on the agenda, not then. It's not an amendment to the agenda. The amendment cannot be made on the Radet agenda, as you also know by the Rules of Procedure, the amendments that require the removal of one member, and the additions, and the amendments and additions of the member to which the amendment is submitted. In the range of changes and additions, you can change the order of amendments and it's been done by a colleague of Radet, you'll only succeed in further advertising the Rules of Procedure, when one of your Rules of Procedures comes to me to conspire his place, when he says, that he never gets it again. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) It will come out. Here, you'll get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31465	I am now speaking by article 27. I am simply surprised, I cannot believe that someone who is chairing the Parliament is making such threats to the MPs, what you will allow in the future, what you will not and must act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether you like the MP or not, or a political party to which some MP belongs. And you're wrong, I really, thank you for that, I follow every precise word in this House, in this room, but it hasn't happened so far, and here we are discussing the amendments all day and the only amendment that didn't go in order in the e-parliament is your amendment. So you agreed not to speak now, but when the other colleague chaired, to take advantage of the time, while sitting there at the same time. So, that's true, and don't deceive the public, Mr. Arsic, because the public deserves to be told the truth, and especially, don't you ever think about threatening the MPs of the SRS again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31466	My colleague Radeta, I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's why, because it's the same legal matter and the same legal amendment. So the order does not determine the electronic parliament, the order determines the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, I have explained that amendments requiring the removal of one member are first considered, then the addition of a new member, and then the amendments and additions of the member to which the amendment applies. So, if you're looking to delete, to explain to you as an experienced lawyer, I'm a beginner and layman, but I've learned so much, and I'll explain it to you since you've advertised the Rules of Procedure. If you have 10 amendments that read – deleted, any, or first or 10 can be read, they are legally the same. Now, it happens here in the Assembly that colleagues from the same parliamentary group are opposed to the list that is on the e-parliament and the list that was given to the chairman, that they want to be replaced and that is done, so that I do not see the problem of why the amendment was read, and read by fellow Members Milicevic, when it refers to Article 1, and not to Article 5, when they were the same provisions that provided for his reading, as well as all other amendments before and after him. I don't understand what's wrong with the Rules of Procedure. I really don't understand. Here, explain it to me. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ( b) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31467	I would, of course, like I want the Assembly to make a statement about what I am about to say, and I am talking about a 107 member of the National Assembly's grave violation of the dignity, and I am saying in advance that I want the Assembly to plead, that I do not give you the satisfaction of speaking here as a National MP, not as a chairman. So, you just said a series of incorrect data, to be nice. You cannot insult the MPs of the people, no matter what you are in that position as the chairman, and you can talk to us, to me or to any of us in any way to discuss the amendments, I ask you to take care of how you treat the MPs when you are in the chair. You do not have the right to argue with the People's Messenger from there, but in one sentence you can answer, possibly to a complaint about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or to seek a word, so that you can come down nicely in the bench and speak as long as the Rules of Procedure allows. Don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. That when the MP from the parliamentary group replaces himself with his colleague, it has nothing to do with the order of amendments. Now, if we were to talk about it, then here I am when I'm sitting, I can see perfectly what kind of transge france is doing around the replacements, etc. Don't make me, because I don't want to be incorrect, and you obviously do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31468	Comrade Radeta, can you tell me the exact expression when I insulted someone? Here, there's about a hundred of us here. What word or sentence did I use to insult a colleague of mine? I've interpreted the Rules of Procedure as I think it's right. I didn't tell you that you didn't know, but that those who were suffling you had led you astray. So you started with the story and the thesis that my amendment wasn't read, and when it turns out it was read, then we're going to advertise 27, 107 and each other. (The Faith of Radeta: I asked the congregation to declare itself, and you have no right to answer me, I asked the congregation for an answer, not from you. ) Due to the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I am taking two minutes away from the time of the parliamentary group. In the day of the vote, the assembly will declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Mircic, on what grounds? (Milorad Mircic: Based. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31469	I'm advertising a violation of article 107, Mr. Arsic. You're now on insistence... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31470	My friend Mircic, he was now 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31471	Now you have sentenced your colleagues from the SNS by punishing a two-minute parliamentary group. Don't do that, colleague Arsic. Not good, we're here to discuss this law. We have proposed certain amendments and we have the patience to listen to you. You see, we don't object, we don't object when you praise the government, whether or not it's in the context of the amendments, and it has nothing to do with it. Your right to point out what the government has done positively, and ours is to defend our amendments and allow us at least in our correctness to finish today. Your colleague Orlic tells you, say two minutes and you two minutes immediately. Let's be on your own for once and show that determination to be on your own. What would any of your colleagues listen to? You're the chairman now, Mr. Arsic, you've had enough experience, at least I believe you've kept that minimum of principles. We may live in error, but let me, I have the right to live in that delusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31472	Comrade Mircic, here I am now breaking the Rules of Procedure. For the sake of democracy, I broke it, you had no right to advertise, because a colleague of Radeta had just advertised Article 107. Here I am letting you go. I'm asking you to move on now. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you, he will plead. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Comrade Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello to Mr. Minister and his associates. Dear fellow Members of mine, my amendment reads: "NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving health care. “ The National Qualifications Framework is an instrument that regulates the field of qualifications and links to the labour market. It is not only important for education, it is important for the market, for employers, for faster and better employment. It should be implemented in all areas of work and contribute to the regulation of employment policy. The law tangs all areas, including health care. Health care is one of the national resources that deserves continued strategic development. By 2012, Serbian healthcare had not met the criteria for assessing the European health consumer index. In 2013, it took 35th place in Europe, last place. Serbia was at the bottom of the scale then. It's a time of democratic rule. After everything that was going on in the semi-decomposed dispensaries, failed hospitals and never completed clinical centres, the motto was – we, first of all, have to worry about patient safety, and these patients, by going to the hospital, provided everyone - from bed linen, food to intervention equipment. During the three democratic governments in Serbia, tens of millions of dollars have entered Serbia to resurrect Serbian health. Unfortunately, it's been sunflowered. As for human resources, from health workers, without the right to specialize, to education, to improve, without faith in the expertise of his colleagues, the minister operated in a foreign country, a banal operation, and thus greatly humiliated Serbian health. A positive trend in Serbian healthcare begins in 2014, with the arrival of the government of Aleksandr Vukic. Special progress and huge development in 2015, 2016 and 2017 at the most, when we climbed 14 places. In January 2018, Serbia was in 20th place on the European list. Under the National Qualifications Framework, the government continues all of the reform and continuing to inform the health system, the introduction of electronic recipes, the shortened waiting time for treatment of cancer patients, the improvement of mental health rates. The record results are in the organ transplant area. Health is an indicator of the success of one country, and therefore, as an imperative in my amendment, I put in place preventions and screenings that aim to be implemented more successfully within the framework of the NOX. I would like to thank Mr. Minister for this important, necessary and very necessary law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31474	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Collegine Pavlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31475	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose this amendment to be in Article 1. The bill adds Article 3 which reads: "The NOX affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. “ I feel that this proposal further defines the bill. As I come from the Cupre City, which is a geographical, historical, sports, cultural and educational health center of the sea, I want to point out the following as a health care worker. Cupria was and was to be again the health center of the Pomoravski district, since it was founded in 1839, the First Ćupriska garrizonska hospital, because it was still open in 1881, since the first district civil hospital was opened in 1906, because the General Hospital of Ćupria currently has the highest quality material and human resources in health care and because the General Hospital of Cupria since 1998 has become a scientific and teaching base for students of the University of Higher Medical School in Ćupria. The General Hospital in Turkey is by all criteria the most developed health care facility in that part of Serbia, but the previous decades of systemic and systematic health collapse have also left a mark on our hospital. Some special services and conditions are not worthy of the time in which we live. To persistently insisting on the management of the Tupri Municipality and health workers to improve working conditions at the General Hospital of Cupria, and thus to improve the quality of the provision of health services, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Public Investment Office have shown understanding at the General Hospital of Cupria and approved financial resources for the reconstruction of the complete internalist bloc. On this occasion, on behalf of the citizens, I would like to thank again our President, Mr Alexander Vukic, our Government and Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, our Ministry of Health and Minister, Mr Zlatibor Loncar, Director of the Public Investment Office, Mr Mark Blagojevic. For the reconstruction of the General Hospital's internal block in Turkey, close to 2m euros was set aside and when it is completed, the new block will receive all the internal services under its roof, but also the treatment departments in which it was truly unconditional. As a cardiologist with a decades-old job experience, I ask the health department's competent authorities to consider the request of the General Hospital of Cupri, to get an angio hall, because it's simply a matter of time. It's not a matter of prestige for a long time. Namely, it is known that cardio-vascular diseases are among the most common causes of mortality today, and the Pomorava County covers an area where nearly 300,000 people live and that every year there are hundreds of new patients with a diagnosis of myocardial infarction, so by saving interventions on conoral arteries, they would save many lives and solve the problem of the most severe cardiologic patients throughout the Pomorava County. More important than anything else is the fact that aggio fat would save hundreds of lives, and with that, no figures can be compared. Since technological development of medical equipment is as fast as possible, I expect our hospital to get even more modern appliances and diagnostic equipment. I would stress when it comes to this that the health policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health has only one axiom, and he would say in a free translation: "There are no more direct or important health centres. All parts of Serbia must develop evenly. The construction of a clinical centre in Nis, the most modern medical institution in this part of Europe, is a confirmation of such a definition. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31476	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31477	Here, Mr. Minister, let's get back to the law and talk about what their basic concepts and meaning are in Article 2. We have submitted an amendment to delete this title because we believe that this article is also unnecessary in the law, because these terms you have defined in Article 2 are completely incomprehensible, unadjusted in Serbian, unadjusted in what is a real state and how messed up it is, and in fact that the citizens of Serbia know, it is a direct or integrated translation. In fact, this law was passed in many countries of the former Yugoslav republics several years ago. Its real version comes from countries of the EU that Serbia will never enter, if we ask ourselves, and certainly if they wonder with the conditions that set out for the abduction of our southern Serbian province, I will look back on Mr. Minister, since you are the man who acquired the highest calling, you have a lot of experience in education, only two expressions. Did the word "competence" have to stand for "accessible knowledge" or "experience"? There are a lot of lawyers here in the SRS, in the SNS ranks, so they'll confirm that usually if we take its etemological meaning, it's used in terms of jurisdiction, let's say the jurisdiction of a court or the jurisdiction of an institution or institution. The word "lifelong" learning, which we had the opportunity to see in the set of your educational laws in the autumn, is a little bit too low, but for every praise, I mean fellow doctor from Prokuplje, MP of the SNS, I guess ignoring what you said, well said "over the course of life," because it's also translated from English as directly as someone did for the ministry's account and all other countries in the environment, because here, Mr. Arsic, as an Englishman, will confirm that the term "lifelong-lnning" actually means "lifelong learning", and it should be said "teaching throughout life". If you look back at what Serbian giants did, Tesla, Pupin, Milankovic, Cvijic, you don't think they needed to have the term "lifelong learning" and then they learned something, and beyond that they didn't? They've studied throughout their lives, so you should, Mr. Minister, put it into this law and leave it to future generations to perfect themselves and to learn and to gain their knowledge throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31478	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31479	I'm not going to do linguistics, etymology, nor legal norms, but you know how many words there are in everyday language in the jargon in previous laws that are already known here, none of them are unknown. An amendment, a pure Serbian word, is that right? The party, the party, the radical, are not all Serbian words, are they, and are in circulation?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31480	Right on line, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31481	We can now open the controversy about it and trust me that you will lose that duel with me, since here is my colleague Arsic, and many other colleagues who have been with me for many years, to say for a decade in parliament, is that I am getting a pair of ears from every twisting of Serbian language and this new speech that, say Colic, advocates. In the spelling of the Serbian language and in this amended edition that came out in 2009 it is also said that the language is alive and is as you now say it is, with these amended words, a Serbian language comes to some nakarada form that enters the legal frameworks, which are just like such and nakaradic expressions leave to future generations. It is something clearly defined in the original and true Serbian language. We're against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31482	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31483	Today we have really been listening to everything and everything for hours, at least it was about the bill and article 1 that has been the subject until now, everything could somehow come to an end. Of course, this point deserves a little bit of consideration from some of the most interesting things we've heard, from the fact that one's amendment is so important that it depends on it whether the law is good or not, but it's still going to vote for that law, until there's this amendment, but it doesn't have to be adopted, which is clear throughout the day. Some general conclusion is that we live in a country of dembelia, no one is missing anything, everything is working out, the best judiciary, the best economy, the richest people. Now, it's just that all of this has nothing to do with reality, it's something else. We listened here earlier that we would become a country without the poor before the whole world. This is said by someone who lives in Serbia where 350,000 people work for a minimum wage today, where half a million pensioners receive a pension of less than 15,000, where 2,000 children live and work on the street, where a third of children live on the edge of poverty. So be a little realistic, and as much as you're willing to praise the government that you support, which we can certainly understand, but don't exaggerate, people know how they live and what they live on and don't really talk about what we've been listening to all day. Minister, since you said you were visiting schools and that you had recently visited everything, I didn't get a chance to speak to you any further, I don't know if you remember whether you were invited to the opening ceremony in the village of Miroševce in Leskovac Municipality, there was a solemnly opened septic cave in one school. He opened the head of the Department of Social Affairs and Local Economic Development, Bojan Tojaga, and Goran Cvetanovic couldn't, as he opened the cemetery toilet that day. I don't know if you know the details. Why do we think we need to take more of this Article 2? Well, first of all, because it's totally excessive, unnecessary, and there's no need for even if these concepts have some meaning and meaning, that's what I was saying when I was talking about the title of the law, why do you graduate lawyers explain what it means? This will be seen by reading the other members of the law, not by explaining to us now at the very beginning what qualifications, competences, etc. means. Well, my colleague Jovanovic has drawn attention to not a large number of foreign words, expressions that are unnecessary, such as the unnecessary European qualification framework, which actually implies the introduction to the law that I mentioned today, on which Zorana Mihajlovic insists, probably with the desire to be the manager, manager or manager of the future government or to be the performer or performer of the future government, because that is the purpose of this member, so I ask you what would you call, what would you call the pilot, baker, driver? Will she be a pilot, a baker, a driver? Is Grandma going to be a midwife? Is this thing gonna be a prank? Don't give us a nice Serbian tongue, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31484	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31485	I can talk about second, I can't do septic, I haven't been invited and I don't know, I've learned something now. I think I speak fluent Serbian and certainly dialectic, although I am from Belgrade, but not Belgrade, but some normal. You speak well. Thank you. I just wanted to say one thing, I'm not a lawyer, but I got the information that making each one, and this law, was made by the methodology of making the 2010 law, and that these terms that are now listed, which are certainly familiar to you as a lawyer, the law wasn't even written for lawyers only, so that's the explanation that I got, and I think it's logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31486	By amendment, the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, Replica Minister, here, come on. [[No, it's a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31487	You don't have to. Now, come on, Mr. Arsic, I'm entitled to a replica. I'm not here to beg.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31488	As soon as I've given it to you, you're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31489	So, Minister, you speak nicely and we have no objections to your speech, but you're not a politician, and that's obvious. You take strict care of what you are told and what is written. The fact that some methodology was established in 2010, it's not a holy letter, and that's the problem of this current government that they've accepted everything radically from the previous ones and when they're distracted that it's not good, then they say what we're going to inherit. What was inherited was supposed to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31490	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31491	Anyway, I'm going to make a statement about the amendment, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, first of all, I do not think it should be accepted for the obvious reason that such a member of the law is welcome and necessary. Second, because it's in the interest of the promoter himself. They have just come out of the parliamentary group that they do not understand the meaning of some expressions, and then they need to remain an explanation of these expressions in order to make it clearer to them. Third, I do not accept as any argument that we inherit all the worst of some past times. If that were the case, we'd keep some here, like Gilas did today, in the board of directors, and we obviously don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31492	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, listening to a fellow SNS fellow today could not conclude at all that it was laws, first of all, in the field of education and education. This was all about everything and everything, and at least the laws relating to education, and you looked at it kindly. If I were to use this pay phone right now, and by my amendment, let's say the problems of the airport and the protests that are... (President: Here you go, you can talk about it. )......................................................................................................... You would certainly warn me, but I will honor the Rules of Procedure and I will return to the law and speak of my submitted amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The National Qualifications Framework Act where I asked for the words "and expertise" to be added after the word "competence". Of course, the government has rejected this amendment and I'm not surprised at all about it. It's a practice that all governments have been doing since October 5th on this. That is why it is no wonder, when it comes to the subject matter dealing with this National Qualifications Framework Act, that there has been a real confusion in this area and that you have listened more to what the SRS MPs have been talking about in this, and in previous societies, it is certain that there will be no such problems. So here's a mess we're going to have a hard time getting out of. In particular, I think you, Mr. Minister, are to blame for this. On the contrary, I recognize from these some solutions and from what you're saying from your place to have, you're trying, giving a lot of work to solve things, but as long as you're on the road that Gasa Knezevic, the first minister after October 5th, I'm sure and convinced that of all the efforts that you or anyone else are making, there's nothing. Today, no one can catch all the ends when it comes to qualifications, competences, etc., because I say it is all the consequences of those laws that came after October 5th, or the way the DOSs, or the European path that you advances have gone on so warmly. When it comes to issues dealing with this law, when it comes to secondary education and high school, the problem is somehow resolved, because the Ministry of Education is still in control of all the things that are subject to this law. The main and basic problem is when it comes to higher education. The flood of private universities and universities led to the fact that we do not know how many titles, knowledge, qualifications, etc., professional professions, because in private universities, above all, the names of professions are invented not according to the real needs of industry and markets, not according to the real progress of science, but by how to attract and lure as many students as possible to enroll in the desired colleges. So I really see that you're trying to solve, to find, to systematicize these things, but I really don't know how you're going to get out of all this. Let's just say, when I mentioned these private colleges, we remember that in recent years, in the last years, or the college in which the title was called management for this or that, they were competitive professions where students were enrolled on the basis of that name itself, and whether they had real needs for it, whether it could help them with their employment tomorrow. Today's most competitive interests are those relating to the IT sector, i.e. information technologies, and that's logical, because it's the fastest-developed area, but the question of how many in this area of information technologies we have professional staff able to monitor the latest trends, because this is literally updated from day to day, that is where a man needs to be absolutely present day and night and to follow the latest things about this. I want to say one more thing about this, which is the recognition of the diplomas of our students and foreign students acquired abroad. This is a very serious matter, a serious task that must not just be left to the case and the Ministry of Education and the state of Serbia must pay serious attention to this. The latest example of these problems in this area is at the University of Niski where there has been a sudden increase in the number of nostricated diplomas of citizens, or ours, or foreign diplomas, that have acquired abroad. So we have cases of nostration of diplomas acquired in Kosovo, and these diplomas are written by the Republic of Kosovo and you, Minister, I urge you to examine this matter to the end and see what needs to be done specifically on this matter. It is not only about diplomas acquired in Kosovo, but we also have diplomas from some Tetovo University, we also have diplomas acquired at universities in the state of Albania and no one knows the credibility of those diplomas and whether there really is expertise behind those diplomas. I would ask you to reconsider this and, of course, when you make the final decision, report to the public of Serbia and, of course, the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31494	Comrade Saviæ, did you use this time of five minutes and 21 seconds from the group or from the authorized? (Nikola Savic: Authorised. All right. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31495	If you'll allow a colleague, first this briefly related to the basis of the amendment. That's the word "competence". I don't think it's necessary to add, because there's an explanation that this is an integrated set of knowledge, skills, abilities and attitudes that enables an individual to function effectively according to the qualification standard. So what you said was explained. For Niski, I checked the same day. So, I asked for a report from Mr. Rector Antic and got it as a journalist's bluff. Only 16 diplomas seven, eight years ago when there was some attempt to continue the study. It is forbidden by the government's regulation. I insisted that the Rector Antić call a press conference and put it on the University of Nis website. So we react on a daily basis. It's just that sometimes newspapers write things. Yesterday I called the editor-in-chief "News", because it says, "Students steal in Italy." Wait, they were going as citizens, underage, they were stealing, but they're underage citizens who have their parents. They didn't go to school there as a student. You know, that's some kind of game of words I sure as hell won't let. If they make a mess, I'm sure I'll react. Let me just tell you about this whole problem. I didn't come here and invent private colleges or put everything in the same basket. So I'm trying to make new laws that we're going to come here to the Assembly, to continue the procedure for the Higher Education Act, where we enter with two agendas, is one funding, which is, of course, the basis for states, and the other are standards of quality. Quality indicators and standards also have to do with the NOK that we are talking about, both with dual education and with the Council of Employers who entered the Law on Higher Education. If we at the end of the school chain say – do we ask the employer what kind of candidate he came and got a job with him. So, the best, the employer will definitely say that. We're forcing everyone into the quality zone, otherwise they'll remain visible that his diploma is worthless. The new bodies we have established, which will certainly be in the government on Thursday, the High Education Council, the Administrative Board of the Accreditation Agency enters this story professionally, and cannot happen that some commission is doing so, and throughout their work, it does not behave properly either towards the Ministry or other associations, both domestic and international, in which they were bound. So that practice gets in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31496	My colleague Saviæ, after the amendment. (Nikola Savic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Milisav Petronijevic and Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? A fellow Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31497	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, honourable MPs, colleague Dejan Radenkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. National Qualifications Framework Act. I'll try briefly to explain what's going on. We have come from taking into account that the National Qualifications Framework Act establishes a national qualification framework covering all levels and types of qualifications, regardless of how to acquire through formal, non-formal, lifelong or lifelong learning, to define a link with the labour market, to establish a single classification system, to define a space where qualifications, levels and types of qualifications, competent bodies and processes are established. So the key word is qualification. Just to add, it is a very good law that was missing Serbia, which is overly needed by Serbia to regulate this area. Therefore, when it comes to Article 2, Article 2 defines qualifications in such a way as to formally recognise the acquired knowledge, skills, abilities and attitudes acquired when the competent authority determines that it has achieved the learning outcome within a certain level. There is our intervention, considering different ways of acquiring and formally and informally. We felt that such a good law deserves a more precise formulation in terms of standing a competent body – that it stands a competent institution, an institution or a competent body, I repeat, given that the law speaks of both formal and informal education. So the amendment is not essential and we have no fundamental objections to the law. On the contrary, as an SPS and a parliamentary group of SPS, we strongly supported the adoption of this and this law, given that it institutionally regulates the system of qualifications for the first time, which is achieved not only through formal education, but also through informal education, given that it enables easier labour mobility, given that it enables the application of the concept of lifelong learning, given that it defines the institutional framework for the participation of the economy in the world of education, given that it first connects learning and acquisition of knowledge and puts into operation and employment opportunities in one systematic way. This leaves behind us the time when schools are enrolled that neither children nor parents know what will happen afterwards, what will happen when they finish school, and then for years they wait and look for work, of course in the profession, and often without success. So, given everything in mind and in the end because of this law, but also other reforms that are being undertaken, the place of education is slowly moving towards the first place on the scale of value, we strongly support this path and we believe that this should be both a national goal and a national interest. Again, we essentially fully support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31498	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? She's a colleague of Nikolic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31499	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 2. The SRS MPs submitted a number of amendments. This member defines the basic concepts and their meaning, and it is very important that they are clearly and precisely defined. We can note that in this particular article of the bill, foreign words and expressions prevail, which we MPs of the SRS, both in the principle debate and today in the debate in particular, have repeatedly pointed out. In Article 2 paragraph 3. I have submitted an amendment where words – private and social life, profession and real-time learning and demanding situations are deleted. I will read the entire amendment, an entire member of this law – key competencies for lifelong learning, the ability to use acquired knowledge, skills and attitudes, necessary for personal, social and professional development and continued learning. These competencies have been integrated into objectives and standards at all levels of education as new areas, relevant for continuous gain of competences, so now they are wiped out, private and social life management, professions and real problems and demanding situations. We are looking at an amendment, as I said, erasing these words for reasons that you cannot live with a life written on paper because not all circumstances and all the challenges facing man can be predicted. Besides, circumstances change all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31500	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Good luck, Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31501	Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which speaks of basic concepts and their meaning. I have to say that in the SRS we don't mind that some colleagues read the reports of their mayors from press conferences, because as we experience this Parliament, it has this capacity, it has opportunities, we don't mind, I only wish there were more of these reports from Capac, Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Ljubovija, Krubnja and so on, but what are we going to do? Let's do it the way it is. Mr. Minister, you have disappointed me, you are one of the apic representatives of the government, Vukic – Brnabić, one of the first, perhaps if not the first to be identified for market behaviour in the education sector, which is not a small thing. By reading the contribution that goes with this law, I saw that the procedure for making this law lasted about four years, so you say – 55 full-time meetings, then a series of other activities, and then I expected an incomparably more high-quality bill. However, when we get this, and even in some terms, you see the qualification, so you explain what is the formal recognition of acquired competences, which is confirmed by public correction in brackets – diploma or certification. This is indeed one depraved notion that offends the intelligence of Serbian citizens. You're right, not everyone, the one to whom a certain law applies and before a lawyer wants to know something, to apply, but this is really, it doesn't make sense in this way to explain some terms and terms. Furthermore, where we intervened in this amendment, it refers to the outcome of learning. This item of Article 1(2) shall have two segments in the outcome of learning. First, after a certain level of learning what is obtained for it, and later, a certain kind of check. That someone will be evaluated or will be awarded a diploma when a certain level of knowledge is achieved in order, and a certain way of checking can lead to many results, which may even sometimes not be desirable. What you, Mr. Minister, should pay attention to in order to remain remembered as a man who may have done something, you are trying to do it, and we had to leave the citizens of Serbia in the 60s and 70s, but it should be borne in mind that they were then going abroad with the lowest degree of education. Unfortunately, even before you, and it seems to me that in your time it is quite pronounced, people with the highest degree of education and people who are most needed here in Serbia are leaving. Try something in that field to do, maybe then you'll complete your mission that you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31502	Thank you. Minister Mladen Sarcevic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31503	Your Honor, I think that's exactly what I want to do, as you say, and models and dual profiles of education, organising the needs of the economy, the locals and all that's going on is that education follows it. It hasn't been followed in a long time. What you said in your explanation was that it was done for four years, so it didn't take us four years. He says it's done, then it's left behind, and it starts left behind. So, I was ready to go in with this law before New Year's Eve, but we've just passed a lot of laws, so there's nothing left to wait for.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31504	Thank you, Minister. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's a colleague of LJubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31505	Thank you. We believe that it is necessary to define certain matters clearly when adopting the National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia, so we have submitted this amendment to Article 2 from the SRS. We have proposed an amendment to item 1 of point 7 in which, after the words, practically in the title, the following text would be added – public recognition, organizers, adult education activities are required to update all changes relating to the current school year by 30 September at the latest. The opinion of the SRS parliamentary group is that this amendment should not be rejected because a regular update of the register is required to record certain changes. The fact is that there are great opportunities for abuse of qualifications and by allowing for the Law on adult education from 2013. There is no need to deny a small number of correct solutions that refer especially to people who, as a technological surplus, remain jobless and some other group of people, however, return to the story of public enterprises and employees in them. One who enters a public company once, and one who knows how to enter, can do without the expertise to make progress. A law today spoken of in the part of informal education, as a public recognition and organizer of adult education, is also defined by a public company. When we talk about this, I note, that we from the SRS do not see what the problem is that state authorities and institutions that are in accordance with the special law carry out professional training and other education activities, it is something else entirely. The problem is that informal education in public enterprises, agencies, trade unions and associations and other institutions can give qualifications to those who have taken up the place of people who cannot be employed, who have been waiting for work for years and who have acquired qualifications, have formal education, but have not had the ticket needed to enter a public enterprise. What concerns many of the parents of Jablanic County, where we have increasingly frequent student bullying behavior, these days is the case in Vucje, where a third-grade student is making a mess in elementary school and that parents are being forced not to send their children to school. Mr. Minister, are you familiar with this case and have you taken any concerns about this case that concerns the entire Jablan County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31506	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31507	There's a whole team that deals with prevention and problem-solving when violence already appears. There are included services and we also sign on Wednesday with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs protocols that must continue to be done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Labour Centres. You have there that several ministries are involved, because the domain of education is not always effective, it's just like that. We have some authority, and for us, someone has to take that child's parents and get in the process. So, the big teams are working on it, and we've picked up SOS phones, but we've got 17 administrations, wherever that kind of incident happens, a team from Belgrade, a three-member who runs the whole process here and with the U.S. government. So that's what the story's about, we'll talk about it later. I don't have time now. What's very important, you mentioned to these organizers, that we put them in control for the first time. We have them now, all the working universities, everything that exists, we have no control over it. They get a five-year license, they get into the system, they have control of the Educational Inspectorate. When it comes to some companies that meet the conditions for it, you know how, if we talked about the obligation of high school, if we want to bring another 15% of children into the system that stays in primary school, we have to think of the smarter countries that did it before us, which is that some occupations, forks or anything in the domain that's been taught for two years, which the High School Act recognizes, gives us a chance for those organizers to show up and that we have it for the purposes of the economy. It's much better control this way than it's ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31508	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31509	First, this national prefix with Europe doesn't go to ministers. You know that well. It does not take Europe for Serbia to have anything national, especially when it is a framework for some qualifications. Secondly, you have here in defining in Article 2 of the qualification that is proven or confirmed by certificates and diplomas. I guess there should be some kind of program, there should be some kind of plan, which is the basis of that qualification. If we look at only diplomas, then we have a terrible problem that will follow us in the future. You well know the damage caused by so-called. The Bologna Declaration. We still have a big problem today with harmonising those diplomas, with the calls. Even as they say in Bologna, they do not know what Bologna is, it is not clear to them, and we have rushed to Serbia, of course, to the address of these pro-European Eurofils, as it is said, to adopt this Bologna Declaration and now we have, according to the Bologna Declaration, on the persuasively speaking of disabled education. Secondly, when you look at a certificate or diploma that proves a qualification, we've had a phenomenon in the past. You remember well when the school reform started, when targeted secondary education was introduced, then those who taught practical classes, who finished their studies, three years of schooling, were overqualified to teachers, professors of practical teaching. In fact, with the finished trade, they had the status of professors, as well as those who completed colleges. Then, out of grace, the resourceful people called them "the Sorbonnes", because only in Serbia can you become a sorbonne, to become a university-educated person. It's not only the ancient past, but it's recently happened, let's say, that kelnerisation was carried out in Serbia. What's kelnerisation? Massely, waiters, overnight, produce in graduate lawyers, graduate managers, graduate economists. And in fact now we have one real situation for waiters to run and run this country. It's not just this power. You're just the continuity of those before. It's the wetness of the Democratic Party and its coalition partners. We need to make sure that behind that degree or certification, attention must be paid to the plan and the programme by which a certain person has been educated. Not to give you an example of an individual, but maybe it's characteristic. We have a case that a man reported a degree in higher school in Prizren, where it was later found that this school doesn't exist at all. He's got a degree, but he doesn't have a program and a plan for that school. It's easy to manipulate that. Today, this man, as he would have said to himself, is a master of doctoral science. Imagine how far he got!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31510	Thank you. I apologize to the Minister for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. - A violation of dignity, because of the waiters. Since Mr Jesic, a longtime waiter, and Mr Radoslav Milojičić Heinekena are not here because of this kelnerisation, and since Mr Jesic has studied for 13 years and has successfully performed the kellar trade for one three years, I am under obligation for dual education and for education with the work to get up, regardless of what political opponents are involved, in their defence. So, I welcome that they as waiters have made progress, that they have taken...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31512	And where did I hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31513	You didn't pay attention when it came to waiters. So, they have the right for waiters to, by studying with work, reach the highest education, say, agricultural education, even though some of them have seen agricultural cultures only from cars. So Mr. Jesic and Mr. Milojic had the right to study with work. The problem of education and the problem of those who controlled them, the problem of the party of the former regime, is that they may have allowed it to be in a very strange way, to be with dinner, with lunch, with a drink. But since there are other waiters, I have to get up to protect the waiters and think that in a certain way dignity has been injured and that they have the right, that they have studied in a regular way, that they have the right to assume important state functions. And the fact that they robbed the country by the way, that's another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31514	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Milorad Mircic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31515	I'm advocating a violation of article 106. Namely, the speaker talked about everything, just didn't talk about the agenda point. He didn't say what was a fundamental remark. Mr. Risticevic, colleague Risticevic, you have misread my words. I don't mean to argue with a colleague, but you have two types of waiters. So you've got the district waiters and you've got the general waiters. There is also the third in the people to be called - weddings and funerals, but it is not officially recognised. You were talking about maybe the district waiters. They're waiters who, for example, do examples of showing you three tables in a restaurant, because they can't remember a complete order, and then three tables. These are equal to qualifications, qualifications frameworks, gentlemen, with economists. And when they plead, when you ask them what they are by qualification and education, they say economists. Why? Because one big mistake was made, three-year education, unintendedly or otherwise translated into something that lasts for four years, so you have people who not only mentioned Marijan Risticevic, you have people who have big bomber nicknames like, Baby, say, when represented and then said, I'm an economist. And in fact, he's a funeral and wedding waiter. That's what this is all about, Mr. Risticevic. You didn't get me very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31516	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31517	Just to remind myself that in this home we adopted the Law on Dual Education and that this is what you're talking about is real reality and that people are not only taken from the economy then, as the best technologists, to teach students something, but what this technology is outdated and that we now have these people in principle to simulate some kind of student training. But, in some ways, we're slowly a group that retires, but we're also transferring them to follow the work of children during production and learning. But we've got better coordinators now, because we've defined that those who know more about technology take part in it. So this category is slowly disappearing. I just can't go back, go back to that Shuvar reform that must have done it badly in these elements. What is very important is that in this new law we also have permanent education with work, which gives everyone the right to school and learn and make progress, because at that point he can be impotent to learn, so he sees that he is capable, that he can earn better. There are also ways to pass a professional graduation to further improve, not to say life-long, but to perfect it for the rest of your life, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31518	Thank you, Minister. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31519	Just for the sake of clarity. It's obvious that, conditionally speaking, there's been a misunderstanding. It's about what we insist on. We insist that the certificate of qualification be not only a diploma or a certificate, but a plan and a programme, because that is why there was a mistake, Minister. They are with a plan and program of three-year secondary education, completed trade, with some possibly courses produced in teachers, professors of practical teaching. And here we have a situation now in the newer time to finish, an example works, not out of some bad intentions, in Zajecar, a higher one that lasts just as long as he gets a degree, and then nostifices that degree at one of the colleges of private and with such a defect in personal education is named or produced as a professor or produced as an engineer or produced in an economist. So there must still be something called the plan and the program by which that diploma or that certificate was acquired, if we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31520	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31521	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply sorry that we are not discussing, in my opinion, the other two more important laws on this activity, the Law on textbooks and the Law on Educational Inspection. I have submitted an amendment to point 1 of point 12 of this Article 2 which reads: “Unformal education is an organised process of adult learning that is achieved on the basis of specific programmes for the acquisition of knowledge, skills and skills and the basis for work. ” It's stuck here in the text. With my amendment, we ask for this comma to be deleted and the point to be placed, and words after this text that reads: "personal and social development" are deleted. Why did I ask you to delete these words? Because it's about adults who are not only personal and social, but also physical, and mental, and intellectual and every biological, physiological and every other kind of development is over. Let me just add that today, speaking of an amendment to the first member of this law, speaking of the number of these qualifications, or the number of titles, I was not sure whether 2000 qualifications were. I checked later, it's more than 2,000 qualifications. And just one more thing, in the reasons for not accepting my amendment, you stated - the amendment is not accepted since the solution is proposed by the bill more comprehensively. Is that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31522	Thank you, Professor Boyich. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marjana Marash and Joseph Broz together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31523	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MP Joseph Broz, grandson Joseph Broz Tito and I, have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The amendment shall be subject to a legal and technical order of this provision. The amendment was rejected because of a different language formulation, not because it is not essential, but suggests a different language formulation. We truly support all the proposed laws in this unique joint search, and we simply thought by this amendment that technical correction is for the sake of a clearer definition of the legal provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31524	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Filipovski's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31525	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as well as in the interpretation of the previous amendment, and in this I will stick to the agenda and I will speak exclusively of education, i.e. on the draft law on the National Qualifications Framework. Knowledge today is a base resource station and the only real source of competitive advantage, and that's why I'm in Article 2. The draft legislation on the National Qualifications Framework proposes to add point 15, which refers to the affirmation of acquired qualifications. My view is that affirmation of acquired qualifications can be achieved in two ways. First, through the constant process of learning and gaining new knowledge, and others through good organisation and human resources management activities in institutions and all organisations, which are, above all, planning, selection, training, employee development, performance assessment and, of course, rewarding employees, all in order to increase the efficiency of workers. In today's conditions, all management research shows that in modern conditions of business, competitive market advantage will be achieved through organisations that have qualified well-trained and motivated workforce.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31526	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31527	In the previous amendment to Article 1 concerning the definition of the subject matter of the law, I proposed adding the term "European integration". Since Article 2 of this Law refers to an explanation of the basic concepts, I believe that the logical addition of Article 15, which would explain the importance of the Eurointegration process in the introduction of the National Qualifications Framework. Significant support for the organisation of joint meetings, round tables and workshops was also given by the European Training Foundation, which is the institution of the European Commission, and I have already mentioned when discussing the previous amendment and the significant financial resources that we receive for the implementation of this law. The introduction of NOK is fully in line with European recommendations, especially for the valaging of informal, informative and lifelong learning. In this way a better review is created, i.e. the precise base of all knowledge and skills owned by an individual, because someone, for example, gained certain knowledge from a particular field by working experience, but his formal education applies to another area and therefore it is extremely important to recognise knowledge gained by work experience in NOK and I am sure that this will contribute to faster employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31528	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31529	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Honorable Minister Sarcevic with his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia is 48th in terms of gender equality and when it comes to the criteria of the World Economic Forum. We have a really good result when it comes to the availability of education. So we have the same absolute treatment for our girls and boys, both men and women when it comes to the availability of education in Serbia. Otherwise, in addition to education, the availability of economy, politics and health was measured. Indeed, the measurement refers to a scale of 1 to 0 and as for education, equal availability of education, both men and women, we have a score of 0.99, which is a really phenomenal result and I thank you for that. You really do have the compliments on my part. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 relating to the basic concepts and their meaning that define NOK. In order not only to achieve excellent results on gender equality in the education system, we must also take into account other categories of society. We're having a very specific phenomenon. Our women, our ladies, our girls really do record excellent results in both primary and secondary education and then college, specialist studies, postgraduate studies, doctoral dissertations. But when it comes to economics and politics, somehow they don't get into the first place. With that in mind, I have submitted this amendment. Also, I want to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia has actually recognised that women are the key resource necessary for the development of the Republic of Serbia and significant financial resources, over a million dinars, are actually investing in the development of women's entrepreneurship and new start-ups where women are the owners of new businesses and businesses in Serbia. Together with our fellow men, we can break down these glass walls that exist both in the economy and in politics. As women, we can really have equal salaries for the jobs we do together with our colleagues. We can have bigger pensions when we meet the criteria. Also, I would like to tell all women in Serbia that as a society and as a political party to which I belong, the SNS means we really cultivate equal chances of equal opportunities, regardless of any discrimination based on gender or gender. We must, Mr. Sarcevic, remove all those gender stereotypes that rule in our textbooks, in our schools, but also in the media. You said earlier that you had contacted the editor of "Evening News" and that you had rightly criticised negative inscriptions on high school students. Please do when it comes to textbooks and other elements. I come from Rakovica and I can proudly say that two elementary schools will be restored this year. OS "Vladimir Rolovic" at Petlov Brdo, which after 50 years receives really significant funding from the government of the Republic of Serbia. The municipality did its job. The Municipality of Rakovica has prepared a project for the reconstruction and reconstruction of this school. The Public Investment Office also provided significant funds during this year, during the summer break, two primary schools, the Vladimir Rolovic OS at Petlov Brdo and OS "Branko Ćopić" will be reconstructed. Please don't let us stop at this and provide the Fifth Economic School with adaptation and reconstruction, but also to build a physical hall that it lacks. Also, I want to say next. We need to provide our girls and boys with equal conditions for the acquisition of new knowledge, as well as quality teaching programs, quality schools. We must also respect those positive examples that other legislative bodies in EU countries are actually adopting. In 2015, the European Parliament adopted the so-called "Rodriguez Report" which speaks of the need for empowerment through the education of girls at EU level. Serbia is catching up with developed countries and current steps are for development, not only of women's entrepreneurship, but also of women's innovation enterprise. The government of the Republic of Serbia has provided more than 100,000 dinars this year for the IT sector and for the development of the area. Also, I want to say that it is important to look at where we are as a society, what our real opportunities are at this point and when it comes to the education system and when it comes to the labour market and when it comes to all the necessary reforms that we want to achieve in the next period so that we can move forward as a society. Also, I really want to say that ladies in Serbia are often more successful during schooling, often more successful than their male colleagues. The girls are better than their boys, but we must take care of other categories, when it comes to politics, when it comes to economics, we must have more ladies in the policy system, in political parties, we must have more ladies when it comes to making important decisions for this country. We have to fight that the ladies in this country have bigger salaries and higher pensions. In the end, I don't want to raise women, but I want quality to surface and women just get the place they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31530	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31531	Just to supplement your finding that the Fifth Economic School has entered the program, that there is an upgrade of the school and everything else that is very important for years and decades, but that the school has not provided an O.R. project. The reason was the parcels there that were done with the other neighbors, the users, so it had to be re-parked in order to do the joke. The funds for the O.R. are provided, it's necessary to do the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31532	Thank you, Minister. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31533	I thank the chairman. Projected GDP growth rate for 2018 of 3.5%, which certainly depends on the rate of investment growth projected by 5.1%. The Ministry of Education's development budget, amounting to 197.3 billion dinars in this year, is one of the drivers of development and improvement of the overall economy, which is seen through the Law on NOKS and its implementation. Ensuring conditions for adequate employment is a basic mechanism for modern societies to protect their citizens from the risk of poverty and social exclusion. The improvement of the economy, through indirect and direct investments, affects the development of education and overcoming the problem of education inconsistencies with the needs of the economy, and thus the balance of supply and demand of labour in the labour market. The labour market is a place for production of formal and informal education, and their equipment with competences, skills and knowledge will have a positive effect on adequate inclusion. Qualification should show what a certain person can do and can do, not just what school equipment he has and which school he has finished. Supporting the digitalisation programme in the field of the national education system of 307.000,000 investments in teaching content, digital textbook and digital classroom in basic education with 307.000,000 are certainly investments that will affect the overall development of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31534	Thank you, colleague Kostic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Bug Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31535	I thank the chairman. I would like to propose an amendment to the NOX bill, which affects the very text of the law in part of the basic concepts. Although the text of the law is more than precise, it has regulated the area of education and acquired qualifications, I believe that with the notion of – the affirmation of acquired qualifications, as capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the efficiency of local self-government, would further regulate it and thus improve the text of the law. The importance of local self-government is enormous, in order to have an effective local self-government, it is necessary that the acquired knowledge of state employees in local self-government be in the service of citizens and businesses. Capitalisation of acquired knowledge is necessary, which must be aimed at further rationalising the state administration. Standardisation, certainty and equality of outcomes are the principles that this law contains and which are the main postulates of any effective local self-government. I would like to commend, among other things, the minister who kept his promise and visited 90% of the schools in Serbia and, on the spot, convinced himself of the state and on the spot repairing the situation and the promise that it would continue to work. I would like to commend the entire ministry that the education system is accelerated and, more and more, looks like a European practice in education and my fellow MPs, I ask that in the day of voting, they find strength and time to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31536	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Goran Pekarski, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31537	Thank you, Chairman. Here, we came in at ten, nine o'clock this morning as we were here, some MPs were a little nervous, some were upset, some were laughing, but it's all evidence that we're all getting a little tired together, but it's not weird, either, but we've got a minister here patiently with us all day and some would say it's his job, but apart from what his job is, he's actively involved in the discussion here today, along with his associate, which is for every commendation. I would like to say that I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the proposal, and I have suggested adding point 15, which is: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications, capitalisation of acquired knowledge to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on capacity utilisation." I would also like to commend our two fellow MPs who have actively participated here today in the development of these amendments and we have spent so many hours, we have already arrived in the late hours, but not so late and to say that it is no wonder that they are using and so some of their writings, some of the written things they are helping with, because it is all a living word here and we are inclined to make a mistake. These laws that we have received are written and if we were to remember all of this and if we were to learn all of this in mind, all of the laws that we have received, and in fact there are five of them in the session that we have received, and if we were to teach all of these amendments by heart, I think that on the basis of point 14, the recognition of previous learning, or the term used, is equal to the term of validation of normal and informal and informative learning and lifelong learning, we might be able to get some title by NOX, because imagine that for the next four years we are learning the laws by heart and after four years to recognize this acquired learning, or lifelong learning. So much for now, I don't want to be too long, since we're already late, and my dear colleagues need to take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31538	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31539	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, let me first say that Article 2, since I don't think anyone has mentioned it so far, because of the viewers, refers to a clear definition of the basic concepts and their meanings used in this law. These terms and interpretations of their meaning are given in 14 points. We propose by amendment the addition of the fifteenth point in Article 2 which would read: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications – capitalisation of acquired knowledge to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of the education system". You see, by adding this 15th point, I think that it would represent a summary of all the above mentioned and explained terms, because affirmation of the qualifications acquired is a sure and basic objective of this law, although the objectives are given in the next article that we are going to discuss, so that by accepting the 15th point, they actually recapitulate one basic purpose and the basic objective of this law. How do affirmations of acquired qualifications are achieved? I think it's clear to all of us that the application of acquired knowledge and the application of acquired skills in your work and work is actually affirmative and that acquired knowledge. The application of acquired knowledge and skills at all levels of qualifications, on all types of qualifications, as it is said of levels and different types of qualifications, would certainly affirm this law, this NOX. In this regard, it should be added that, in addition to the application of knowledge and skills here, a direct and clear connection with employers, with the economy and the labour market because some MPs and we are aware, it is commented that there are appropriate profiles on the labour market that have been acquired through clearly defined education without being recognized by the labour market. On the other hand, employers and individual economic operators show the need for appropriate profiles that are not available on the labour market. The linkage and acceptance of this NOKS will certainly improve, reverse the development of the education system, determine and edit programmes and plans of relevant profiles for which both the employer and the labour market are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31540	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Ostora Mijailovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31541	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this Article, point 15 I have proposed, points out the importance of the NOX Act in the affirmation of acquired qualifications, in order to fully develop our country with a special emphasis on the development of regional medical centres. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the fact that investment in staff investment in the future, a safe path to prosperity and the development of the state, so it has employed more than 8,000 healthcare workers in health institutions throughout Serbia since 2014. In the same period, 5,590 specialization and subspecies were allocated and thus began to correct the decade-long mistakes that our health care has led to the situation that most specialists were facing retirement without having anyone to replace them. For the first time, the specialists were able to compete with the unemployed doctors of medicine, without a two-year training, and thus made it impossible to disqualify young people who, while waiting for a job, could not use them to perfect themselves. The results of this kind of visionary policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be seen at the end of this year when young experts in the field of radiology, anesthesiology, pediatrics, dermatovenerology and other deficitary branches of medicine will be ready to succeed, but also to overcome current experts. Serbia's government's responsible and system-based staff policy has avoided the situation in which we have found ourselves before the reforms started, that we lack professional and trained doctors. By enabling regular and professional training and adequate working conditions that include modern equipment, conditions are created for new generations of doctors to contribute to the development of health care and thus to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31542	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31543	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which concerns the affirmation of qualifications in order to develop the Republic of Serbia, as well as the protection of vulnerable social groups. First, I have to point out that Article 2. The draft law refers to the labelling of basic concepts. First of all, I have to express the satisfaction that the concepts explain, precise, quite clear and summed up, the outcome of learning. Why is it important that this concept is precise? It is important from the point of view of the verifiableness of every knowledge, whether it is acquired through a formal process of education, through an informal process of education, through information learning or through lifelong learning. When it comes to students with developmental and disability disorders, I must commend the Ministry of Education that it has made huge efforts to adapt both textbooks and curricula and the programme to children's needs with developmental disorders, i.e. students with disabilities. Namely, every child, or every student, especially these disciples, should develop in harmony with their needs. This school recognizes, draws up individual plans, through which these children acquire knowledge and ultimately acquire qualifications. It is very important for the percentage to be included in these children through primary school, but also later on through enrolment in high school, because only by obtaining qualifications directly affects their employability and thus reduce poverty. I also have to commend the Ministry for the possibility of opening resource centres with asyssistic technologies and aids in order to improve the quality of learning of such students and how they can contribute to improving the knowledge of people with disabilities and developmental disorders. I must stress that the City of Belgrade has provided 330 personal escorts for children with developmental disturbances, as well as 52 personal assistants. I'm saying this precisely because the job of gaining the qualification of percentages involving children with development disorders is not only a question of the Ministry of Education, but it's also a question of local self-government, social protection and other health care systems, etc. I'll only make two parallels regarding support services that apply to children. One parallel from the time of Gilas when 2,000 square meters were irregularly usurped in the most elite part of the Kosutnjak and, instead of the children's daily centre, a facility was built for the needs of the Big Brother, 688.5 million crisscrossed in private pockets. All that's left behind is a wreck. This is what the citizens can see - ruins, waste, mice and dead rats. In March 22nd of this year, an object was opened in Ovca, or living room for children with developmental disturbances, size 320 square meters, and there are 30 children. It was built with the highest possible standards, and this is what a space that is adapted from the entrance to the needs of these children as well as from the inner setting looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31544	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31545	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia, which adds point 15 to Article 2 – the affirmation of acquired qualifications - the capitalisation of bankruptcy skills in order to comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to industrialisation. During education, we obtain certain qualifications, but with the completion of schooling, the need to improve does not stop. On the contrary, it is only then that we enter the need to improve our knowledge and qualifications and to perfect them. To do a good job, we have to study our whole lives to be as effective as possible. Industry is moving very fast today. And in order to have the best results, we need to keep track of what's new on the market and to achieve the best possible results to improve our competences. Minister Sarcevic recognized all this, and that is why we are discussing this law today. In order for children to successfully finish their education or to acquire qualifications, they need to have modern schools with well - equipped cabinets. The ministry of education headed by Minister Sarcevic has managed to solve many problems others could not. That's the best we can see on the Alexine case. Upgrade of the “LJupce Niković” elementary school has just been completed and classroom equipment is under way. But it's not the only investment education in Alexinco. A complete reconstruction of another major elementary school "Vozd Karajordje" has been completed, which has not had more significant investments since it was built. But it's not over here. We are well on the way to the Agricultural School in Aleksinec, with the great help of the minister, finally obtaining its new building which began to be built far away in 2016. Construction is not finished and Minister Sarcevic has only managed to resolve the accumulated problems with his team, and I hope that by the end of the year and at this school in Aleksinec, work will begin at the end of the facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31546	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Col. Lukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31547	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Amendment to Article 2. I proposed that item 15 be added to the proposal for this law concerning the capitalisation of acquired knowledge and the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. The development of technology and economic change condition the adjustment of education to market needs so that an individual is employable in an optimal period and that what he learns can be put into place to improve his position on the labour market. We need in addition to traditional educational directions that would allow for concrete application of acquired knowledge and meet the needs of the market. Since the largest potential of Bajina Basta, where I come from, tourism, i.e. my municipality has the largest potential for tourism development in Serbia, because we have the most beautiful mountain Tara, which is traditionally an air spa, the most beautiful river Drina, the shortest river Vrelo, numerous monuments of culture and natural beauty, is necessary to effectively manage tourist potentials achieved through the adoption and application of the strategy and development of tourism in the area of Bajina Basta, which would provide for all potential destinations and necessary conditions for the development of tourism infrastructure, and whose application would invite investors from around the world to invest in the development of tourism infrastructure. In order to optimally develop Bajina Basta municipality, qualified tourist guides are needed, a tourist inspector is needed, as is the organisation of professional practice for chefs and waiters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31548	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojljković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Colleginica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31549	Thank you, Chairman. I have proposed an amendment to be made in Article 2. The bill adds item 15, which reads – the affirmation of acquired qualifications – the capitalisation of acquired knowledge to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on inclusive education. The concept of the proposed law represents a very suitable basis and an opportunity to focus special attention on the concept of inclusive education as one of its most significant integrals. The school should be open to all pupils of all age groups with special focus on children and adults with developmental disturbances and children from marginalised groups. The rights of each person must be respected and respected, and in the state and its education system it is an obligation to provide equal conditions for all to be educated and further improved. The benefits of an inclusive approach are multiple with a special focus on persons from the category of sensitive groups and these are a feeling of acceptance with the possibility of establishing friendship and self-esteem, an increased ability to learn through interaction with others, in a natural peer group, the ability to engage in life and work, and in extreme, contentment with life, increased ability to care for themselves and independence with the ability to work and earn. Benefits for society in general would be the full exploitation of human potentials in terms of employment and productivity, less separation for social giving and health care and more tolerance for society in terms of social cohesion, social democracy and political stability. Finally, by estimating this additional position which is subsequently regulated and supplemented by Article 2. The draft law of this amendment was my intention to encourage and sublime all of the above-mentioned items provided for in this Article of the bill, in particular stressing the importance and character of its inclusive element in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-02-0.u31550	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) With this discussion, we're done with today's work and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
