ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 72 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 98 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The MPs will not be present today: Dusko Tarbuk and Gordana Komic, according to their personal notice. We continue the joint principled Single Search on the proposals for the act referred to in point 1. - The 33rd agenda. We continue with the debate and the word has an MP, Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42971	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, when it comes to pensions on 24 September 2000, elections took place, elections that broke that Serbia would go to Europe, that it would not close itself and that it would repay all its debts to those to whom it owed, that it would restore relations with its neighbours and become part of the world again. The coalition, led by Slobodan Milosevic together with the SRS, owed 12 pensions to pensioners, 18 agricultural pensions and 24 social assistance. What is essential is that after 24 September 2000, after the DOS victory, everything returned to the pensioners to the last dinar with a tight interest, as well as a harmonised inflation rate, everything that was owed until then. Here in front of Serbian citizens and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we promise that we will return everything you have taken from the pensioners in these four years with a tight interest rate and compliance with the inflation rate because the pension property has been earned during the working century by each of the pensioners who have the right to do so. In the 1990s, and I'm really sorry that I didn't have a chance to show you how many dozens of physical attacks and abuses took place and took place on pensioners who were waiting for their retirement in front of postage savings during those years. When they were getting a pension, waiting for it, they were dividing it into three or four pieces. That's what the records say. They put it in three or four pockets that if a bandit met them on the street and tried to steal their pension and found them a pension, even if they only gave one piece, and somehow kept the rest of the pension. In various ways, pensioners of the '90s were hatched to preserve what they had earned by suffering. From 2014 until today, pensions are taken in the same way, only in white gloves, not by physical coercion, but by disregarding the law and the Constitution and pensioners now could not even keep one part of their pension, but by law, how and how their pension will be reduced, or kidnapped. For this reason, there is no significant difference between the '90s and today, and that is what is the essence of my address, but just as we promised, on September 24, 2000, 18 years ago, and today we promise to return pensions to the pensioners, which are their earned pensions representing their personal and personal property, after the shift of the Alexander Vukic regime. What's the letter to the pensioners if you think this policy is justified? Why a letter for a million and 700 thousand pensioners if you think you've done the right thing and the right thing to do and the right thing to do and the right thing to do? A million and 700,000 letters, and I received an offer from various agencies dealing with letter delivery, a million and 700,000 letters that will be written by the President of the Republic, with a minimum of 18 dinars per letter. I suppose it will not work as president of the Republic of Serbia, but as president of the SNS, since the SNS is the one that is wealthy in the country, the only party that has a substantial amount of money in its account, but the 250 000 euros, I ask you, could we have used smarter? Is that enough money for one or ten kids to be treated with text messages to use that money that way? The particular question is, where do we get the addresses of those to whom these letters will be sent, and that is one very important thing if we want to stay under the rule of law and rule of law? Assistant Minister Zoran Milosevic, I assume, is not with Minister Djordjevic in the Assembly today, said several days ago on the assembly board that in 2014, the Law on Reduction, i.e. Forced Pay, was passed in such a way that that money could never be returned to pensioners. I repeat, in 2014, you consciously passed the law so that everything that was taken away from the pensioners in the meantime, that it was no longer by law to return to them. It's a kind of prank that you've been talking about and that you've been passing here in congregation halls as some kind of big policy that's going to rebirth Serbia. What was reborn from that money? What did we get from that money the pensioners were denied for? Who got a job with that money? Is there a daughter, son, grandson or grandson of any high SNS official who doesn't have a job? There isn't. Are there grandchildren and grandchildren who have been hired by pensioners who have reduced pensions? I don't think so either. While some have decided to leave this country permanently and forever. I think that money was spent exclusively on the top of the state and on the top of the SNS because the essence of these six years is that only you live better and your families, while the families of the pensioners, 700 thousand of them have barely made ends meet and their assets have been taken away in these four years. I won't owe it because the second part of my presentation will also be devoted to the education laws. What is worrying is that today we marvel at various phenomena in society. One of these is the privatisation of the PKK. I think the most recent privatisation of the PIO Fund, which will be led by the SNS from today in a way that, according to its opinion and charity, will share pensions from the election cycle to the election cycle, reduce them and increase them in the way that Slobodan Milosevic could not have done it either. There's no more legal certainty for any pensioner, or for those pensioners who haven't been reduced pensions, millions and 200,000 of them, or for those pensioners you're boasting their pensions were never bigger. That's under 20,000 dinars. Therefore, I believe that this legal certainty will lead to that, i.e. legal uncertainty, that future generations will bypass this debilitated PIO Fund and will pay contributions in private pension funds. Are you aware that you have destroyed forever by this bill a fund that has existed for decades and decades and in the worst crises managed to resist all temptations and pensions to be such a certainty? Private pension funds will be the ones to earn and be the ones to be legally determined, and the PIO Fund has become the Serbian Progressive Party's fund, which serves to make a promise before each election cycle and to, and to take something of course, after the elections have been completed. The investments you boast about will not be enough to ensure a proper payment of pensions from the PIO Fund over the next 20 years. That, of course, you know that, too, but you don't care, because then you certainly won't be in power. But you can't have a policy for young people to leave the country, to have a 200-euro salary investment on some strips, and to think that that way you'll have enough money to pay off pensions for 1,700,000 pensioners. In this way, Serbia will become a Chinese cafeteria, in which there will be no pension, and wages will be so high that they will not be able to live. What, to end, remains more than a shame, when it comes to this law, is the famous achievement of financial stability. The financial stability depends on the pension, not on how much who worked and paid into the fund. That's what's the biggest distraction for us when it comes to this law. The financial stability depends, as you know, on Jorgenka Tabakovic, depending partly on many ministers in this government, depends, of course, on those investments with which you boasted, such as "Er Serbia", we invested hundreds of millions of euros, and eventually we got a lou bone company that charges a bottle of water to its passengers. So financial stability in Serbia is not a certainty, which means that even pensions from now on will not be a certainty. I think it's very important to repeat that the regime's hands are deep in the pockets of pensioners and that from the election cycle to the election cycle, the charity will be shared by what someone has done with their torment and their hard work. Certainly, and I end it, and the Constitutional Court and the laws are not in line with your proposed solution. That, of course, will depend on your political and every other destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42972	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. After him, Verica Radeta, Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42973	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, MPs of Dragan Gilas, one of the largest tycoon and criminals in Serbia's recent history, above all, should return what they took from 2000 to 2012. But don't forget that this same Dragan Djilas, whose MP we just heard, stole people's money and during Slobodan Milosevic he acquired his capital during the 1990s, so he was not very bad under Slobodan Milosevic's regime. Just as the previous speaker is not bad in the government led by Aleksandar Vukic, because if it is so bad, how is it that a young man who, apart from being a MP, has done nothing else in his life, can fly to the Maldives? Well, it's not a bad economy in Serbia when a young man can afford it. We ask that DS and all those who follow Dragan Gilas today return to the citizens of Serbia what they have taken from October 5, 2000, all that you privatised, all those sugars you privatised by three euros, all those companies from Subotica to Vranja that you have ruined, to return the people's money to the people you left out of work at the time of Boris Tadic, when in four years more than 400,000 people lost their jobs. Return what you have taken, and then we can talk about whether the moves taken by the current Serbian government are good or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42974	Time. Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42975	Thank you, President. First of all, you've mixed up a few important things, but that doesn't surprise me, since you have no good intentions. Dragan Gilas in the 1990s did not work at all in Serbia, but everything he gained came from abroad. You can check that very easily and easily. And I think you risk being sued. And you've already paid fines in several hundred thousand dinars. So, I don't think that's worth it. By 2004, he was not an active political actor, only after 2004, so it had nothing to do with October 5, 2000. What's important is that I don't respond to other insults that have nothing to do with life, what's important is that you need to know and be aware of it, we know that it hurts that you're sickened by 700,000 pensioners, at least as you say. But on the other hand, you didn't do anything to pay them back. We've proposed a law. I've had the honor of being an authorized lawmaker in front of all the opposition groups, to return to those pensioners, 700,000 of them, everything you've taken from them for the past four years. Well, don't tell others they're tycoons when you have tycoons in your ranks. One more thing. Was it since October 5, 2000, were there people who got rich in one way or another? Yes, and today they are officials and members of the SNS, not the opposition. For this reason, you have no right to defile, first of all, someone who is not in this House, to make false statements, and on the other hand, that you have done nothing to repay the money to those to whom you have taken that money. Your policy is – kidnap while I am in power, as much as possible. It'll end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42976	Time. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that this Gilas coalition is too wide, so they're not quite synchronised like they're supposed to be talking. Here is one of the leaders of the Gilas coalition, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, said – Dragan Djilas entered the business with the media during the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, when it was possible or foreign agents, such as his partner from the beginning of B92 Veran Matic or reliable people of the Milosevic married couple. So that's what your coalition partner Bosko Obradovic said. You're all in one big coalition now. I advise you, before you enter the National Assembly, you must, since you have a very broad coalition, there are tycoon and thieves, there are also Latvians, meaning, quite a variety of coalitions, you have to meet more regularly, more regularly to carry out consultations, to know who's talking and who's defending who. Dragan Djilas, to remind you, Mr Bozovic, you seem to have forgotten this, has a lot to do with the regime that was established in 2000, because it is contrary to the Constitution, when Boris Tadic was elected president of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, appointed director of the so-called "The Constitution". People's offices, which have served to pump out money, people's money, state money, for the DS campaign since 2004, as long as the people's office existed. And if someone's an expert in pumping out people's money, then that's your real boss, Dragan Gillas. Don't cry and complain that we can't mention him, because he's not here. You're here, you're his MPs, everyone here in the crowd, and there's no difference between you and him. The only thing you're interested in is sitting back on the back of the people and stealing again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42978	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42979	The Serbian Radical Party has presented its position on proposals from today's session and will continue to stand, but Balsa Bozovic mentioned in his historical review that the SRS is guilty of destroying pension funds. I recall that Serbian radicals were part of the government at the republical level for two and a half years with the SPS, and we are very proud of that part of our political and professional action, moral, above all, unlike these Balšins, but at that time we started to solve the problem of pensioners and pensions were returned in the way that was then only possible and the pensioners were satisfied with what was done then, like all Serbian citizens, but then those who, Balša Bozovic as a nine-year-old boy, but a good memory served him, thought he, then in opposition, representatives of DOS, leaders of DOS, began to call on Serbia to bomb in order to remove Slobodan Milosevic, and this bombing interrupted further activities. Let's go a little closer to history. Balsa Bozovic, or those who were before him during the 2000 DOS, are the ones who essentially destroyed Serbia in every sense, both politically and economically, in every sense. Robbery privatisations. It's your ID. Extradition of Serbs to the UN tribunal. It's your ID. What you did at the time at KIM, or Borko Stefanovic. Who introduced the Supreme Court, who introduced the constitutional court into the false state of Kosovo? Who removed the catastre from Serbia from the fake state of Kosovo? Who took their ID cards? All of it, gentlemen, you did it and it's your ID.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42980	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42981	Just one more sentence. As for the pension fund, I recommend that Mr Bozovic fly a little less in the Maldives because he's filling funds there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42982	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42983	So, I'm just going to say it again, I'm not responding to insults again, because I've been used to it for a few years and I really don't have time to do it. Twelve pensions, and thank you for saying that you were and that you're proud of it because your fellow SNS colleagues this morning are gonna shut up about it. I don't know if they're proud. You owe 12 pensions. When the elections were on September 24, 2000, 18 agricultural pensions, 24 social aid. That's what we got back, and you say you're proud of it. So, after 2000, when the country was recovering and the state's budget was being filled, you said that we were traitors, and today you're saying, first, that I was nine years old, and then when I was nine years old, you accuse me of participating in robbery privatisations. So that's all you can say, because you don't have any politics. Seven hundred thousand pensioners lost their pensions because you took their pensions. You can insult me now, but it's true, ask them, not me. Seven hundred thousand people were robbed. It's their property. It happened that someone took something from someone during that period of Communism, so it bothers you, and it doesn't bother you when you take what you have gained through hard work for these four years. So, you can insult as much as you want, you can mention this flying nonsense, you can do whatever you want, but the fact is that what you've been doing to the people of the '90s, first of all to the pensioners, you're still doing today, and that's the same coalition, because you were both in parliament and then in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42984	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42985	Mr. Bozovic was nine or ten at the time, and I didn't say he personally participated in these robbery privatisations. I said it was the DS where he couldn't be at all that age, but his dad was one of his high-ranking officials. Why are you talking about those pensions that we stayed in debt, that weren't paid? Why don't you say which way you came to power? Why didn't you allow normal elections to continue the policy that was led until then? Why did you call for Serbia to be bombed, and why did your friends accept it then? You're the one who came to power in a coup. You're the one who burned down this building that we're sitting in right now. You're the one who burned the paperwork from those choices when you declared your victory. The truth is, I don't know why you find it offensive when we talk about robbery privatisations. It's a public secret, the sparrows on the branch know. Everything you've touched has been within the scope of robbery privatisation. Hundreds of thousands of people you've left out of work. You, Mr. Balsa Bozovic, who increased the number of social cases because since 2000, a large number of people at their best, 50 years old, have been out of work, without being able to work elsewhere. These people and their families became at that time, unfortunately to this day and to this day, social cases. It is a great responsibility for all the representatives of the DOS and all those who are now following them and all those who are now in this new DOS or what is the name of this Gilas coalition. It is a great responsibility for all of you for all the accidents that took place in Serbia from 2000 to today. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replication or violation of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42986	Replica no, since you are not Balša Bozovic, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure can.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42987	Dear Chairman, I would like to ask that Article 104 be fully respected. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly that you have broken several times. I have repeatedly suggested to you, reporting through the electronic system and, let me put it this verbally and directly, that I have absolutely the right to replication, namely the presentation of the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandr Martinović, who directly mentioned me by my name and last name, which is the basis under Article 104(1) for obtaining the right to replication. It's just amazing that we of the opposition can't answer the calls, insults, slanders and the constant labelling that comes from the ruling majority. I guess it's a basic democratic and parliamentary right so we can respond to attacks. Imagine how problematic this is when Aleksandar Martinovic tells Boska Obradovic, and I have no right to answer him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42988	Yeah, don't get into a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42989	So I have no right to respond to attacks or to mention my name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42990	Only when you get by Article 104 paragraph 1, 2, 3 and 4. You did not read it well, because according to Section 3. there is one person who decides whether he has a basis for replication or not. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42991	I thank you, President. Serbian citizens could hear who knows how many times so far such pointless speech, empty and aimless, what kind of speech Balsa Bozovica was. It's amazing that someone without any shame, without any shame, says something and stays on their feet with moral credibility, obviously he's gone. Why am I saying this? Because no single message is sent to the citizens. In fact, it is one thing, which is that DS definitely has no politics, and since it has no politics and it is a completely senseless party, then in one extremely embarrassing way it goes back into the past and is totally no good at digging through the costumes of Slobodan Milosevic. I ask the question that Serbian citizens will also ask in the elections, of course, and the answer will certainly be the disappearance of DS from the political scene. What did the Democratic Party gentlemen do after October 5th? What promises have the citizens fulfilled? When they are called on 12 pensions, let them not forget that on September 24th, Slobodan Milosevic was voted by nearly two million people, that all the elections until then and when there were sanctions and when the Serb people survived the gogoto, the SPS won unimpeached elections. Let them explain to citizens why the issue of Kosovo's solution has been removed from the UN and transferred to the EU? How did they win this election on September 24th, if it wasn't for the money of those who financed them, those who were making a geopolitical map of the world and contributed to both 1996 and 2000 to stimulate those who were telling lies and lies?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42992	Thank you. Let's move on, really an hour of replica, I think we've cleared up everything that was said in the previous speech. Next speaker, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42993	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have on the agenda very current topics that have been here since Friday and the attempts of certain political groups, since we no longer know whether these are parties or individuals who support certain power centres, whether financial or some media, such as Mr Gilas, because he is the headquarters of a media picture of Serbia in which he wants to promote abroad that there is a certain kind of democracy here, even when it comes to pensions. When it comes to pensions, we have to say that harmonising pensions is one of the most important tasks of each government of Serbia, each country, and when we talk about the government paying all 12 pensions it owed by October 5th, then the question arises -- in relation to what the coordination looked at, when the exchange rate at that time was 60 dinars for one euro, and it adjusted to the salaries and pensions that were three euros, that is, the part relating to Serbia's time in Yugoslavia when it was going through the most difficult economic moments. When we ask such questions, then we can ask the question -- why didn't pensions come back from the level and time of Ante Markovic, when they were 1000 marks, or 500 euros, if we're counting on today's course? So the political platform of certain parties at the time was to calm down all the tensions that ruled in 2000 and to start a new policy of Serbia in which, in fact, on October 5th, it was a moment of lost hopes that the citizens of Serbia had at the time. I'm sure they didn't vote for the changes in which they justified the robbery privatisations and the taking of jobs and the closure of the factories. Surely they did not vote for platforms that are on the political scene today, that physically attack women, that they are breaking into the houses of political insolents, as we have in Sapac, surely we do not have the abuse of women, especially those who have certain opinions, which support the current political parties, not only SNS, but all parties that support Alexander Vukic's policy. What we need to say today is – thank you to the pensioners for trusting Alexander Vukic and the SNS and the coalition partners to implement economic reforms, to submit the sacrifices the pensioners made the most and that today they have a chance to get it all back in that part. When it comes to thankfulness to be found through that monthly check that will receive a higher pension than it was in 2014. For the truth to be true and for the pensioners to really know what we're talking about today, and not for them to listen to some lies and fraud, PIO is funded in every country by the taxes and contributions of people who work. Since they closed 400,000 jobs by 2012, it is normal that they had no place to pay salaries and pensions, so they paid 48.2% of all Serbian citizens out of the budget to pay salaries and pensions. Well, when they came to over 200 credit lines opening, taking 8% a month's loans, borrowing rates, then they came up with the substance and the money from Serbia's budget at all, and they couldn't pay their pensions, and because of that economic collapse, it came to the world's financial organisations saying -- people, you're on the verge of collapse. He admitted that in the end, in December 2013, with the beginning of 2014 and that of Gilas. So what we should say today is that economic reforms have been implemented since 2014 thanks to the political influence of Aleksandr Vukic, which is based on the support of citizens who gave him in the elections that year. And the SNS really followed that political platform of change. These economic reforms were not easy at all, especially since the laws adopted here were meant to be implemented in practice and the professional public who gave their opinion on how to implement these reforms, meant the sacrifice of not only state officials to cut salaries, but rather a certain degree of pension cuts. When all is done, when all the costs are reduced in Serbia's budget, when all the basic funds that have been spent, such as cars, are reduced fees given on the basis of the diaries, when the diaries are reduced to 15 euros for employees who have their own business activities, when they have sold all the funds of the Serbian Government that were not in use and the rules are high costs, it was only then that some reforms have to be implemented when it comes to pension payments from the Fund. That's what showed that only 39% of pensioners, so 670,000 pensioners are reduced pensions above 25,000, compared to 10%. So, what did we get as a result of all this? Meanwhile, Serbia's financial system has been consolidated, the Republic of Serbia's budget has been rationalised in that part so that it can function in a sustainable manner. What does that mean? As much as you earn, you can spend as much. Every pension system, pension coordination and pension increase on that check for each pensioner is based on the country's economic situation. Pensions are a basic right that is unhurtful when it comes to giving by the state, but the pension level is precisely on the basis of every country's ability. The most developed European countries today are coordinating pensions based on prices for small and profit. Since certain circumstances of the economic crisis have occurred in the EU, profits have been reduced, so many countries have avoided a pension adjustment relative to earnings, as there would be no harmonisation. They tend to be in line with prices to a small and growth rate. Since 2008, the coordination of the extraordinary gentlemen who have now lectured us on how pensions should be paid, had a euro rate of 84 to 120 dinars, and pensions paid and adjusted according to coalition agreements and political desires to get votes in the elections. So they had harmonisations according to the law, this famous 80th member who said, in April of the month, compared to the prices to the small, which were much higher than the harmonisation was and we had in October the month compared to the growth that was more than 4%. That's the member we have a lot of criticism on today, because then they didn't even predict that the state could achieve a 4% growth. Then they gave an increase of 6.97% in 2008, so they gave 4.13% in October of the month, and an extraordinary increase in all this was another 10%. Of course, in that check at the dinar amount it seems a lot, but when you look at how the National Bank at the time applied to 10% inflation and to protecting the course from 84 to 120, essentially, they cheated on pensioners, because in the nominal amount and strength of those economic pensions, the pensioners got nothing more. So afterwards, the member of the 80th reached that pensioning from the budget, compared to GDP growth, is 13.4%, which brought down the total budget financing of all Serbian citizens. That's what we're talking about today. So, the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, has established a stable pension financing in the future. No, it comes to taking care of the future of our children and in a certain way borrowing credit lines to pay our pensions, but simply providing income on the basis of which we have stable funding. Today, the PIO Fund is given 28% of the budget to compensate for the amount of pensions to be paid to pensioners. Therefore, this relationship between 48% and 28% of the budget to pay off pensions and raise pensions in nominal amount shows exactly the result of economic reforms that the SNS together with the then prime minister, today's president of the state, has opened over 80 factories, more than 140,000 new jobs, precisely from which we can charge the PIO Fund to pay off pensions. What is most important is that as a state, we have taken seriously the financing of the PIO Fund by just putting into the budget system as one of the main obligations through Article 27e, that what is the relationship and monitoring of pension payments goes right through GDP growth. What's mandatory is that 11% of GDP can be a total pension payment. Now, what appears to be a big problem when it comes to public interpretation, like the Fiscal Council, when it comes to pensions? First, the assessment given by the Fiscal Council on this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, is primarily political, not economic. Why? Because there's a lot of contradiction in the analysis the Fiscal Council gave. First, in order to increase pensions based on this formula, the model, of that famous member of the 80th, shows that there would be a two-fold increase in pensions that would be much less nominal. Therefore, the rate of increase in pensions at all would go much less at the rate than what was given as a proposal in this law. I'll remind you only that in 2014, the Fiscal Council asked for pensions to be reduced by 15% and progressively, to be valid for all categories. So he wasn't going into the categories of the poorest, but nominally 15%, and that, in fact, would actually lead to a reduction in public debt. Public debt fell precisely because of good economic reforms, because we now have public debt below 60%, which is some standard for EU countries, and it will be below 50% next year, but the Fiscal Council has just written on page 3, paragraph 2 that coordination must be with 11% of GDP compared to Serbia's budget system and that it is a legal obligation. So what we're meeting right now with this increase is 11.1%. We are handling exactly what the Law on the Budgetary System is brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We cannot manage the formula above 4% of the growth, because what binds us, above all, the budget system, and we do not want to endanger Serbia's budget at all with excessive increases, but this increase that we are talking about is not the exclusive law of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather the compensation that shows that in the coming years of high economic growth in Serbia will be greater than the increase in that member's famous 80 per formula. So, the Fiscal Council, I think this is where he got himself into his own contradiction. Secondly, he put the wrong assumptions at all for the increase, because the payment of cash is not about the amount of pensions, this is from 0.3%, but it's about these benefits that go with the pension increase. Why am I saying that? Because when we had 2015, 2016 and 2017 under this regulation, i.e. under amendments and addition of laws on the reduction, reduction of pensions, at that time there were increases, alignments with what were the possibilities of Serbia's budget. We had a 1.25% increase, so we had 2.5%, I apologize 1.5% and 5% last year. But don't forget that the fees were paid for 5,000 dinars to all pensioners. This is what the Serbian government wanted to protect really the poorest, with the smallest pensions and to establish that balance somewhere when it comes to giving to all categories in society that receive certain types of pensions. What you have to say in the end, when it comes to pensions at all, is that payment must always be in line with the opportunities of the economy of a country. The one who tells you today, the pensioners, that he should return everything with interest, so I ask you, why didn't they return in 2000 with interest from the time of Ante Markovic, along with a 1,000-euro interest, when the euro and dinar ratio was one to seven? Because it's not real, because such a policy of unrealisticity can't simply produce results. We thank here the pensioners who have truly understood, and with their full responsibility, how it should be sacrificed for the state, for their children and for the future of Serbia, and put up with these austerity measures which now yield results and which have set Serbia's economy in a positive direction. I have to say that at this session, in addition to what pensions and salaries are and what Serbia's economic results are, we have a large number of agreements at today's session that just show that this state, this Serbian government has led one of the most responsible and external and internal policies. Because we have a set of agreements that are from trade, tourism, and agreements that talk about the agreement with Russia giving us the opportunity to simply sell gas, the distribution of gas, not only do we have to do between Russia and Serbia, but we can also do it with third countries, which is also the Energy Community, which, as one roof organisation in the field of energy, and in collaboration with the EU and the directives, has confirmed and allowed. So, it shows that Serbia is really facing both east and west with its foreign policy. But what we have as a topic today is the proposal for a decision on the election of the vice governor, who, on September 25th, stands out for the five-year term and the governor's proposals, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, are the magistrate Dragana Stanic for the four-year election and Dr. Ana Ivkovic for the three-year election. You've had a chance to see their biographies. By amending and supplementing the NBS Act, the governor proposes to the president of parliament his associates and as such are simply elected to the National Assembly of Serbia. What to say today, in the end, exhaust discussions, those who have left us much to fight by 2012, left one PKB with an annual debt of 10m euros, and then split bonuses that are also worth 12m to 15m euros a year, tells us how we had the opportunity to see those who led Serbia until 2012 and in the city and in the Republic, that they were always ready to draw state money and live on Serbian citizens. There's a big difference between them and us, and we'll probably never agree on that policy because those who are holding moral sermons here today have millions of assets and you can see it on the Anti-Corruption Agency's website and their property cards. This speaks of the difference between them and us, who thinks about the citizens of Serbia, who thinks about the future of their children and who is ultimately responsible for leading a country. In the voting day, the SNS will surely support such legislative proposals, as it also participated in the economic reforms of the state and participated in really helping pensioners to survive all the difficult years because of those who led us to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42994	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more registered presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are going to the discussion by applying for the word of the MPs. The word has the People's MP Ana Karacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42995	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, in their presentation, since I have little time, I will focus exclusively on the law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This topic is important for a large number of Serbian citizens, it has been current for years and today it is ahead of us, we are very pleased about it. We could only hear from the opposition negative side, what it is that we do bad, and no one said that the fact that we had to cut pensions was the only result of their relationship with the government till 2012. We also heard Mr. Martinovic, who mentioned the fact that 400,000 people were out of work with their robbery privatisations. However, it is necessary to return to the fine topics and say that unemployment is significantly reduced and that this law that is before us today allows pensioners to have more pensions than in 2014, by 9 to 13% higher than they have ever been. I would also like to stress my satisfaction that Mr. Mali is an important part of the team currently dealing with economic issues, because it is important that we continue this trend, that we do not deal with political or pensions or salaries, that we do not do this before the elections, but that this is a constant process which deals exclusively with economic policy and that will allow for further surpluses to continue in the budget, as was the previous three years. This will really give us the stability of pension payments we didn't have before 2012. This is very important, because when we talk about the constant increase in pensions, we talk about that they are increased exclusively on a healthy basis and when we say that pensions and salaries will further increase depending on economic developments and financial opportunities, we can look positively at that fact, because it means that even next year, if we continue with this kind of work, we can expect an increase in wages and pensions, as announced. Significant changes to this law are also when we talk about the benefits of a work internship, where it will be possible for those who have the largest retirement period in 12 years, or for 18 years, to be able to retire for that particular period, or six years earlier. It is also important to change when we talk about calculating pensions for the last year of work. Here we use personal coefficients of employees, and we will have significantly less cost of the Fund. In this way, a purely domestic attitude towards the state register continues. I stress that more than once, because those before us definitely didn't have it. I want us to keep doing what we've done, together, keep doing teamwork. Citizens are very pleased that this law is today ahead of us and that pensioners will finally get additional pension increases. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party of course will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42996	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42997	Thank you, Chairman. I'll just briefly look back on the PIO Act, and I'll be more concerned with changing the Higher Education Act. I would only like Minister Djordjevic to respond, if he can, to these changes concerning the acquisition of the right to aid for the blind. I see that instead of money, they will receive direct aids and it is said that a more detailed minister will prescribe it. Now, I know that there's a rule on medical technical aids provided by the means of compulsory health insurance, so will your regulation be compatible, will you change anything about that? If you could just give me a brief explanation. I don't hide, honestly, the sympathy I have for what Minister Sarcevic is doing at the ministry, for most things, of course, there's always room for criticism. I'm going to refer here to this member of the law where you're actually correcting a mistake, so, when it comes to, instead of getting high or high school education, and I'm wondering if that applies to the so-called. Bridge programs. Because somewhere I naively believed, in this article of the law where you say that practically not a student will be taken away from a diploma and be declared invalid if he won by conditions he didn't meet, I thought it would be related to this member and so on. Bridges programs, high education programs that serve to bridge when someone is employed and has no diploma, so let a shortened version, even in some countries and for students from sensitive social groups. Also, this part where you talk about managers, you took off the responsibility of the higher school institution to regulate it with a general act and you say that it will be settled in accordance with the law, but the law still doesn't say what the powers of the manager are and what their rights and obligations are. What law will it be regulated by? If you can make an explanation about that, too. Finally, of course, what has been more intriguing in the law for years has been amendments relating to students who have enrolled higher education institutions before 2005. Somehow, and when someone wants to do something good in any resistor, they keep pulling some shit out of the past and they can't get rid of it to move forward. I really believe that this is a solution, a permanent solution, and somewhere it shows us that the whole public sector that is funded by citizens and states is related to its users. You know, when you pay for a private service, you expect a certain quality. If I go to foreign language school and I don't pass the test I was preparing for, someone won't tell me – you're stupid, go home, they'll call me a million times, try to offer me extra lessons, some benefits, etc. We have a situation here that we have students who have stringed nines and tens during their studies and that one moment of their life they were forced to pause studies, whether it's the death of a neighbor, whether it's a disease, whether it's marriage, the birth of a child, whatever. For me, it is really, as someone who believes that without quality education there is no progress of society or individual, it is incomprehensible that it is possible that there is no living person in that higher education institution to invite this student and see why he broke up with the studies, whether there should be any additional support for these studies to be completed. With one amendment, I suggested it, and now I'm going to try to explain what I suggested. Please take a look at that, because I don't think I'll be participating in the amendment debate later. I really can't sit here and listen to the recitations of written, fictional and pointless amendments, from my point of view, of course, I'm building myself up. This amendment, in fact, I propose that higher education institutions commit themselves to contact a student in a certain period of time, written, telephoned, orally, to create an individual study completion plan, which will also be obliged to respect both a student and a higher education institution and to see if there is any additional support needed, perhaps a brief lecture from a specific subject that is complicated and who does not meet those conditions eventually loses student status. Also, if you don't get in touch with a student, which I don't believe is likely, it also ceases student status, in accordance with the law. I think that's really doable. There are students who have left their studies, they won't write, they're formally held as students because they have to pay for it. There are students who have moved, who work, who have no intention of coming back. I really think it would be nice to end this story once and for all. Thank you. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42998	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u42999	Thank you for your suggestions. I'm going to pass this along anyway, take a look at your proposal, because it's in preparation and the law on student organisation. So, the group works a lot. I think that law will be here in parliament in November. I think that's where it's supposed to stand. One of the European Commission's remarks on quality was that students are slightly visible with us and that they are asking a little questions. This is something that's really sold out for class and a lot of other people aren't doing, and they should. We fight for that information often. Of course, I won't generalize. There's someone who does it better, who does it worse. The matter of the manager is not a matter of copying from either Hungarian or anyone. You've got someone who's already dealing with finance at every university, but in law, you've got a high chance of those colleges and higher education institutions starting all the companies, since some of them are doing it. So, the role of manager is that it will be regulated by the Higher Education Fund Act, which is somewhere in February 2019. We work intensively with the university. It was almost a consultation about 210 years of Belgrade University on the subject. We're really intense and teams, there was a meeting today of one of the teams for it. So we're going to put the story on our feet and define that person's role. So he's not a state money controller, which at first sight seems to everyone. He's what he needs, because you have a chance to do a lot of things through the internationalization process. What would the ministry do with catalogs? To be present at the fair. In China, we now have calls to send two teams, even on their expenses in Venjo and Shanghai, where we get a ten-time stand bigger than any other country. So now we have to chase to organize it, to collect promo materials, etc. I think there's a lot of other roles in the movement of money and about help, above all the university. Our intention is for new education strategies to certainly be a student at the centre of attention and thus to enable them to study cheaper and easier. I agree with you who is more efficient, smarter, to him as much as possible, but you've mostly responded to what I would say, so we'll appreciate this in the next search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43000	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43001	Dear People's MPs, you're right, we certainly recognize that something needs to be changed, especially when it comes to blind, undersighted and pensioners, when it comes to children, the users of blind children who use these pensions. We have seen that the way they have been given help in the past has already been overcome and that is to comply with some new norms and with the Health Protection Act. We certainly also look in agreement with them to make this procedure both legal and simple for them, so that the aids are quickly obtained and to be the most qualitative aids. This particular member of the law went that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43002	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here's your colleague, Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43003	Thank you, esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say a few words about the set of laws discussed today by the Assembly. My colleague and chairman of the SPS parliamentary group at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Djordje Milicevic, spoke on Friday about most of the laws under the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in particular the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and presented those main features of the amendments and addition of the Law and its essence, which is helping pensioners and those who will be in the future. A colleague, Milicevic, made it clear that the measures taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, gave results, gave the basis for amending and supplementing the law. In the past few years, there has been a significant improvement in the financial situation in the Republic of Serbia, a reduction in public debt in GDP and a reduction in the budget deficit. We've had a budget surplus for the third year in a row. Foreign investments amounted to 1.4 billion euros in the first six months in the Republic of Serbia. The unemployment rate has dropped below 12%. It should be recalled that in 2013, it was 25.9%, the rate of growth was 4.9 and positive movements made it possible to pass such a law. There is no doubt that the economic situation of the coming years will be wherever and where better, it is guaranteed that not only the reform measures the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken, but I dare say part of what happened last week. Namely, President Vukic's trip to the People's Republic of China, contracts signed at the time, their value of about three billion euros, jobs expected in Serbia, primarily taking over the Bora, thus making a huge commitment to RTB "Bor", and thus one major commitment to the state, but also the opening of a new factory in Zrenjanin with the capacity to create several thousand jobs and the fact that this factory will be a significant car supplier in Europe and all other measures that are being done with the People's Republic of China. I mention only this aspect is undoubtedly an indication that the economic situation will be better where and where it is better, which gives and real, absolutely the basis for the solutions contained in this law and its application, so it is therefore logical that our parliamentary group will also support this law. Now I'd like to say a few words about amendments to the Higher Education Act. In fact, I think that the ministry and the ministry have been very wise to solve a problem that has been going on for a very long time, and in addition to this law there have been several things that help students and improve the work of higher education institutions. Namely, if I may say part of the burden carried by every minister of education when he takes over the work he's doing is to solve the problems of the past. This solution, which gives students who have enrolled under the old law in 2005, to say the opportunity to complete their studies for another year is good for them. The answer to another question asked by my dear colleague earlier is difficult to resolve until colleges themselves start caring about every dinar that should land on their account. It's not hard to determine within each of the colleges whether there are any of these students, how many of them there are and, of course, someone to turn these people around if they're already not in a position to contact the colleges, and it would be logical to do that, but if I said hypothetically and it is an obstacle, it's quite logical that those colleges that need money, and there are many, would be logical to do that. I know when a personal map was made, a financial college, let's say for example, a Belgrade university, of 31 colleges, only eight or nine years ago was the number of colleges that had a stable, if I may say so, financial situation and additional income based on projects they did with an economy or the number of students they enrolled and to say through that number were provided by self-financed students. I know that with a large number of other students there was a problem with funding, that there was no Ministry of Education and that it wasn't Mr. Sarčević and the team that did it, I am absolutely convinced that many of the colleges would not be in a position to effectively implement the goals for which they were founded, but it does not release them from the obligation to seek reservations themselves. I think these solutions that the law provides for and implements study programs in foreign languages and this possibility is something that will help colleges. In addition to the extension of the deadline for completion of studies enrolled according to professions which were valid until 10 September, which is limited to 2019, 2018/2019. and 2019/20 respectively. A year due to integrated programs at medical school. Secondly, a great right and to say a good solution that determines the law is the right for students who, in the last year of their studies, have the status of a budgetary student to retain the right to finance for the longest year of their regular duration. Both will increase the number of higher educations, and it is quite logical that each country's primary goal is to have a large number of highly educated people because they will help develop Serbia. One of the measures provided for in this law concerns the internal organisation of higher education institutions, a secret vote is being introduced. It is quite logical both the rector and the dean, if it is about universities and higher education institutions, i.e. the president of the Academy of Professional Studies or the director of the higher school of vocational studies, it is quite logical to choose in this way. I have to tell you that most of them did, but where there was no such solution, it's good that the Ministry predicts the measure to be, to say, a commitment. There is one more thing I would like to commend, which no one unfortunately mentioned, which is this obligation to introduce employers' advice in colleges. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you should know that this measure should not remain just a declarative character, it should connect higher education institutions with the economy because it is something that is lacking in the higher education of the Republic of Serbia and now with these economic parameters and trends positive that we have had in the past few years, with this measure, it would be quite logical that the link between higher education and economy is stronger and that it is shown in one way, projects in common, innovations in areas of economy, and additional sources of funding for higher education institutions. There is another element that is not mentioned, which is on numerous lists of ranking higher education institutions, business co-operation is taken as a very important criterion of the value of a higher education institution and it has been a handicap for many countries in transition and I think this solution is a great solution because it allows higher education institutions to connect to the economy. A good solution is also to determine the conditions and methods of selecting a Serbian language lecturer in higher education institutions abroad. In the light of this law, it is said what an existing situation is. It's good for the Ministry to take over this part of the job, because it's still somewhere or at the Serbian language lecturer's university, and then they've equipped the lecturers either left it, to be honest, different parts of the funding. In this way, the state is concerned about the fate of the Serbian language abroad, this way the state is concerned about the affirmation of Serbian society and the acquisition of reputation among developed countries. In this way, the state takes over this important job and I have to say that I am very pleased, only logically I would like in 2019, 2020, and in 2021 there to be a greater number of lecturers to be chosen, but this depends not only on our goodwill but also on the interest, that is, the way in which we affirm higher education in the world. Speaking of affirmation of higher education in the world, I welcome the proposal that the Belgrade University be declared an institution of national importance and if this provision is of a declarative character. The Belgrade University certainly deserves one of these qualifications, and I don't think any high-school counterparts from the Republic of Serbia will ask why. It's about a University that's been going on for 210 years, which has over 100,000 students, 31 colleges, 11 institutes that some of them have already received, let's say, marked as institutes of national importance. What has been mentioned in recent years is the fact that Belgrade University has been the most important university in the region for several years, but not only that, but that Belgrade University is a queen from which all or almost all universities in the Republic of Serbia, including Yugoslavia, and also in the region, and possession of the fact that the ranking of Belgrade University within, for example, the Shanghai List is extremely important for the higher education of the Republic of Serbia and if conditions are extremely difficult. It's kind of being left aside by conditions, of course fortunately now and Novi Sad and other universities are moving quickly towards the Shanghai List, among the first thousand, but it should not be forgotten that it's a list of 22 thousand universities in the world. When you have a university between 250 and 400 seats, depending on the year and the cycle of research, that is, how you publish works and other criteria, then there is really reason to declare the Belgrade University an institution of national importance. I'd like to say that I think that an important part of this law is also related to the external quality check of higher education institutions and that somehow the regulation of amending the law has remained aside. I think it is important that, in addition to the regular accreditation cycle, the quality of the higher education institution can be determined at the request of the Ministry and the National Council. In this way, the higher education institution is kept at a constant stage of reviewing its quality and meeting the necessary criteria. You don't leave empty space for four years, so let's wait until the next cycle. In the end, as long as there is any kind of doubt or demand to verify the quality of a higher education institution, the provisions of this law can be regulated. In the end, an important detail relating to changes and additions to the law on higher education, and this provision is related to the degrees of doctoral studies. In fact, there is little left, again I say, not to mention what it says in the light of this law, which is that the Ministry, unfortunately, but it is part of the higher education system that we have had the situation for individual higher education institutions and private and state-run accreditation processes to be passed, and some programs, after we saw, were not satisfactory quality, and then diplomas were acquired at these institutions and then it was raised as an open question. I think it's a good solution for the Ministry to finally put an end to it, but it should not be forgotten that what it says in the light of this law is that it's about those higher education institutions that have been authorised for certain programs. That kind of puts it aside. In the end, I think I've said a lot about the Law on Higher Education, Amendments and Supplements. I would only like to mention this law, or social security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. There are few countries in the world like Serbia, we are also unique, and we love that we are always special, who can qualify for having such good relations with the People's Republic of China. Having interstate relations with a comprehensive strategic partnership, being a co-worker of China in the Balkans and Southeast Europe, concluding such a large number of contracts, starting such a large number of projects not only in the area of infrastructure, developing co-operation in such a wide field of action, including education and science, signing these contracts that were in the People's Republic of China ten days ago is a big deal. I must say that this great role is played by President Vukic, because in China it is simply known that these personal relations between leading people define and interstate relations. Each of the world's statesmen who have good relations with President Si Jinping is a good basis and a guarantee that interstate relations will be good, and there's nothing at my level of this Parliament, I must mention, we have great co-operation with colleagues from the Chinese National Congress. We have the highest level of co-operation of two parliaments. Our president visited his colleague last year outside the Chinese Congress, as they were. During one year, it rarely happens in the world that the two presidents of parliament visit another country. We also have a co-operation committee. It is a rare form of co-operation and we MPs have committed ourselves and members of the group of friendships with China, who also had the pleasure of being guests of the People's Republic of China, have pledged to support any law that promotes co-operation between the People's Republic of China and Serbia. One of those laws is this Social Security Act. Of course, we members of the SPS, or MPs, will vote in favour of both this and all other laws that are subject to discussion of this session and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43004	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43005	I won't be long. First of all, to thank my colleague Obradovic, as well as the board member, and at all on the board, there was some similar discussion and atmosphere that now and because of this opportunity, I hope, the last thing we found was that this was still necessary for the group to finish the job. I think we should look at this extension in that light. Again, not too long for any pedagogical goals to be extended and unfulfilled. I think it was almost uniform on the board, but what you've been commenting on and commenting on is the intention that the Employers' Council not formally as it was laid down in the law, but in a commitment forms because it is very important and the employers' opinions on the work of the finished students who are coming. So, in quality indicators, it will certainly be very important to think about it, so even art must have some wire and those employers, because they end up selling their goods through some kind of artistic and other display. When it comes to lecturers, it is very important that we renew between state contracts with all countries like Serbia, it is very important. He has the SCG, the SRJ, even the FNRJ and you have no right to seek some continuity and reciprocity, which gives us the cheapest story, but wherever we think we need to maintain a Serbian language and strengthen co-operation with those countries, we are, in particular, giving priority to the renewal of the contract. Here, with Greece, we have now achieved this reciprocity to introduce that we do not have to budget it, but in any case it is not such money, our interest is certainly to prevent, preserve and the traditions and culture of the Serbian language. So, at all the other universities, it's very important. What you have also said, ranking institutions is a particular philosophy that deals with the Council for Higher and National Accreditation Body and the specific advice that we have set up to improve these measures at all and establish all indicators that are very important to go forward and that we might consider high education to be one of the resources that may be for the state of Serbia at this point and strongest, but we need to prove that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43006	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43007	Thank you. Like many other things, the decision made four years ago on the withdrawal of pensions is unconstitutional and illegal, as is this bill of law that is being passed today, because it is based on lies. And it's a policy of lies that lasts for a very long time, and it's causing great damage to this country. The abolition or reduction of pensions was brought as an explanation because Serbia was reportedly ahead of bankruptcy at the time. I think the Serbian public knows that I wasn't a favorite of the government back then, and before 2012, I didn't say anything good about it, but then Serbia certainly wasn't in front of bankruptcy. She went bankrupt twice, for the first time in 1993, and the second time in 1999, with the complicity of most who are now sitting in the benches of power and those who are now hiding behind the alleged opposition. And it's a fake. 700,000 pensioners have been damaged, estimated from half a billion to billions, how much money they've lost, and that should be paid back. I don't believe it's possible at a tight interest rate, but it's certain that the future, normal, healthy government will find a way to deprive pensioners, as it did after 24 September 2000 and 5 October 2000. I congratulate the citizens of Serbia, those who voted and those who later helped save this vote, 18 years from the age of a good idea. What's wrong? It's a good thing that pension cuts are lifted but it's not good that it continues to change laws that allow pensioners like all other Serbian citizens to put into the mercy of the government that we have for the last six years, the government that is practically one man's policy, and I said, the whole policy is based on pure lies. According to the Fiscal Council, we have two or three major problems in this law. Of course, I don't have time to talk about other laws that have been laid out in a joint debate, and that simply, and if I had time, wouldn't be polite. Article 9, according to the Fiscal Council, that the change de facto abolishs the pension harmonisation formula and gives the government the discretionary right to decide on pension harmonisation. This means that the government will use its discretionary right to play ahead of the elections, about the election, about the difficult situation, about signing and giving Kosovo war criminals on the other side, so whenever something needs to be done, there will be some small increase or a slight reduction in pension, depending on which lie can best be packed and sold to Serbian citizens at that time. By abolishing the formula, the Fiscal Council says, Serbia would leave good European practice and degrade its system to the level of the most unstable pension systems in the countries of North Africa and the Middle East. And I absolutely support all the views of the Fiscal Council that have been made regarding this law. It is, as I recall, still the state of Serbia's body and it would be good if the Serbian government and MPs were more careful when they read what the Fiscal Council wrote to them. The second point is Article 37, which further defines this ominous right to the Serbian government, or to the authorities in this country, and knows where this power comes from, that, in view of their current political and demagogue needs, they are abolishing, reducing, increasing pensions, paying dynamics, etc., etc. I think it's something to prevent and the parliamentary group I belong to has given amendments that are related to the subject. There is one more thing, and that is that in Article 41, the ministers responsible for defence and home affairs, as well as the head of BIA, are given a period of 18 months, I repeat – 18 months, to coordinate the sublegal act relating to the benefits of a work experience. Of course there's supposed to be a job internship, of course there should be precise documents that can achieve that way of calculating pensions, but, 18 months, for God's sake! I am sure that the promoter, present Minister Djordjevic, said that he was confident of the incompetence of the defence minister, the interior minister and the BIA chief that anything could be done in a short time. Our amendment cuts that time to six months, although I think it's too long a period, but it really makes a little more sense than that 18 months. You can tell anyone in the BIA who needs to be recognized as an underprivileged intern, in 18 months, you can replace each of them in the kitchen and bathroom, let alone bring your opinion on the subject. What do you want to do next? What is necessary is that this state, and above all its citizens, repeats wisdom, strength, determination and courage that they showed 18 years ago and puts an end to the politics of lies. And to tell you what the signals are, it's drying your mouth, in Wikipedia, as a result of fear, it makes one who lies to wet his lips more often than it's normal or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43008	You're out of time, Mr. Zivkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107 has been injured, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly, because a man who, through unfortunate circumstances, became Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, and before that, and perhaps after that, smuggled pumpkins from Bulgaria, has today spoken words that do not appeal to this parliament. He said that we in the SNS and the ministers in the Serbian government were lying, that we were thieves, and then he said that we had abolished our pensions, so he got better, he got a little bit better, so he said we'd kidnapped them. All in all, the man who was the authority of October 5th, one of the people who caused the biggest disaster and economic and political damage to the state of Serbia, behold, has the courage to today say the most insecure insults in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to congratulate all those who voted, among other things, on 24 September 2000. He says they won on September 24th. They may have won, but no one can tell you that reliably, because I don't know if there's a country in the world where the election winner burns down the entire election material of the electoral commission that's supposed to declare his victory. If you're telling me there's a country in the world where one coalition, as he claims, won the election convincingly, and then after about 10 days it comes in... (Marco Djurisic: Time.) Your time has passed, Mr. Djurishic, a long time ago, and will never return.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43010	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43011	Well, after 10 days of breaking into the Federal Assembly and burning the entire election material of the Federal Election Commission, then I ask the question – what kind of victory is there behind which there is no written clue? (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43012	Mr. Zivkovic, you have no right to reply since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic: This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure? It is. Mr. Martinovic, do you want the Parliament to plead in the voting day? (No) The word has Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43013	I'm sorry, Mr. Zivkovic, that yesterday you weren't there to hear my answer, excuse me, on Friday, when it was a session, to hear my answer to the Fiscal Council and all that. I'm surprised you're okay with it now, which means you didn't get into it. (Zoran Zivkovic: I heard your answer. Is it? Well, then I'm surprised by your ignorance, since you say you're an economist. Then you should read it more carefully and realize how many lies are being told and that basically none of what the Fiscal Council said is true. When you already listed who was paying back the pensions, then you could have something that was returned in the lawsuits, then you could have said about this government, to commend it, because it returned exactly what the DS stole from the pensioners in 2008, which is the alignment of 11-06 for military pensioners, and that's the damage to the state of hundreds of millions of euros, which is exactly what this government has returned. I suppose your praise goes to this government that returns what you illegally did in 2008, but I'll understand that you probably forgot to say. When it comes to harmonisation, the government does not give itself the right, but the Budget and Budgetary System Act defines how and how pensions will be increased. What I can promise you is that we will not coordinate, as you did when inflation was 10%, 15%, and you matched 0.4% or 1%. We, as much as it pains you, are going to adjust 5% to inflation and pensions, when it comes to us, are going to grow, not fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43014	The word has the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43015	First of all, Mr. Minister, it's Monday, so we didn't work yesterday. Secondly, I listened to what you said as a financier on Friday about the Fiscal Council's opinion, and believe me as an economist and you as a financialist should listen to what the Fiscal Council says. They're absolutely right here. I don't remember talking about getting my pension back at all in these six minutes and 10 seconds. I didn't say a word about it. Of course they should be returned, I said, and those you kidnapped, as some have been returned before, but just to remind you of the general cultures, you can also find them on Wikipedia, I have nothing to do with politics in this country in 2008, 2009, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2010, 2011, 2011. I don't even remember voting back then, let alone any responsible function. So I said what I thought about some who were before that in that place. Finally, praise is obtained by recording you history as someone worthy of the works of a page or a few pages in the history of a country. Those who cook themselves in history, those who for the first time in history, the greatest in history, were small and will remain small no matter where they change their party colors and no matter who they support. So, I'm asking you not to do it for me, I'm seven years old, if I remember how old I am, and I remember well, if you don't change something in the meantime. Of course, as a cautious man, who's had that opportunity as a privateer since 1986, I hope I don't depend on retirement, but that doesn't mean as a folk MP and as a long-term politician, I don't have the obligation to think daily about what's going to happen to people who have to rely on the state in terms of pensions and what you're doing today is not good, but there's gonna be a new 24th of September and there's going to be some normal government that's going to fix your mistakes again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43016	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43017	Article 107, Mr. Chairman. Because of the need to tell the truth here, and, of course, all that's true, this insolent address to the minister in words that he's taken something or that we've taken something, and maybe because of these threats that we've heard in the end, which are shaking us so much that we simply don't know what we're going to do with ourselves. Of course, it is known that some of the only ways they see for their own coming to power are some coups, some revolutions, some military juntas, all the most beautiful things, the most democratic things in the world they've been threatening for months, and in recent days they've been so intense, since now they're the most confident in the strong support they have by the citizens, right? The question of kidnapping and responsibility of those who now say they have nothing to do with what was going on wrong and wrong in 2009, 2010, 2011. How can it have nothing to do with this robbery, the de facto mugging of the people, the one who took part in the establishment of these structures that destroyed the pension fund, to establish structures that brought the state to the brink of bankruptcy, and what Dragan Gilas himself claimed to be who today, are you recommending? And the Fiscal Council, which today is said to be very trusted, but seems to be in everything that could fit these smart people and people with a lot of support, but is not believed in this Fiscal Council that said that this country was in an unsustainable situation in 2008, until 2012, because it doesn't suit them. Do they have anything to do with those robbers who did it? Nothing. Of course, only those robbers got subsidies. Does this mean that they have nothing to do and that they are pure before God and before the people? I don't think that means it, because I don't think we should let people like that say these things here. At the very end, when they compare their country with the countries of Africa and Asia and try to humiliate some countries there, let them be aware of the peoples that are friendly to us. When they try to ignore that such solutions as we propose exist in European countries, they are nothing, but because they speak here who is how small. Those whose political essence was their own pocket and their own subsidy were small and will remain small as loud as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43018	Do you want a colleague of Orlic to make a statement in the day of voting about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43019	You know how, Mr. Zivkovic, the fiscal council is just denying time and waiting for time to pass. I am surprised that a member of the Fiscal Council, who is also a pensioner and a member of the Fiscal Council, allows himself such things and has the morality to receive both pension and compensation. Okay, well, that's more like that fiscal council member. I'm surprised who you quote without first reading the letter of the law, but the apriors stick to it and stick to the Fiscal Council as if it were the Holy Scriptures. As one MP here says, you only stick to it when it suits you. When you spoke yesterday, I worked yesterday. I know you weren't working. I was working yesterday, which is why I probably disturbed my mind that it was Sunday yesterday. I don't read Wikipedia, and when you compare the economist and the financialist, I would advise you to read the dictionary "Mother of Serbs". This is all I want for you and take the law once again and you will understand how many good things have been done in the law, that the law was first put before the MPs and that there is no negative consequence for anyone, that it is the first time that a draft of the law, amendment and addition of the Law of the PIO Fund, has such a characteristic. I know it hurts you, and as I told you, we're going to increase pensions, we're going to give pensioners as much as it hurts, and it probably hurts as soon as you have a conditional response to all that. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43020	You have no right to a replica, colleague Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43021	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is a saying that wisdom comes with age. My fellow farmer seems to be only going for years. If, on a bad note, tax and excise charges were to be charged to the pension fund, to the PIO, I don't think the pensioners would have any problem and that we could automatically increase their pensions five times. So much for him. I support these laws, but I must tell you that in the future, in my opinion, we must reduce the range between the largest and the smallest pensions. That's the problem with the old system. That's the problem we inherited. We gave up that, like this one he was saying, pensions are paid out of fraud, sales of capital and credit. We won't increase pensions by 14.3%, and then let by three years inflation by 40%, that what they got on the road pensioners at the joint lose three times as much. If we let go of an inflation of 10%, like they did, the pensioners would be in a fat minus, or we could increase their pension, maybe something more, and then we could play with them. They deserve a dignified age. The biggest problem is with agricultural pensions, and we need to deal with it systematically. In order to reduce that range between, one to the 13 will be now, I suggest that in the change of system everything that has been paid into the PIO fund is distributed in proportion to pensioners, and that part that is paid into the budget, which is almost 30%, in their time 50%, that part that all citizens fill out from the budget is divided evenly into all pensioners in that supplement. So the range between the largest and the smallest pensions would be reduced and the smallest and biggest pensions would be approached because all our people deserve a decent age and some individuals have far more, 13 times more than farmers have, and that's a bad message for young people in the country. My colleague, the farmer, in one activity, one year 550,000 euros, i.e. 2,600 agricultural pensions, and it is a shame that here he, who will have when retired, as he said, seven times to eight times the pension of these farmers, is a real shame, not only that money is nicked, about 2,600 pensions, but that he is proud of here. The quality of my fellow farmer, Z.Z. The best talk is a bunch of bottles in front of a bar near the National Assembly. He is who he is, but living proof is that he's not exactly um, he's not up to being taken into the alliance of thieves and frauds and Latvians led by a red-haired pirate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43022	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43023	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the council, here we are today talking about proposals for a law on the 33rd item of the agenda, so the trend of adopting the law without debate continues, and we should not be surprised that these laws have disastrous consequences, and like this one that recently came into force, related to the support of maternity families, so now we are all rebelling why it is, starting with the minister. As far as the key law at today's session on the agenda of the PIO Act, unfortunately, dear pensioners, this is bad news for you. It's bad news because this law will in the future and how it will create problems for regular pension reconciliation and will allow politicians to have their fates in your hands, not as it has been the case so far, that it works through a system that existed, and it was a pension system, like that, but it existed. You are today breaking this system that existed and giving politicians the power to decide from the fate of the pensioners, or the height of their pensions that they will receive. The other thing, which is also problematic, is that this law does not predict that they will be returned to the pensioners in the previous four years against the constitution, and you will have to ask for it for a court, and unfortunately some government will have to return it one day, and let's say for the case of a pensioner who received 35,000.00 dinars of pension, for these four years, it has been taken away from the pensioners by 101.200,00 dinars, if we subtract those 5,000 you gave for the Christmas pig, it comes to 96.200,00 dinar, a total of around 800 million euros has been taken away from pensioners and there is no announcement that it will return. Here we hear about the golden age of the finance minister, about GDP growth, they just forgot to say one thing, which is that it wasn't the law on temporary pension cuts so that pensioners today had more pensions of 9.2%, than they had in 2014, because it would be a alignment with the rate of inflation, as this formula also prescribed. So these fairy tales that will have pensions bigger than ever today and that everyone will be better than you have come to power, the people feel the best. I invite you to come down a little among the people, after you have alienated yourself from them and have seen how they live today. As you took the pensioners, so you take the farmers and all the other categories of citizens to fill the state register. When it comes to future stability and pension payments, I want to tell you one more thing. So, when you give the PKK, when you donate state agricultural land, when you donate RTB Bor, when you base your economy on cable braiders, as the weakest category paid in one economy, the economy, of course, and how will there be problems for you to pay your pensions in the next period. For the following year, if this formula, which you are repealing this law, you would not be able to reconcile your pensions and increase as much as necessary, along with the growth of the GDP that you are boasting. Also, another thing that will prove that everything you've been doing these years is one big lie, is that today in Serbia, the relationship between pensioners and employees is one at barely 1.5. So you have one pensioner on 1.5 employees. It says that all your stories and fairy tales about reducing the unemployment rate fall into the water. Once again, you're showing yourself to be lying. I guess if the unemployment rate were to be reduced, employees should be increased, and this pension and workers relationship that should be better for them by their contributions. When you talk about the future predictability of paying off pensions, I'll tell you that one of the great successes of this government in these six years and that you've raised public debt by 10 billion. From 14, to 24 billion. If at 14 billion, as you say in 2012, we were on the verge of bankruptcy, we probably went bankrupt today. So, there are some things that don't fit in with each other. As for GDP growth, I won't even talk about it, because your average growth in the last five years, your rule, your five calendar years, is barely over 1%. What is essential is that you told the pensioners that they are responsible for fiscal consolidation, that those who saved Serbia from bankruptcy, I will tell them that for these 800m euros, which you took from them against the constitution, unfortunately, no reforms have been made, no fiscal consolidation, because these funds have gone to projects such as "Er Serbia", 200m euros in subsidies, management, headed by Kamaras in "Gelezara", 145m euros, Belgrade leads hundreds of millions of euros, not knowing exactly how much money, masts, fountains, gondolas, and now we hear from the president of the state and the announcement of flying cars. So it's taken from the citizens to waste money. What I am about to finish is what the SNS promised before it came to power and wrote even in a "white book" where it said that the state would guarantee pension payments, they must be realistic and consistent with salaries and price increases. So none of this has happened, except lies that you constantly and every day deceive all citizens of Serbia, including pensioners themselves. So, dear pensioners, I'm sorry, but this law is very bad news and you're entering a large period of ignorance as well as the entire state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43024	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here comes another exhibit by Dragan Gilas, this time it's the cover of Vuk Jeremic. Just to remind the citizens of Serbia, because there's always talk here about how SNS kidnapped someone and dragged their hand into their pocket. Vuk Jeremic spent 3.7m euros of state money on his official travel abroad, on planes, on expensive hotels, on expensive wines, on various types of services abroad, and during that time he took an equal of 50,000 diaries for official travel abroad. And then one of Gilas's exhibits, the exhibits of Vuk Jeremic, the political exhibits in which Serbia has experienced its economic collapse and honors us for stealing something from someone. The elections were, I want to remind this new DOS, the elections were in 2014, the elections were in 2016, the elections were in 2017 and the people said so. Well, after all, they said their own pensioners. They didn't say that the SNS had dragged their hand into their pocket, they understood what you understood well, but you won't say that it was a necessary measure, that in economic and financial terms we would heal our country and thanks to it, among other things, we are in a situation today that we can abolish this law on temporary pension payment because we have a second year in a row of surpluses in the budget. In your day, we had an empty hole that couldn't possibly be filled.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43026	Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. You have no right to the replica of your colleague Alexic. (Miroslav Aleksic: Why am I not right? You have no right. You can't talk privately. You have no right to a replica and don't interfere with my work. [[(Miroslav Aleksic: Not private. I'm entitled to a replica.]] Excuse me, did the minister offend you when he said the amount was... (Marco Djurisic: He misread it. Don't do that, don't interrupt, don't win. Don't get it, I read the Rules of Procedure and I know it well, and you know it just pretend you don't know it. I don't understand what's offensive to you, fellow Alexic, if the minister says the missing funds for the Pension Fund are smaller today in 2018 than they were in 2009? It's just data. The data can't be offensive, that's a fact. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43027	Thank you very much. I would use this short time only for Members of Parliament who have not dealt with the economy before, although they seem to have graduated from economic college, to point out some things and some basic knowledge that is very important to know when you want to comment on things from the economy. So, the rate of growth in the Serbian economy for the first eight months is 4.9% compared to last year and has nothing to do with pension levels and pension payments. Pensions are paid out of the budget. To correct myself, there are indirect links if you had more pensions, that would make the demand bigger, and the assumption is that the growth rate would be higher, but there is no direct, given that pensions are paid out of the budget, and in this respect, the results of this government's work are great, given that for the first eight months of this year we have 41.1 billion dinars of surpluses in the budget. It has never happened, and it is the third year in a row, and that is why we are going with a law that is before you Members of Parliament, which includes the payment of pensions and growing and larger pensions in the years to come. The participation of public debt in the GDP of the Republic of Serbia and the huge increase and debt of our country have been primarily due to irresponsible and catastrophic economic policy since 2008. And this unwarranted increase in pensions in 2008 was one of the reasons why public debt participation in GDP rose from 28.3 2008 to 32.8, then 41.8, then to 45.4, then in 2012 the part defined by law, which is 50% of the public debt in GDP, to 45.4, to 56 2012, then to 59 2013. So, this is one public debt trajectory that we have worked very hard to stop in 2015. Simply, the citizens of Serbia must know, when you go into such a negative trend, it takes time for this trend to stop from 2015 and already 2014 with a responsible policy, with a fiscal consolidation programme, we come to the conclusion that by the end of this year we have again a public debt, i.e. the participation of public debt in GDP at about 50% of our GDP, and since 1 January, with a budget projection for 2019, we go below 50%. These are great results that show how responsible and wise policies have been implemented by the then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, now President of the Republic of Serbia, where you have the opportunity to have a high growth rate at the moment, where you have a surplus in the budget, where you have an unemployment rate that fell below 11%, or below 12%, exactly 11.9%, where you have never more foreign investment in our country 14th and 400m euros, respectively, 15.6% more than last year. When you look at such an economy, it's an economy that is on a stable basis, a ship that is firmly and safely going in the right direction, and on that basis we're talking about just increasing wages in the public sector, we're talking about increasing pensions in the next period, so, based on what we've earned, what we've saved, and not on the basis of the loan, and not talking about it, since 2008, this might be another time I'm going to report, how expensive the loans have been to cover these irresponsible decisions by the previous authorities about increasing pensions and all other things, these were interest rates over 10%. We now, Members of Parliament, have interest rates on loans that we are in debt only for investments and for capital projects, 2.5 to 3% on an annual basis. Compare that with 10, 12 and more percent, how much interest was just ten or seven or eight years ago. This is a huge difference, on the one hand, the confidence of investors, the trust of the banking sector in the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, the result of our activities and our efforts to have a stable financial picture of our country, so that we can have the credit rating as well as, of course, the possibility of increasing pensions and increasing wages. That is why Serbian citizens should not worry, we do not deal with politics in such a way as to buy votes through the responsibility and borrowing of our country. We want to leave our children a safe, stable future, which is why we deal with economic policy in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43028	Mr. Aleksic, if your level of knowledge of economy and public finances, you'd know you have no right to a replica. And your ignorance doesn't allow me to give you that right after all. Nothing was offensive in the discussion of either minister or minister in order to exercise the right to replication. Here's a colleague of Stojmirovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43029	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is evident that today we are attending a debate that shows positive results in light of Serbian citizens, and that the law, which affects pensioners, as well as these changes in the Law on Education. I am particularly pleased to say today that we on the board had an almost unique position to accept all the changes that are now in this law regarding education. (Alexandra Jerkov: Well, it's not like that. I said almost a unique colleague. Now, was it possible to solve this another way? Everyone's got a model of their own, and everyone's gonna try to tell us it could've been one way or the other. This was inherited from a period back 18 years, and it's hard to determine now some model where everyone will be satisfied. Maybe my colleague Seselj was right when he said that students shouldn't be limited, that they should be allowed to study as long as they wanted. Maybe the ones who say this should be the last time that it extends to students a deadline to finish their studies are right. But I think it is the obligation of the ministry and all of us to go out to meet these people and the ministry and a great deal of Parliament is trying to get these people to meet, and I think there will be a solution for both the Bolons and all the groups of students who have been eager to pass this law. In this regard, I propose to all colleagues that we support this law in the voting day and allow that group of our citizens to complete their studies and sort of solve their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43030	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because you blatantly violated this article, because you did not allow me to address the minister's presentation, where it clearly states that the basis for the replica is not only an insult, but also if an MP is misread. I wanted to answer the ministers most normally to what they obviously misread me, you did not allow me to do so, and you violated this member of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what that would be terrible to say to the finance minister that from his website, the Ministry of Finance can look at the amount of public debt and how much it is in percentages, that it does not deceive us, knowingly or unconsciously, the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the pensioners themselves. His website says completely different from what he brought us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43032	Mr. Alexic, I still think I didn't hurt Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The minister, as I have seen from his answer, understands you quite well, but you have not quite understood his answer, the problem is that you do not understand the minister does not give you the right to reply. You misread him, I'm sorry. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to commend these two days of discussion how leadership is consilingly and tolerantly leading these sessions, and that contributes to a better atmosphere, which still doesn't mean we're theater or academy. I have to tell you, Mr. Chairman, so you think about it, I didn't want to report in to the Rules of Procedure. You are probably right when it comes to the request of counterpart Alexic for a replica, you are probably right when it comes to ministers, but I think you were obliged to give him the presentation of counterpart Martinovic. It doesn't matter, but just think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43034	A colleague of Vukadinovic, you answered after a discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43035	I'm saving you time, but I'm collegiately telling you to think about it because you should've given it to your colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43036	That's when you run the session. Now ask for a word again and start with a discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43037	It would be nice if you were half careful about what the agenda theme is when it comes to some other exhibitions. Anyway, I wanted to contribute, but you don't allow, tolerable tone and business where most of this discussion takes place. We have more important laws. I wanted to start with what's commendable and I think it's good, no matter what it does immediately reduces attention and tension and the attractiveness of exposure, but I think we should commend what we can praise, no matter what side we sit here on. I think it's good, and I support it to allow the end of schooling for students who couldn't do it for different reasons. It's not a cost to the state, so let's just wonder if we should or shouldn't. It's not in this case, so it's not right if we don't go out and meet them. It's not just about extending the deadline for those old students, but there are a few more good things in this proposal for a law on education. So these solutions are already mentioned on the lecturers. I think what's in general is very well written, the whole article is well written and the minister has started something in that direction. I would just ask him how he intends to fix the situation, in terms of increasing the number of lecturers, because it's a very abandoned position of Serbian language outside Serbia, it's a special topic, but in universities around the world it's bad and there's a lot to be done. I think this is a step in the right direction, there's no slow. Also, something mentioned, but not sufficiently highlighted, in article 64, the secret vote of the branch office at universities, to be chosen by a secret vote. I don't think that's bad, it encourages people who may have objections and are not prone to it, and for personal reasons they are pressed, blackmailed or scared of their status, there is a lot of it at the university, therefore, to plead freely. So, the introduction of a secret vote by the management body is also commendable. It is understood, it is also commendable to declare the University of Belgrade as a higher education institution of national importance, even if it sounds good, it is commendable, and I hope that in the coming period this declaration will be followed by some concrete measures, it has also been pointed out that Belgrade University, no matter where it works and ends, is some sort of educational locomotive, and when the situation is well, progresses the whole system, somehow draws better. And vice versa, when the crisis strikes the facility, it is a weak vision of the joy of some private universities when the Belgrade University is in crisis. On the contrary, I think that then the whole level and the quality of education collapses. Anyway, it's commendable. My dilemma is, I think that's what my colleague Michaelovska mentioned, I have a serious dilemma about this, I'm talking about critical things now, management of higher education institutions. It's not even precise in this proposal, but it's unclear what managers do, how their business overlaps, whether it overlaps or doubles with what they do, say, sold for finance and dean itself. I think there's a trend in the management of higher education. I'm not sure that's a good thing, although I understand that there are jobs that require systematic work, which the prodigal or dean can't do for objective reasons. I'm simply paying attention because a kind of college director would be introduced here at a small door, which then disrupts the relationship between the functioning of higher education institutions. So, that's a discussion to me, if you can comment on it. Just one technical thing, if he doesn't hate you, correct it, in Article 64, when it comes to the one who can't be chosen for the authority of a higher education institution, and that's where the person convicted of a criminal offence, who's been given a recommendation to resolve by the Anti-Corruption Agency, and now there's a formulation, or a person who's been relieved of the duties of the branch, in accordance with this law. I think there's only one word missing - a forceful discharge of duty. We've been asking a lot of questions about getting in, because that's what we're talking about. Someone can be resolved without actually turning out to be wrongly resolved and then disabled, so they can't compete. Simply pay attention to that, it can be done under the legal and technical order. What's second, which I'll have less time for, but there's no doubt what I mean about it, I'm saying, I don't want to get any points, but I want to get into the record, no matter what it's said. This law, which sort of corrects, or abolishs the temporary reduction of pensions, I think is good that it is passed, is bad that it has to be passed at all. I think that, and I want to say it loud and clear, you didn't have to take that measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43038	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43039	I've still got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43040	You don't. You've wasted your time discussing the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43041	What you last said has already been done. So that word "justly" is put in the newsroom, tomorrow it's a committee, so it's definitely going to be interpreted that way. As far as managers are concerned, there will be no arbitrary adoption of what is a function and this has been left to be regulated by the Finance Act. The National Council for Higher Education and all other people from the university will participate. So, it doesn't come from bad intentions, I've already said that, it comes from practical needs. So if we have a high-ranking funding, which is well based on our own students' incomes, the ambition of the state is, if there's more money, to overcome it and get in with more money. It relaxes the higher school institution to worry about it that way. Then the real question is, what's the part of being sold for finance is, you're right. Definitely, I've just set an example, when you're dealing with internationalization, when you're solving the property return issue, now imagine the Belgrade University that by restitution gets a significant part of its assets, someone has to have that property, someone has to place it on the market, you know. Let's just say that it's some college at a university that doesn't have that kind of expertise, not everyone from economic college can come and do that. So, you'll see in the solutions, she'll be here in February of the month, where we'll discuss the item per item, so there's no evil intention, on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43042	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go, colleague Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43043	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the SDPS are always satisfied when pensioners, workers' rights and opportunities are increased, when giving is increased for marginal social groups and when the state is trying to reach the highest possible level of social responsibility and socially responsible behaviour. What is essential and what I have to point out about is with these bill proposals, especially regarding pension increases, so, the aspect that will, for its main purpose, improve the standard of life of more than 1,700,000 people, therefore, retire. I owe it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to all my colleagues to say what this context is and what has actually led to this, and what has resulted in today's country which, up to five years ago, has been in huge financial and economic problems that can develop dynamically, can bring about a serious economic growth. It is right that Minister Sinisa Mali, that Serbia today is in second place when it comes to economic growth across Europe. That's true, that's true. Whoever tries to disprove it, whoever says it's not true, just look at the reports, look at the statistics of leading European, economic magazines. Poland is the first with 5.1%, Serbia in the first six months second with 4.9%. So that is the historical and high level of economic growth, that is what it is and is the goal of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of us here who represent the majority in parliament that Serbia in the next few years achieves an economic growth of 5% and more so that it can, of course, stand out more for education, for science, for social categories and, of course, for the country to come to what it deserves, and that is one social and economic well-being. I must point out that our country today has almost no fiscal deficit, that the public debt is reduced, that we are today, when it comes to Duing Business List of the World Bank in 10 places. I will remind you of 2013 and 2014, that colleagues Radeta 176, were only Syria and Somalia behind us. This is how much we managed to achieve through a clear vision of our President and Government through the necessary economic reforms of the fiscal system, but also that every year we have an inflow of foreign, direct investments of over three billion euros and that with 26% of unemployment from 2012 we reach today 13%. I think that over the next year, that is, for the next two years, we will come to this main and basic goal that unemployment in Serbia will be below 10%. Likewise, I must point out that this responsible, fiscal and economic policy has led to an increase in the realisation of capital investments. Today, more than 100km of highways are being built annually in Serbia. Serbia today is connected to the corridors with all the countries in the environment, so it is an economic, trade hub in this region. I will remind you of the construction of the Belgrade railway – Budapest with Chinese partners with their investments expected and in the next few years will be about six billion euros. And, just to remind our public and citizens as well as all my colleagues that this is not about Belgrade – Budapest, but about Belgrade – Budapest – Brno – Bratislava – Krak in Poland, it is a railway that will connect the Republic of Serbia with the southeast, with northern Europe, which means that our goods, but also the goods of our Chinese partners, which may be our most important today, are much easier and faster to go to all parts of Europe. So in any case, we became one bridge, one such great and powerful force, one economic giant like China, which, through Serbia, will be able to distribute its services to other parts of Europe. Of course, our majority is responsible for this, of course, that the president's personal contacts with President Shi, with China's leadership, are responsible for our work today for several thousand employees at RTB Bora, that today we are dealing with 5,000 workers at the Smederevo Ironworks, that this region can live after the collapse that was experienced in 2012 when the Americans sold the company to our country for one euro. And when, of course, the leadership didn't know what to do with the company, and there were many words about the company being shut down, that it went into bankruptcy to simply forget the 5,000 families for which life and operation must have been 50, 60 to 100 thousand people, if we have in mind all those who are tied up, who produce, who are serving for "Juas Steel", or then "Jus Steel", now Hestil", or "Smederevo Iron". So we were able to revive an entire region, entire cities, the investments we have in southern Serbia, in eastern Serbia, the highway to be built, which was built towards the Bulgarian border. Corridor 10, which will be completed within a few months, will definitely be able to bring Serbia together with Greece as soon as possible, with Macedonia and other countries, which will be one of the most important Trade Corridors and for the development of the economy and trade partnerships. Serbia is definitely at the heart of all these trade and economic developments, but despite all these successes, this government and, thank you and the finance minister who proved to be a great project manager, whatever he was doing, he did it successfully, and I have to say it. Downloading the airport "Nikola Tesla", "Er Serbia" takeover by Etyhad and today 5.5 million passengers passing through Belgrade airport compared to 2.5 million in 2013, and, of course, as cream on cake, "the point on I" Belgrade on water", all those at that time in 2013, 2014, in 2015 when we had a debate here in the Assembly, said that it was the village of Popokin, that none of it would be. Here, Belgrade is a town of cranes, over 200 construction sites, zero towers, zero marinas, zero business centres, one brand-new spirit of Belgrade, a clean Belgrade, a real Belgrade that accepts and attracts tourists from Iran, Israel, China, Turkey, the surrounding European countries of the United States where Serbia today has more than a billion euros earned from tourism. There are some concrete successes that have delegated him to be Minister of Finance. It is good that this is the first draft of the law with which he came before us to parliament, which is that he converts all these successes into a better life for our citizens, into a better life for those who voted for our coalition in 2016, who voted for Alexander Vukic, for Rasim Ljajic, in 2017 in the presidential elections, in 2018 in the city elections, 400,000 of these pensioners voted for our list. It voted for Vukic, voted for Nebojsa Stefanovic, voted for Mali, voted for Rasim Ljajic. We are now continuing this policy only, we are giving what is earned, we are no longer in debt, we are not acting as drunk millionaires, we are not acting as populists who are going to raise the PKB or any company that has not paid for its employee taxes and contributions for decades, it has not been competitive, it has not been export-oriented. Now, of course, that populism that we can hear today in the Assembly speaks also against Al Dahra, against Mubadala and against Albabra and his "Emar Properties" company and against "Avital" Israel. Everyone's in the way. A colleague from a right-wing party here spoke, photographed himself outside a factory in Vladica's Han, and propagated politics that we should drive foreign investors away. No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue to attract them, we will continue to bring investors here to hire our people, to bring new technologies, that our people have to work as hard as possible, that workers have the greatest rights. Only a strong economy can bring about a good social policy. Whoever's talking differently is talking about his particular interest or his populist party's interest. That's not true. We now have a strong economy, we are the economic leader in the region, definitely in every respect. I'm sure this team of ministers will continue with this policy that the export orientation economy will be a condition of the qua non-political policy of our government. Just because the economy is stronger, Serbia is stronger politically, so we see some great powerful forces changing their policy not because Serbia is weak, not because Serbia needs charity, but because Serbia is strong, so we have a better position and geopolitical, so we have a better position around our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija and, of course, we will fight. Both the president and our majority will be elected here to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this country, but as one strong economic and military and in every other way, the state. Of course, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, I think that Minister Sarcevic has come here most times, I think this is the sixth time, a man who knows his job very well, who has introduced a dual education with us that will also result in new employment, adapting not to ours, but to the European, therefore, and to the regional labour market, which is very good at implementing reform and makes it more efficient and basic and secondary education. Congratulations on your successes when it comes to higher education. He touched where no one could touch the previous 13 years since the Bologna Declaration was adopted and since our country implemented it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43044	You're bringing the end, colleague Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43045	Thank you. Here, let me just finish the sentence. It puts an end to what's bad. It works on the quality of higher education, and therefore in the interest of our young people, people who need to stay here to work for our country and to develop it together with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43046	Thank you. The word has been given to a fellow MP, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43047	Thank you, my colleague, Vice President Arsic. Many MPs praised the education laws here. The fact is, some solutions are really good in them. It's a perfectly arranged question of the lecturer, etc. However, there are at least two and several reasons why these laws, despite these good solutions, are extremely bad. Two scandalous members in these laws, 14 and 18, show that there is no point for SNS to stop at to reward unhappiness, reward those who go through relationships, reward those who try to cheat the system, bypass the rules and break the laws. There is no law in the field of education, Mr. Sarčević, which, personally, is what your colleagues who were in your place in the previous period, have suggested, without in any way rewarding those who buy diplomas, who forge scientific papers and those who in any way try to circumvent the rules. You tell us here in the light of the law where the mandatory part is – the problems the law needs to solve, the two problems you give us, the problem of insufficient arrangements for the involvement of Serbian language lecturers in higher education institutions abroad and, under two, the problem of functioning of the governing body and the authorities of the higher education institution. Are these really the two problems this law solves? Either you're solving the problem of old students with this law or you're solving the problem of these controversial doctorates, or you're solving the problem of those who have enrolled degrees of studies, and they didn't have the conditions. You or your associates, if they are your associates, I advise you to read future bill proposals that you send to the Assembly, say the two most important problems are these. As I'd like to tell you, you're doing a lot more important things with these laws in an awful bad way. First, Article 14, which amends the old Article 127, firstly, striking from the conditions when diplomas can always be annulled, falls short of the case where final works are plagiarized, when they are not a product of independent work of candidates. In the follow-up of the members in the following positions, this is left to the higher education institution to determine for itself. I'm sorry Minister Mali came out. We also had an example on his case that higher education institutions in these cases tend to protect both their reputation and their teachers and those who doctored on them or mastered or graduated from plagiarizing works. Which is why this is one of our amendments that we are not going to discuss because of your party colleagues who will, of course, submit a ton of amendments to earlier laws, so that this is not discussed. Then comes perhaps the most problematic part of this law, which now introduces a rule here that if, of course, the commission, which you form again, finds that someone who has entered some degree of study, without having the conditions, has fulfilled all the obligations of that degree of study for which he has failed to meet the conditions, that his diploma is not being annulled. You're rewarding those students who entered some degree of study, and for that they didn't meet the conditions. You say - responsibility will be borne by a higher education facility. I agree, but it's not just a high school institution that can be held accountable. The responsibility must be borne by that student. First, it is impossible to ask that an adult who enrolled in college or master studies or doctoral studies does not know that he does not meet the conditions for those studies. Corruption, to tell you, is a two-way street. He who receives bribes is also guilty, and he who gives bribes is guilty. If one is enrolled through a relationship to a degree of study that does not meet the conditions, he must answer. You hereby release them from all responsibility. Next, Article 18, amending an old member of the 149th Law. They're famously controversial doctors. You say you've been thinking for two years about how to solve this problem, so you chose the worst possible solution. You've chosen to take the line of less resistance. Well, we say all these controversial doctors are going to be okay now, all those who didn't get the credentials, who had issued their diplomas, and if they didn't have the credentials, all those diplomas were valid. Is there really one case that you have solved any problem so as not to be rewarded by the flyers, that those who have violated the laws are not rewarded, that those who have looked only to circumvent the rules and go through relationships are not rewarded? It's not the first time you've admitted the diplomas of those who don't have the conditions to betray their diplomas. We have a case of our colleague Zukorlic, whose university works based on the government's opinion that his invalid diplomas have to be considered valid, so it's just a continuation of your policy. Say a few more words about these laws that they spoke of, and, more or less, all the MPs of the people and the messengers of the people before me. To us is your colleague, Mr. Djordjevic, I am now speaking to you, V.D. Assistant Minister, Mr Milosevic, here he sits, I was pleased to come to the Committee a few days ago saying that the Law of 2014 was designed with intent and that his provisions were formulated in such a way that the pensioners were never returned to what was taken from them during this pension reduction. He said that such a return because of the way the Law formulated this problem would now be against the law and that these people actually don't have any chance of looking for that money. So, not only is it your intention not to return it, but you've premeditatedly done it in such a way that it never comes back. I don't know how to tell you, what you took from them, it wasn't yours. They received these pensions on the basis of their paying off during their working days, on the basis of which they were calculated how large their pensions were and you simply estimated that their pensions were too large and that they were the ones who needed to save the economy from the alleged collapse and that their pensions would be the key to fiscal consolidation. Then you've spent these pensions, again I'm sorry Mr. Mali isn't here, the example is for two ideal things, spent on New Year's lighting, on masts, on fountains, on various your private business variants, and now you show up as great rescuers who pay them back, who, although they have no intention of returning what they've taken from them, represent it as a great reward to the pensioners, and their height will depend on how you decide to do it in the future. So that's the point of today's pension debate. We can cloud the essence with big words. You, Minister Djordjevic, can be angry with us for not understanding or as Mr. Arsic says, we are not sufficiently educated to understand the letter you are reading to us, which you have sent to the Fiscal Council in response to their measures, but the essence here is very simple. The point is that you took away people from what they earned, and then you spent all that money on lighting, trees, fountains and masts, that you had no intention of ever giving it back to them, and that in the future what they earned would depend on your goodwill. This is the essence we are talking about today and there are no letters to the Fiscal Council and there are no letters to Alexander Vukic to the pensioners, who will be able to cloud that essence. But as Parliamentarian Bozovic said, we have already paid back all the pensions you owed to the pensioners once again, you owe them again, and we will pay it back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43048	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a series of lies have been told here at the expense of SNS and Alexander Vukic. First of all, as far as the University of Novi Pazar, the state University of Novi Pazar, if I remember correctly, was one of the founders of the late Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, and at the time of the DS, the state university had nothing to do with you. Now I see you're in the way. As far as Mrs. Jerkov's testimony goes, I brought here the index of the president of my party and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. I have been publicly reading the reviews that Alexander Vukic received at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad and you have so far not shown, you who are constantly talking about some fling, some fake doctorates, about how someone has cheated on someone, how the state protects someone, just because he is a member of the SNS, here I am asking you, please show your index, your political leaders, so let's see who's waving. There's something else I need to tell you. These private colleges that you are now waging a war, they are founded, they flourished at the time of your government, at the time of your government the then president of the Republic held an exclusive lecture at a private university and that was then, as I say, commendable. It was a matter of personal rating if you went to that university. It is now suddenly Minister Sarcevic's fault for the state of higher education. As far as fake doctorates are concerned, you've been talking about it for a few years now because you don't have any other subjects. The only evidence you have against people is that an assistant in London said that someone plagiarized their doctoral work. You don't have anything else. So, I call you once again, here we are, I'll bring back my president's index, Alexander Vukic, and you bring the index of any of you, Dragan Gilas, Zoran Lutovac, I don't know who your leader is anymore, so we'll see who was a better student and who really hung out in the course of the study and who didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43050	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP, colleague of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43051	Thank you. A few things we really don't understand, which is why I'm glad. Some things I'm really proud of we'll never think the same thing. There is no war here against private colleges, we are waging a war against bought diplomas, against plagiarized scientific papers, against all those who are reluctant to work through relationships and bypassing rules insult all those students, all those students, all those children, and all those people who are trying to explain to their children that work and learning is worth it. On the other hand, you guys are constantly rewarding these people. What difference does it make who studied with the fact that you today propose the law of 2018, which states that a valid diploma of the one who entered a degree of study has not met the conditions? You can insult as much as you want, you can expect us to faint here because Alexander Vukic graduated from Law School. Believe me, there are societies where he doesn't admire someone who's graduated from college. Somehow, it implies that it's a normal thing that you graduated from college without buying any diplomas. Unfortunately, many government ministers cannot boast of it. As for our fellow Mufti, whom I am glad you are so much protecting, the fact that Zoran Djindjic then opened that university has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that he worked 15 years later without accreditation, and you allow him to do the same. In the end, Mr. Martinovic, we talked several times, you take one text, you take another text, you see that they are the same, it's called plagiarism.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43052	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43053	I've seen what it looks like, you take one text, and you take another text, so it says "The Sandman". Did the Sandstone measure the scientific value of someone's scientific work? It would be good to explain, here, since you've recently doctored, you've mastered some European sciences and you've been a master of European science, to explain to us what the subject of some European sciences is, and you'll admit, I may be a stupid man, so I don't understand what it is, what European sciences are, with the subject of your doctoral dissertation? If you find me a connection, I'll congratulate you, but it doesn't matter. As for this subject of insult, when did I offend you? When did I tell you anything ugly? I just said that the state University of New Market was opened at the time when you ruled, or your party ruled this country. I don't know, how can you open a university that hasn't previously met the legal requirements, and still boast about it? Then you needed the voices of the Bosniaks in Novi Pazar, so it was a good mufti. Now that you can't get any more votes, that is, when you can't count on them, then you're running a hunt against that university, and you're doing it from case to case, when what suits you is your attitude. As far as insult is concerned, here's who was exposed, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, the citizens of Serbia, the most harmless insult a few days ago. One of the leaders of this coalition, some Zeljko Veselinovic, says: "I don't care that Ana Brnabic is the prime minister, a lesbian, and I never commented on it, but as such an evil, insidious ignorant, member of the Trilateral Commission and president of the NAED Management Board is now taking sides with the junkies and murderers, Zeljko Mitrovica, defending "Pink" and "Cooperative", criticising the minister of culture to whom he says he is not in the business of banning reality, but that the people should look at them regardless of Suda and Gomoru, which some half-world debuted there daily. Well, dear ficus prime minister... “, this is what these Europeans civilised who want to teach us culture lessons: “Well, dear ficus Prime Minister, I want you to be locked up once by this same Mitrovica in the Cooperative in four walls without a key with one... “ You can think of what is thought to be: “A gifted African - American who has just been released from prison, and that show has been watching the people for a few months, so that I can see if she can defend the worst of this world’s scum. “ I am now asking you from the DS and all of you who are under the hat of Dragan Gilas, and who have women’s children, what if this Zeljko Vesenović had written this for your daughters or for your grandchildren? You kept your mouth shut on these no-good words just because they were sent to the expense of a woman, who is the Prime Minister, who was supported by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43054	Right on the line, People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43055	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I expect a three-and-a-half minute replica, as well as a colleague, Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43056	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43057	Of course, the Democratic Party condemns what Zeljko Veselinović said, as we always condemn every protest, every speech of hatred and everything you very often hear, very often you say, very often you support, and God damn it, and you have led a policy that is absolutely in line with what Zeljko Veseinović said and wrote. So there's another difference between us. You're talking about someone's daughters and women who are offended by what he said. That's right. And how many daughters and women are offended by what you did in the 1990s, by what you're doing now? How many daughters and women are offended by tweets also by a woman who is vice president of the National Assembly on Srebrenica, who you continue to hold in that place and refuse to discuss her debate? How many daughters of these same women, along with Seselj, have you left with no husbands, no fathers, no brothers, no roof over your head? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43058	Comrade Jerkov, I'm sorry, you can't accuse someone of killing someone. You can't do that. You can't. Even people were mentioned by name and last name. So you adjust your right to a replica of good taste. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43059	Thank you. As for the second, or first part of your presentation, Mr. Martinovic, I am pleased that, from what you have said, you will support our amendment, which we predict will always be invalidated in the event it becomes known, it turns out that some final work has been the fruit of the unsustainable work of the candidates. I agree that the "Sandstone" site cannot determine, but as you can see, the law is like this, and Minister Sarcevic suggests that it continues, that Megatrend University itself decides whether someone at Megatrend University has plagiarized its work. At the end of the day alone, I believe you don't see the connection between my doctoral dissertation and my subject, my master's thesis. Imagine, we're not all like you to write the same paper and publish it under a new name every time and autoplague scientific papers. So, believe me, some people deal with different topics in their scientific work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43060	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43061	So, as far as I understand it, I'm one of the people who killed Serbian citizens and who I turned black into many women and mothers in Serbia because of the policy I supported during the 1990s. Is that right? All right. You, Mrs. Jerkov, are an intellectual, an intellectual in the field of social science. You've recently become a doctor of science. There is a good book I recommend, published by the Institute of Social Sciences, called "Political Party in Serbia, structure and functioning". The editor of this book is current DS President Zoran Lutovac. Unlike you, I sometimes find time to read something, except "Today" and other media that support you. On page 51 of this book, whose editor is Zoran Lutovac, and in the meantime he seems to have forgotten what he wrote himself, here's what he says about DS, these famous 1990s. "The Democratic Party stands out for parliamentary democracy and the democratic Federation. However, instead of a democratic way of resolving the national issue, in the 1990 programme, the DS is a project to establish a large Serbia, and then quotes from the DS programme, and the national policy of the Serbian state, just like other national states, must be aimed at all territories predominantly populated by Serbs entering one state. If after a referendum, plebiscite and secession of certain parts of Yugoslavia, such a reduced common state includes several Yugoslav peoples, it should be an integrated and well-organised Federation. The Serbian people will otherwise establish their national state and demand that no part of the Yugoslav territory inhabited by Serbs remain outside the borders of the state. “ It is further said that in the case of a change in the nature of Yugoslavia, as a common country or its decomposition, DS, I quote, therefore, this is a quote from the 1990 DS programme, says – the DS considers the legitimate aspirations of the Serbian people, as many of its countrymen as possible to gather under one state roof.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43062	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43063	So before you throw a stone at anyone, take a little, and read it, and you'll see what kind of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43064	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43065	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a member of the 107th violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. That's what my colleague Jerkov did. I can understand the person who wrote in her biography that she had completed the most CIA training. If she'd written the BIA, I wouldn't have been so comfortable, but the CIA, right now, it's causing me some kind of aversion. But it looks like she's been trained badly. She insulted the dignity of the National Assembly. She wasn't an MP in 2002, I was. I welcomed that Zoran Djindjic opened the University of Novi Pazar, hailed. None of them did. The government of the Republic of Serbia was an employee, Mr. Minister, as I recall, and another 200 benefactors opened in a sensitive national environment at the university. The main man at that university, the president or director, was the same man she's up against right now. His name was Muamer Zukorlic. I think that's what it's called today. But then she didn't mind. He should also ask his colleague Gordana Comic and some other DS officials if they visited the university and openly praised him. She also hurt her dignity because she doesn't care who she studies. Well, of course, Jesic studied for 12 years, from 1993 to 2005 and got a dozen. And in that application for an examination and assessment, and an assessment and application for an exam written by the same hand. Whether the student evaluated himself or the professor reported the student remains a dilemma, which I believe the DS will tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43066	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. () Right to replica, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43067	Thank you. Since the renewal of the multi-party system in Serbia to this day, all political parties operating in our country's territory can easily be divided into patriots and those who are not. The Serbian Radical Party since its founding is a patriotic party. SRS President Vojislav Seselj and all of us followers of this SRS ideology have always been and worked and acted in the interest of the Serbian state, in the Serbian-national interests and in the interest of all citizens living in the territory of the Serbian state. Never in any way have any of us threatened or violated the rights of national minorities. On the contrary, we have always advocated as many national minority rights as possible at the highest European standards. We are proud that we have a lot of people in the party's leadership and among the party's membership, a lot of members who are members of different national minorities, and that is something that is common knowledge. Aleksandra Jerkov started her political career, actually started in a political party for which everyone in Serbia also knows that she is with expressed separatist attitudes and ideas, that she is anti-Serbian, that, as Marian said, like Alexandra herself, the CIA and someone who boasts about these some kind of CIA diplomats and sits here in the National Assembly, so I can't say she has no right, because everyone here has to have the right to say everything he thinks she needs to say, but it's immoral to talk about anyone, since she has admitted herself in her biography that she's actually working in the interest of another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43068	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43069	I would return to the very discussion of the previous MP concerning amendments and amendments to the law. Knowing her co-worker and her intelligence, I think she made all these comments. I'll prove it very easily. First and foremost, you know what the autonomy of higher education institutions means and what is the domain of scientific council when it comes to plagiarists and the rest. It's not the Ministry's domain. You already know everything that's written in the law and how this procedure is conducted. This is where you skillfully manipulate it and tie it to a member who doesn't connect it, doesn't relate. Just enough to make the public and academic, and the one that's not that, know what we're talking about. When we talk about the admissions committee. Can't get a student to write himself down, there's no such thing as a category. We're not talking about the mass number of students here, we're talking about the number of students who've been missing for a while, 10, 15, 20 days to move to another level of study, and they're encouraged by higher education institutions that they'll end up in the meantime. We've been investigating it. So, just because of the case... We've been researching. This puts an end to what a chicken or an egg is, who can enroll, and this is not a form of corruption. So anyway, the student couldn't put himself in, and that's the point. Since it hasn't been defined, here we put it to the point that it's certainly the responsibility of an older man, and it's a college and a high-level vocational school. If I was trying to make it a turn in education, I wouldn't have started the action of shutting down not accredited departments all over Serbia, and it was very rigorous, to which everything was jumping alive on me. On the other hand, you take the example of the International Private University of Novi Pazar, which received its first temporary work permit in 2002, and it has been repeated four times. You know very well that's not why his complete accreditation of all the programs. The university has 14 programs, one of which has been accredited, which was not controversial, and then it was disputed that certain doctors were not recognised for further accreditation. That's where the administrative procedure is being conducted, and no one's done anything yet. It's an open book, and you know it. It's not like you say it is. By contrast, we have a university, a state-owned, integrated University in Novi Pazar, where we also need that region to get as many higher education citizens as possible. As one of the centers of the university, we advocate to form there, in that region, because of the great birth rate and the need for the state there to be visible, even a centre for a scientific and technical park. When it comes to students you say are flies. They weren't hooking up with students. These doctors had two, I'm going to repeat, two regular accreditations and only when the accreditation committee was leaving the scene because it disappeared from the scene, she reported that the cobajagi were investigating that 20 private colleges did not report doctoral studies after Bologna. We sent an inquiry to all high school institutions, state and private, and we realized it didn't do a lot of state colleges, some 100 years old and a hundred years old. If your logic were managed, they would cancel at least a thousand and a half, if not more, PhDs for technical reasons, for technical reasons only. We're coming back to that relationship with the student – could he have put himself in, that they didn't do colleges and high school in time, which the ministry didn't notice and react then? It's been so many years, and now we can bid whether 10,000 students are threatened because of such a mistake, and call them liars, unemployed, thieves and false diplomats, it's at least unnecessary. I wouldn't use another term. Like when we say old students, students who study under the old program, and I think it's very, very important. The attempt to drain dry drains from this law is very unsuccessful. The National High Council, I will repeat once again, unanimously, all the Conus members, not even those appointed by the state, have said that this was a technical problem and that it can be overcome in this way. It has nothing to do with those universities, out-of-state departments and high school institutions that aren't accredited. I gave the order to shut down myself. The inspection starts at first. So that's two categories and don't put them in the same basket. It's simply not fair because of those students or their teachers who feel very bad. They weren't brought into this state by their own fault. Only during the third accreditation did someone create a problem. Really try to figure out the whole story. I've already explained it twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43070	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic: I answered. You answered? (Alexander Martinovic: Replica. Replica? Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43071	I don't know if you've been following a statement from the DS... The Democratic Party's emissaries are insolent. You're having a good time. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The President of the Republic congratulated you for forming a government, there is no reason to be nervous. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. I don't know why they got so nervous. [[Alexandra Jerkov: There is no right to replication. Who is he replicating to?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43072	Would you like to let a colleague of Martinovic go, so we can find out who he's replicating to? (Balsa Bozovic: Permutovao is Mr Martinovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43073	Mr. Arsic, I don't mind. Give me the word of the Duke of Maldives. I see he's reported in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I see he's very nervous. Otherwise, he came to the National Assembly dressed so that if some ordinary citizen came, they'd kick him out, he couldn't get into the National Assembly building. This is the man who lectures us about democracy, about culture, about pensions, so let's listen to the Duke of Maldives, and then I'll pick up after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43074	The word is Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43075	Art. 106, 107, 108 and 109 you broke, Mr. Arsic. Because, first of all, you kept silent about the insults he referred to me personally, as well as Mrs. Alexandria Jerkov. (Alexander Martinovic: Get out and let the people see how you're dressed. I don't know why he doesn't like the way I'm dressed for Mr. Martinovic and why he's staring at me. I'm a little visibly shaken. Why does he care how I dress, why he follows me, shoots me, whether my tie is tied, one way or another? It's very important that you warn him, Mr. Arsic, every time he brings out some hate, some untruth, some lie on my account or any of you. That's number one. Number two, which is why I reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, is that the second time a man replicates, and Aleksandra Jerkov did not report in the meantime. So he's permuting something. Apparently, he was visibly shaken by what Alexandra Jerkov was saying about him and his plagiarized five scientific papers, and he was upset. Please warn him and tell him to sit down, not to make a circus out of this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43076	Mr Bozovic, I don't know, since you recognized yourself as the Duke of Maldives, I really don't know, but I do know very well that one former minister, who was also an MP in your parliamentary group, the MPs, who did not support that government, did not allow him to enter the room in jeans. Maybe that's what my colleague Martinovic's finding is about. (Balsa Bozovic: Where does that say?) I don't know. (Balsa Bozovic: The fact that you were in your mother's house with Seselj, that's OK? ) Mr Bozovicu, I address you with all due respect and I do not tell you – Is, Balša, but – Mr Bozovicu. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You can't, I haven't finished the answer yet. And I can't break the Rules of Procedure twice. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43077	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. So I ask the Duke of Maldives to come out here, to see him Serbian citizens dressed, because the way he dresses when he comes to the National Assembly is not appropriate. When Serbian citizens dress like that, the officers at the entrance won't let them into the National Assembly building. He comes in jeans and shoes to the National Assembly, I won't go in as much as it costs, and thus shows how much he really cares about pensioners and citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly. And this leprosy and carriage dictionary that uses the exhibits of Dragan Gilas, it was probably borrowed from one of the leaders of this new DOS coalition, Zeljko Veselinovic. They seem to like the sentences very much – well, dear, ficus prime minister, I want you to be locked up once by this same Mitrovica in four walls, without a key, with one gifted African-American, just released from prison and that show of the people watching for a few months, so I can see if after that, you can defend the worst of this world scum. Thus, the chariot dictionary they use has now been introduced into the National Assembly. And I see they've brought in the carriage style. Because the way Mr. Balša Bozovic dresses, that's how English jockeys dress on Sundays, when he's a derby and he's a horse race, which, of course, is one great cultural achievement of the English people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43078	You're bringing the end. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43079	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was done a long time ago, but you seem to have some affection for Balša Bozovic, and that's probably according to the one who shouts more, gets a faster injury to the Rules of Procedure than someone who thinks he can and by keeping his mouth shut to something. So, Article 104, which refers to giving the possibility of a replica, I would like to say that you have broken, because you did not allow Martinovic at all to say anything other than a sentence, you did not pay attention to what Aleksandra Jerkov said, you did not allow him to say, that he was looking for a replica based on another discussion and to connect what Aleksandra Jerkov said about Verica Radete and about how she pulled the parallel between one tweet and this, the intentions of the Democratic Party and their leaders, as this latest, is called, it is disgusting for me to repeat, some Zeljko Veseinović. I hate to read this at all, but their scream today wants to cloud the essence, that none of them have condemned this tweet by Željko Veseinović, any woman who is in DS or any newest political option, because they like it. Because it is not threatened by the rape of one of their supporters, but by the woman who performs the highest function in this country, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. And that's a shame. And here they're full of women's mouths, when they're discussing international forums, women, women's rights, women's parliamentary networks. This is what their entire liberal political option is about. They support the brutal insult of a woman who has dared to deal with politics in this country, who is not a member of any party. Did you throw this person out of the party? (Alexandra Jerkov: not in our party. But you like him, you sit with him in some coalitions. You disgust him, right? That's what you said. What president? (Alexander Martinovic: He is the president of the alliance. And he's the president of your alliance? You'll stand behind the same flag with this morbid personality, with this slut, with this person who insults people and other skin color, not just Anna Brnabic? Shame on you. You all deserve a reminder together, a reminder from the citizens of Serbia. This is morbid, what you support. This is disgusting. You have insulted people of other skin color, insulted Ana Brnabic, insulted every woman who dares to be in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia and is involved in politics. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43080	My colleague Gojkovic, I believe that you are really right and that we would not continue with the insults, I am setting a three-minute break, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43082	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I advertise Article 27 because I believe that the anxiety that exists in the SNS ranks is so great that, despite your being a member of the SNS, you are at this moment the chairman of the National Assembly, right? You have to, not to mention, but you have to courteous this debate. First, you won't insult me from that place when I can't answer you. Under really strange circumstances, you told me not to dress up to this National Assembly, even though I have a tie, a shirt, a jacket and shoes, I don't know what's weird about it, and you don't think it's weird when you've all been in Vojislav Seselj's shirts together in the assembly, and that's all right for you. So, Aleksandar Martinovic, head of the SNS Parliament Club, has shown great anxiety on several occasions, I don't know why you're so worried about why you're so upset, you insult me on a personal basis, completely off the subject of the agenda, we're talking about pensions that you took from the pensioners, and on the other hand, you insult me if I'm dressed like this. Don't look at me, believe me, I'm uncomfortable. Leave me alone, I'm dressed, I mean more polite than many people who sit next to you, but I'm not getting into it at all, it's kind of a home education thing and some relationship to this business. I only ask you, Mr. Arsic, that the insult of Aleksandra Jerkov who otherwise condemned what Mr. Vesenovic wrote in a tweet and then accuse women of keeping it quiet, that you also have to react, you follow this session. (Vladimir Orlic: Who is chairing the alliance this morning? So what they're yelling across the street from a lack of arguments, as I say, shows a lack of character, that's their problem. But let's see which, and of course the MP club condemns it, as Mr. Ciric puts it, but let's go back to the subject of the agenda and talk about how and how to explain, you have 700 thousand pensioners who you've taken something from and you have no intention of giving it back to them. That's the topic of the agenda and let's get back to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43083	Mr Balša Bozovicu, I do not see where I was wrong, or I have violated the provisions of Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I gave the assumption that these could be the reasons why colleague Martinovic warned in your dress. As for entering the National Assembly with T-shirts, a political message has been sent, and I don't know what kind of political message you can send if you're dressed as an English joker really. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43084	I'm sorry, Chairman, but Article 103 says something different than what's going on today. So it is the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not to replicate all MPs who have also called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't understand why you keep giving Balshi Bozovic the word for hurting the Rules of Procedure, and it has some sanctions if it doesn't. But we will not move to the agenda until our MPs... (Maya Vidinović: Wow! Wow?- I'm sorry. So, I don't know how to talk like we're in a bar until it explains to us whose president is Zeljko Veselinović right now? And, are those who sit in the hall today in front of the DS are in the Alliance for Serbia, whose President Zeljko Veseinovic, a person who said that Prime Minister Brnabic, ficus, the prime minister of lesbians, evil, insidious, ignorant, member of the Trilateral Commission and President of the NAED Management Board, had sided with the junkie and murderer Željko Mitrovica, etc., and that -- dear ficus permier, I want you to be locked up in the Association in four walls, without a key, with one gifted African-American, just released from prison, and that show the people watching for a few months afterwards, to see whether they would defend the worst of this world scum. Their President Zeljko Veselinovic is the worst of the world's scum. I say that as a woman who's been in politics for 28 years. This has never happened in a multi-party system since I've been involved in politics and this woman they sit through, they've had President Zeljko Veselinovic write this and can't get over it. It can't be crossed, because this is the nice, wonderful Serbia they want to introduce beyond the will of the citizens here to power. So you can't get over it. Don't throw Jerkovka to me, but get out of this alliance, because your president is Zeljko Veseinovic, the worst piece of dirt in Serbia. That's your president, not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43085	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43086	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. So, I didn't insult anyone, I just said that the gentleman who graduated from the Law School at the Bona Fides cafe was dressed so that if an ordinary citizen, who wasn't a National MP, tried to enter the National Assembly building, he wouldn't be released because security told him - you can't enter the National Assembly in jeans and shoes. But if we don't deal with it now, let it dress as it pleases. What's important is to say, it's that people who represent so-called. Serbia's opposition, the new DOS, so-called Alliance for Serbia. In fact, the alliance against Serbia has moved from word to deed. A few days ago, they brutally insulted, i.e. Their rotating president, Zeljko Veselinovic, brutally insulted Ana Brnabic, threatening her by a gifted African-American, as he expressed himself, and Saturday night the husband of the SNS Mesno Committee's trustee was attacked in Sapac. Through her mouth was a taped patch, they held her hands behind her back and told her – tell her husband to stop dealing with politics, only because Mr. Mlade Čolić, who is a confidant of one of the SNS local committees in Šapac, an incomparable opponent of one of the leaders of this new DOS, Dusan Shanet Petrovic, who imagined that he should remain a Nahi prince in Šapac for the rest of his life and that no one has the right to come to power except him. So this is about those who were condemning tweets from individual MPs going from words to deeds, now they start beating and beating people around Serbia who don't think like Dragan Djilas, like Dusan Shane Petrovic, like Vuk Jeremic, as Bosko Obradovic. I tell them that with such a practice, the state of Serbia will react, and the citizens of Serbia will say in the elections who they support and whose policy they think is best. So, Mr. Arsic, you're keeping an eye on the dangerous thugs, the same ones who burned down the National Assembly building 18 years ago. They would do so today only if they were given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43087	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43088	I speak in accordance with Article 28, and I would not say that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, simply on this side today is heard whatever comes to mind. But to draw attention to the fact that MP Balsa Bozovic is not dressed according to the uniform code, it is a matter of his culture, or unculture, and it is simply wrong that the MP can come in shoes and jeans, because it is not allowed as we have heard any citizen, or journalists at the end, who follow our work. Now, Balsa Bozovic is that he doesn't know the uniform code and that he doesn't have a culture of behavior in the National Assembly, reminds us that we Serbian radicals used to come in shirts with the image of our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. You, Mr Arsic, have said that political messages were sent to those shirts at the time, but I simply want to remind you that Vojislav Seselj was in the custody of the UN tribunal at the time, that he had been violated in the most harsh way possible by human rights, that his health was threatened, that his procedural rights were compromised, the right to a reasonable period of time when it came to the length of the trial, and that we, of course, demonstrated our protest to The Hague tribunal in this way by sitting in these T-shirts and showing Serbian citizens our relationship to The Hague tribunal. But there's something else to say here. What was happening to Serbs in The Hague is the result of what they were doing at the time of the dosmania, which handed over Serbs to the UN tribunal, who put our archives on the will of the UN tribunal's prosecution which was not recorded anywhere in the world, and instead of covering themselves with ears and keeping quiet from this disgrace and not only shame but from the crimes they committed and which threatened the stability of the Serbian state, they still appear to say something on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43089	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, she's a colleague of Jerkov's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43090	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 106. Obviously, the intention here is to talk about everything, who dressed up, who was flying, who was tweeting, etc., and not to talk about the essence, and the point is simple that it couldn't be simpler – pensioners were taken away from what they had earned, and money was spent on masts, trees, fountains and New Year's lighting, and now no one has the intention of paying them back. That's the point, Mr. Arsic. Please draw attention to the MPs, in accordance with your obligation as Vice-President of the Assembly and the current chairman, that we should talk about this today, and that is the only thing that the Rules of Procedure today obliges you to do, and that is the only thing that the Rules of Procedure allow us to talk about today at the session. So, I can talk to my colleagues by tomorrow about how someone gets dressed, I can talk to tomorrow about who's been traveling, I can read tweet by tomorrow, and we can say by tomorrow that we are judging and that this behavior is unacceptable, as we have condemned other tweets and other behaviors of other colleagues, who, surprisingly, have been absolutely acceptable at that time for colleagues across the street. So, please talk, believe that pensioners in Serbia don't care how any of us are dressed, they're interested in why you don't want to give them back what you illegally took from them, and that's what we're interested in here. Not you, obviously, but just as you were interested in them when you took away from them, so they're interested in them now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43091	Comrade Jerkov, I have to distract you. I have continued to avoid it, but since you are also dragging the subject through the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, fountains and street lighting are financed from the budget of local self-government. (Alexandra Jerkov: Answer the word, Mr Arsic. I answer. Did you advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov: And you comment on the violation of the Rules of Procedure or what I said?) I comment on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov: In what? Why did you hurt the Rules of Procedure? Well, now I'm explaining. Are you gonna let me or are you just gonna say whatever you want and accuse me of whatever you want? So I'm distracting you. Fontans and street lighting are financed from the budget of local self-government, and the pension fund is complemented by the republican budget. You've mixed something up, agenda theme. (Alexandra Jerkov: That's why you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure? ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov: Of course I do. Of course, all right. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43092	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. So, Mrs Jerkov does not seem to know exactly what her President Zeljko Veselinovic is doing, so Zeljko Veseinovic, the rotating president of the Alliance for Serbia, so-called. Alliance for Serbia. This abomination at the expense of Prime Minister Brnabic was not published on Twitter, but on his Facebook statute, and you did not apologize for his sentences he wrote about Ana Brnabic, but I reminded Serbian citizens of what your president wrote about Ana Brnabic. Otherwise, you kept your mouth shut about these most primitive possible insults at the expense of one woman above all, ladies, who is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. There's something else I'll read to you. It was posted on Twitter. So this was on Facebook. This President of yours, Željko Veselinović, on 29 January 2018, did not condemn it either, you who are constantly calling for the removal of a message that has been published on Twitter. Here's what your Željko Veselinović published on January 29, 2018. How come you don't mind? He says this - who has not had the opportunity to see Roma's behavior in the parks, go with the children to the first park to look at that behavior. This is pure racism, this is more than that, this is fascism, this is hate speech. So that's what you use. On Facebook one day you attack Anna Brnabic because she is the Prime Minister, threaten her with a gifted African-American, and several months earlier on Twitter, this is your Zeljko Veselinovic, in the worst possible way, insulting members of the Roma population. You are now trying to explain to the citizens of Serbia that you are the great Democrats and that you are the great Europeans.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43093	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43094	No, if someone put their hands in the pocket and pensioners and employees and children and youth and students and mothers and fathers and grandparents, this was done by the coalition led by Dragan Dilas, Shanet Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic. Know well that Serbian people and Serbian citizens still have a little longer memories than you think and will never forget the policy of Serbia's destruction that you have spent in Serbia for 12 years, and in Vojvodina, unfortunately, for 16 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43095	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 109 on Article 103. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your high tolerance for the opposition, and I'm not going to ask you to vote on this, no matter what rules you should subtract two minutes from the DS parliamentary group. I'll try to explain what you've missed to see, because here we're the most harshly offended by a DS member, who herself said she's been trained by the CIA, and she's probably been ordered to try to make some kind of mess here. As far as their violence and insults are concerned, this is how the DS writes to my little things on the official website. He says, "You are not a political opponent, you are a bastard. I didn't expect an apology, I believe the prime minister won't get an apology either, but that political wing, collective member of the Dvora, the Ljotic organisation, should tell us whether they're taking offenses and the violence they've been carrying out lately is competing with the Two who will be the bigger bully. I'll remind you of the doctrine of Dimitri Ljotic, which DS takes over greatly. It is even proven that the greater thugs than the Ljotic group itself, these duvets, cabbages, etc. Namely, Ljotic said in time – we do not need voters, we need fighters. The Democratic Party, or the Dropocratic Party, as the people call it, has largely lost the voter rating, so voters will not. With this in mind, they have concluded that the good is the Latvian doctrine, after losing voters – we are not interested in voters, we are interested in fighters. These fighters, decorated in the Duke of Maldives, etc., in various people who come here dressed as if they came for a walk, here for days insult both us and common sense. I'm not asking you to vote on this, but be a little less tolerant of what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43097	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43098	Mr. Arsic, Vice President of the National Assembly, I am speaking to you, reporting to you under Article 103. Rules of Procedure, because you have violated the Rules of Procedure in one simple matter – you allow, by abuse of the Rules of Procedure, this session of the Assembly to become a farce because of a single and exclusive SNS project. What is quite obvious is that there was no single answer to the arguments made by counterpart Balsa Bozovic, but that you accepted, allowed yourself to be entitled, to assess whether or not you liked the way someone dressed. On the arguments made by my colleague Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, you had nothing to say, but you called for fake biographies on Wikipedia, all because of that and everything in an organized attempt in which you cooperate, you allow. Pensioners who expect the MPs to hear what is actually happening with these amendments to the law receive a completely unequivocal message, which is that the SNS has no intention of returning to them what it has taken from them and that you are using the Serbian Assembly, or abuse it as a party's party's stand to deal with the most brutally possible way of dealing with political opponents. The president of the Assembly, Mrs. Majo Gojkovic, is a huge difference, and you have to understand, these traps that Mr. Martinovic is trying to introduce us to, he's probably confused, I don't think he's sure who he's talking to, with us and with our convictions -- "but". We seriously condemn the most brutal speech of hatred, period. There is no "but" in you, but there is something that is clear to all citizens today, that you are using this as an alibi for what you will not do, and that is that you will not vote for the replacement of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Radeta. When you judge something, there's no buts. There is no such thing as a value assessment and condemnation – but that is clear as well. That you abuse the Assembly so that you do not hear the fact that what you took away from the pensioners and citizens of Serbia will not be returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43099	My colleague Vidinovic, you advertised a member of 103 and accused me of violating him because I allowed my colleague Martinovic to do the same thing you have done now. The same thing you did, you also used the right to get a replica through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't accept that now. Now I see how sincere you really are about the development of democracy in Serbia. I don't have any words. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43100	Article 32. I am sorry that Gordana Comic, also a member of the Democratic Party, and the vice-president of this parliament is not here to say how much her responsibility is not to condemn such a hate speech, besides, and there are indications of serious crimes here. We heard everything, the subsequent condemnation of their leader of the Alliance for Serbia's Facebook status, Zeljko Veseinovic. Let me remind you, colleague, that was Thursday, and today is Monday. It took you four days and our speeches here and the invitation... (Maya Vidinović: What are you saying? You're just throwing the coach, as you know otherwise, I hear it best from here. It took you four days and our whole debate about Zeljko Veselinović, your president, not our president, to get up and say, let's not talk about pensions, about who's leading civil Serbia and the two of you as presidents here. Do you know that this man is a councilman at the Belgrade City Assembly? Is that what I'm supposed to tell you from Novi Sad? You rewarded him, brought him here from Smederev and declared him a councilman on the list of Dragan Gilas, your leader, your president of the Alliance for Serbia, the man who said these things, who insulted him. Do you want me to read it to you? He insulted the Roma, and you didn't think of it all these days for months to condemn. You knew he was insulting the Roma and you agreed to make him your president. It's terrible! It's terrible! Isn't that fascism? Are you proud that Zeljko Veselinović is your leader? And he represents you in the City of Belgrade because you haven't crossed the censorship, so he's your representative. Well, he insults Patriarch Paul. Shall we tell Serbia who your leader is? He insults all the believers of this state, insulting the patriarch Paul. And, finals, from Thursday to Monday, now it's Monday 15 to 2, Thursday he set this up. You two get up and say, "Let's talk about pensions." Well, we're going to talk about pensions, just to finish this, as he said, "fikus prime minister", meaning it humiliates a woman who deals with politics, that Mitrovica is locked in "Cooperative" in four walls, without a key, with one gifted African-American, just released from prison. There is no further, it is disgusting what I read, but I read because of Serbia and I read because you admire your civil Serbia. Here is a representative of civil Serbia in downtown Belgrade, Councilman Zeljko Veselinović. And that gifted African-American is released from prison for telling him that sick mind, your leader Zeljko Veselinović, and that show, imagine how he has, what's in his brain anyway? What he has in his brain to say next is that this show people have been watching for a couple of months, so I can see if after that, you can defend the worst of this world's scum. That's your president. Did one of you leave the meeting? You don't mind sitting with him in the room, because Gordana Komic, as vice president of parliament, condemned this? Did she offer to resign? Did she offer to resign? Did one of you say - I will not be in this Alliance for Serbia. I don't want Zeljko Veselinovic to represent me as Belgraders. Well, neither one of you. Well, we'll talk about pensions of course we'll talk, but why are you ashamed of your leader? It is he who represents the Alliance for Serbia. (Alexandra Jerkov: Four minutes is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here, there are still women MPs who are in the Alliance for Serbia, who are very nice. (Alexandra Jerkov: Four and a half minutes of injury. I'll talk for 20 minutes because this is a topic above all topics. You have respected colleagues, Balsa Bozovic, who occasionally come to this House... (Balsa Bozovic: ATP Maja Gojkovic. ) And to these MPs, more importantly, the speech lasts up to two minutes, but you are not the subject of what I today have to read because of all women in Serbia even though I am disgusted. I'm sick of this. I am disgusted by this alliance of yours for Serbia and the person who is your chairman now. Councilman at the Belgrade City Assembly. (Alexandra Jerkov: five minutes.) ) Well, I was taught that Belgrade is the capital, that fine people live in Belgrade, educated, educated. Well, this is terrible. This is not for a two-minute speech, President, two-minute shoes, jeans, this is for the condemnation of all Serbia. For condemning you two, not throwing away. For condemning Vice-President Gordana Comic, who created the Women's Parliamentary Network. To condemn this Dvora MP who has to sit there in some Alliance for Serbia who, if opposed, will find some African-Americans threatening to rape a woman. Not to mention Diana Vukomanovic who doesn't say one word. She was in the left-wing party, in the SPS, she got into this. Well done, co-worker. Well done. As of today, the Alliance for Serbia has ended its career among Serbian women. I'm telling you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43101	I'll take four minutes from the MP's time. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I now set a regular break of one hour and continue work at 14 hours and 50 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is from a fellow MP, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43103	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, I would first of all like to point out that as far as education is concerned, Mr. Sarcevic is doing the best he can in his work than any minister in the area before him. Also, as a woman, I would once again condemn insults at the expense of Prime Minister Brnabic and I would like to say that all those who later condemn it, now that they are called, I would like to say that such a condemnation is not respected. They didn't judge when it was supposed to, so please don't talk about it now. We are witnessing the recovery of the Serbian economy today. The overall social economic situation today allows us to increase income and regulate the criteria for further improving the social situation of pensioners, who have suffered the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation. Thanks to the measures taken and the successfully-led economic policy, Serbia is now the second at the rate of growth in Europe with 4.9%. Last week's visits by the president of the Republic of Serbia to the People's Republic of China clearly show why recognitions should be given, as all European officials of the politics of Aleksandar Vukic do. In Bor, we have the brightest example of that. In 2003, mining gunship Basen Bor, who were assessed as hopeless and who tried to give four times, yes, you heard well that they were selling gifts, or selling them for indemnity, and all 5,000 workers sent them home, just as they sent 13,000 workers by selling companies from RTB Bor. Fortunately, their plan failed. Aleksandar Vukic was aware of the importance of this mine for eastern Serbia. He knew it was necessary to bring a serious strategic partner. However, it was first necessary to put Basen on its feet and make it attractive to business operators of the market. It was certainly a very difficult job that ultimately resulted in serious bids in the tender and, in the end, by signing a contract with our friends from China. This big investment by the Chinese company Zidjin Majing will not only keep Basen and all 5,000 jobs, but will allow Basescu to expand and develop. A large investment of nearly 1.5 billion dollars over the next six years, and production is planned to double over the next three years. An extremely significant investment for eastern Serbia and I am grateful to the president, because before him no one cared about the eastern part of Serbia and that is what citizens should know. The amendment of the PIO Act, among other things, proposes a fairer calculation of the amount of temporary retirement for those with a well-fused internship and that is also a good link for pine-based miners. They're touched by this. This has yet another advantage, which is that with more pension staff, we provide young people with jobs in RTB Bor. So, definitely eastern Serbia goes forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43104	Thank you. The word has been made by a fellow MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43105	Thank you. The reminders for both the public and, above all, we today consider 33 points of the agenda as one point and so that citizens know what it means, means that the MPs have been denied, that 33 times the possibility of talking about certain proposals by the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been reduced. When it comes to this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, there is something else we will be able to talk about on amendments, but the fundamental problem we want to draw public attention to, pensioners first of all, and to God and future pensioners is that this law provides that there is no longer the usual regular and in a certain manner established pension harmonisation, which, as far as we are concerned, is something that is absolutely inadmissible. It cannot be left to anyone to promise on an honorable word that pensions will increase according to what it says here, the regulations governing the budget and the budget system. We all know that we don't really know how to use it and how all the budgets have been used in the past 18 years. In 18 years, the National Assembly had only once here a debate on the Budgetary Law, and as long as we don't have such a law, we can't believe that what we are presented in public is really true. Statistical data, it's proven several times, too, isn't something we can really trust. It is known that national - statistics, my Dick, whatever I want, paints it. On Friday, the minister, now I am not sure whether Djordjevic or Sinisa Mali said such a hearty sentence – we will never forget our pensioners. We cannot trust "mothers" any minister or government. It is unserious, after all, that such a serious problem should not be precisely and in principle regulated by law. If you didn't like the model, you could have changed it, but you wouldn't have left it in the law to this possibility that pensions were going up, it's just not good. It is true that it is possible, as the ministers said, that pensions will increase I don't know 4%, 5%, 6%, etc. That's a possibility, but it's also a possibility that after this, there will never be an increase in pensions again. They can always say, there's no way in the budget, wait for a better time. So our insistence is that this law, we have submitted the amendment, in that sense, to change. When it comes to these two draft laws in the field of education, we already have more objections. First of all, when it comes to this Law on Higher Education, Amendments and Supplements, where deadlines are extended to students, to complete their studies by the end of the school year, we in the SRS think it is pointless to change this article in September of the 148th Act, and therefore we have proposed to amendments this time to delete all members, to remain only Article 17, but to be amended so that it is written in this article to allow students to study until the end of the study. As much as it will be, it depends on their will and their financial resources. Otherwise, education laws need to change everything seriously and bring new ones. These changes don't mean anything from time to time they're just creating even more confusion. This second Law on professions of particular interest in the conditions of their conduct, etc., I say, there is really no legal nor form, nor anything, but it is written in the explanation that the National Plan for the adoption of legal flows of the EU provides for the adoption of this law until Serbia enters the EU. Well, you're a little early, Minister. Neither will we enter the EU, nor is it possible to enter so soon, and who is bothering you now that we are dealing with this law? The EU seems to be a shortcut to you, rather than all those problems that shake up actually education in Serbia. The affair is getting lower. You know very well that the condition is nowhere near what you are trying to present here. The problems in schools are great, students are angry with teachers, students are fighting each other, drugs in schools are present, suspicious excursions are being conducted, our textbooks are being printed in Croatia, often in Croatian new talk. So, a lot of things to take care of, and now, as long as these are regulations, and then, of course, hurry up and change the regulations that this would be arranged for. I see it to you from the media these days, this 21st-century school, which is a priority, so you've been meeting with British Ambassador Dennis Kif, and this guy Claire Sirs from the British Council for the Western Balkans, etc. Now they're trying to get us back into the situation by some means, to get you into a situation where you have different archaics toward children. You've predicted here that using funds for this 21st-century school project you'll provide healthy food for children who are in an extended stay, and I'm asking you what about children who are not in an extended stay? She says this Claire Sirs needs kids at home to learn how to eat healthy food, and you obviously didn't tell her that in Serbia nearly half a million people are employed and work for a salary of as many as 27 thousand dinars, because it is a minimumer that is now current. Introduction of electronic logs. There are two problems. One is that the electronic diary is absolutely inapplicable in many schools. Believe it or not, and you should know that you have schools in Belgrade that aren't covered by the Internet, just parents who can't use electronic journals, and what's going on? Then parents come to school to read them data from an electronic journal. And what you have tried to explain here when it comes to the company that has provided software for this electronic diary, it is the Croatian, again the Croatian firm Tesla that connects with you because it used to do something similar for your private schools. Getting that software costs 1.6m euros. You explained that it had nothing to do with you, but we ask you, you did not answer that, how was the tender so that people who understand this well – no one could meet the terms of the tender, but the very firm, the Croatian firm Tesla? When it comes to these problems that are happening with the excursions, you ministers when something happens, you react when the public presses and then admit – yes, it happened; but you have a problem that you do not act preventively. Here, now you know what happened to the excursions. You were changing some of the directors because the teachers took on their own in an agreement with the parents of the children on a field trip, so we had this field trip of a teacher who took underage children from elementary school to Amsterdam and took them to Red Lantern Street. So it's big and serious scandals. Do you know that in schools you now come offers to teachers, class elders to organize the same or similar excursions and that directors wash their hands, because it's important for the directors to like you and they tell the teacher – do what you want, I don't stand behind it, but if they insist on parents, you organize it. You can't do that, Minister. You have to have, that the Ministry has put in schools professors and teachers know how they can and must behave. You also had interesting statements when it comes to peer violence, problems that are far more present in schools than are known in public. When that little girl was poisoned because her peers, her colleagues, put on her cattle preparations, you said on one show that it was just children's stupidity. That's inadmissible, Minister. You shouldn't have said that. What else is the problem? You only react when the public warns you. I ask you, if it hadn't been for two days on the front page for this unfortunate woman whose child had been harassed in the last few days, the school was "Rade Končar", would you have reacted? Your wife claims that she warned you that she wrote to you, but you didn't respond. It wasn't until two days she showed up on the front page of some newspaper that you moved that kid to another school. Problems, i.e. what is present these days, are the times when Gašo Knezevic as minister introduced a denunciation and when he was doing some of his experiments there, so the whole of Serbia was disgusted when he made the girls from elementary school throw the bras to the boys in some of their games and we really thought there was no further, but there is. What happens at the time of your ministry with these scenic pictures, this is something inadmissible, it just shouldn't have happened to you. You say about these pictures written in Croatian, which describe children oral and anal sex and scary pictures and even scarier words that would not be ashamed of any adult film author, you say it is not in your jurisdiction to contain these pictures. Minister Rasim Ljajic says he is not in the jurisdiction of his ministry either. So what's in your jurisdiction? Does this mean that they can appear, I don't know, T-shirts on which to be the letter "U" and "chashovnica" and what, the Ministry will only check the quality – yes, three percent of the elastic it says, can be sold. It's very unserious and you have to deal with this problem and eventually you have to solve it. The pictures that also caused the storm in the public refer to the pictures "The Rainbow Family", something that is also, above all, the opposite of our Constitution and what you have released, were written about it, but who cares. We are further away, we warned you before the summer break that you must resolve the issue of publishing textbooks. Our textbooks continue to be published by Croatian publishing houses, a certain Ante Zuzul, who was a close friend of Franjo Tudjman, one of the first HDZ financiers, and Daniel Zderic, also. They together, ministers, earn more than 30m euros a year because they sell our children textbooks full of printing mistakes, full of Croatian new talks, full of wrong history data. So it's a continuation of denacification and you have to take care of it and you have to face both the National Assembly and the public of Serbia. Of course, this doctoral story. You have to approach this more seriously, because what you're explaining is that establishing the credibility of diplomats and PhDs creates legal uncertainty is not true. Legal uncertainty creates false diplomas. Between a fake degree and a graduate student who studied for ten or fifteen years, I would always define myself for the one who studied for ten and fifteen years both from a professional and a moral point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43106	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43107	Well, I don't know if, Veronica, you followed all the papers, but anything that could've happened the blackest could've happened you picked up, networked how it suits you. I turned out to be so black that I'd resign most likely to have someone smarter than me. Because this all turns out to be so awkward that I don't know what to answer to first, as if we weren't living in the same country. Not to say it's crazy, but I'll say it's crazy. You've got a bunch of complaints here that are likely to be held by one ten ministers before me. If you thought in two years, I'd be able to solve all this, here, say that I won't be able to handle it in two years. So, we've passed a bunch of laws here, brought a bunch of rules. Do you think it's easy to change people's behavior and consciousness so entrenched and so used to it? That woman from Zemun, to begin with, she hasn't called us. I found out from "Kurira". It's got an SOS channel. The second day has already gone inspection and all anti-violence teams. That story has an epilogue. The child was transferred from school to school, investigating the responsibility of everyone in charge. But those kids who touched that boy got beat up the first day, got beat up by more niggers today. So that's not for sure Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic ordered, you know. That story is being explored as far as it goes, whose uncle came, who reported it to and what it says in the papers, so you're experienced women, you can't believe it just like that, hello for granted. I was talking about what the textbook market is. Well, I didn't make it up. You know, I didn't make it up at all. And here she's really trying to make every half of this news to make such a terrible truth, that I don't know what to say first. And I don't know if there's any point in answering you, because I feel like I'm just saying something to you, and I don't need to. I absolutely don't feel like it, and I wouldn't want to do it like that. A lot of what-what I've already answered, and about the e-data, and about anything. Of course, only 200 schools are planned, knowing that not everyone can use it, that there are many circumstances. It happened much faster in a quality way than expected. You still have a lot of clearance to get your parents a module, and there's a lot of stuff there. But if it's slow for you, in a year 600 schools, it's a record that's been achieved in Europe so far. Otherwise, I'm going to do it again, he chose "Telecom" in the tender. I can't set up one of those Telecom companies. And for your information, all schools are online. We managed to achieve this last year by introducing information. Around all these paintings, you must know that I have not brought any regulations that the duchy is a state to himself. When it comes to education, my powers are minor. Especially, I can't kindergarten in Jukov to tell you what to buy in the library and keep it there as supplemental literature. So it only happens when we find out. The powerful textbooks we called upon were published here in 2014. So I'm really going to make a bigger crusade against everything they got. I think I'm in the lead. At that rate, I promise no one. If there's anyone smarter, better, let whoever find him find him. But let me tell you, it really isn't right, because at least the Ministry of Education, not personally, is making an extremely hard effort to fix this story, it's very nationally defined. You heard that a unit was formed for national programs, that it was returned to Cyrillic law as protected, and a series of long topics we talked about here. So it's not right that you're just pulling out something that's written in the paper somewhere and that's making some bad impression. If that's what you say, I don't need a second to sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43108	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43109	This isn't about something that was written in the papers, Minister, it's about facts. You didn't first meet with the problem of getting textbooks, we talked to you many times, and this school year certainly shouldn't have waited the same way, that these Croatian publishers mechanized in schools, offered bribes, that teachers took bribes to take textbooks that don't match our children. You should know that the fourth grade of elementary school, unfortunately, the high percentage of children finishes, when they come in the fifth they don't know basic accounting up to 100, they don't know the multiplication table and they don't read, they do the script. Your inspectors, instead of doing a serious job when you send them out to the field, they play hardball, they terrorize teachers there, and they won't seriously deal with it, possibly to help solve a problem. You mentioned some uncle who beat someone, etc. Well, we warned you when you passed the law, we submitted the amendment. Why didn't you accept it? We told you that what kind of uncles, heads with jeeps, who have money to turn school, that thanks to that law and the possibility of being members of school boards, that they're actually heads of school. All you have to do is listen to us and accept some serious amendment, so you have no reason to complain afterwards. All the schools on the Internet? That's not true. That's not true. They're not covered on the Internet. Maybe you pay them, or they pay the monthly subscription. I'm telling you, go to schools on the edge of Belgrade, you'll see how many schools don't have Internet access, and they have that electronic diary. You say – we think that slow 200 schools are experimental for an electronic journal. We think there's a lot of more pressing jobs. We know, and you know that we have schools that still have outside toilets, that we have a lot of schools that don't have gyms, and we want to fight to keep our kids out of drugs. So there's a lot of things, Minister, that can be done, and the laws when you change, listen sometimes to someone who's well-intentioned, above all to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43110	Dear MPs, you have received the resignation of MP Ivan Manojlovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Ivan Manojlovic on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43111	Just a few more sentences. You must know, we've passed the inspection law here. The Republic Inspectors have 27 for all levels of education. These, when you say something like this, you need to know that they're bar inspectors, who are very quickly networking and making a line with whoever you want. It's only when we get information that there's not a job done right, then Republic inspectors come out. Because in education is a major decentralisation done before and expecting me to handle it all, I mostly have a lot of things that I still don't have the authority to do. Take it easy with some laws and pay them back. What you say about toilets. Well, we solved mostly those problems. For your information, I have said more than two times – 870 objects in Serbia have been built in two years. It was spent only on the republican money of 11.3 billion dinars, and from a bar somewhere near five billion. So that's one renaissance when it comes to repairs from toilet roofs, halls and everything we're talking about. If you'd followed that part I've already exhibited, you'd at least be commending something.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43112	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43113	I'm advertising Article 107. Mrs Gojkovic, I would ask that, by respecting this Rules of Procedure, in particular this provision of the Rules of Procedure, you should warn at least once of any of the ministers that he must respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure when addressing the MPs. Here we have seen so much privatization of relations with MP Verico Radet that simply a man cannot believe. The Minister speaks to the Prophet, if it is you. She is the Belief of Radeta, but she is a People's MP and she speaks to or - Mrs Radeta or with - Ambassador Radeta. Secondly, the minister honors the MP as he informs himself and if he informs himself from the papers, then he has no reason to answer. Ministers are there to answer every question, every remark, every comment of the MPs, and they must once learn that they are obliged to respect both the MPs and the National Assembly, not to have the Assembly and the MPs in office offended by the honor or vanity of individual ministers. Mrs. Gojkovic, you know it best and you can stop such ministers and address them at some point. It's really too much to listen to with how much arrogance they're talking about and how much they're blackmailing this assembly by saying -- if that's the case, then I don't need to be here. Who will have a headache, whether you will be or not, and how long will you be? It will be decided by the majority, but you must respect the dignity of every MP and address with respect to every MP. Are you hurt? Is the correct information, it's not true, it's a matter of discussion, we need to discuss it here, to convince the MPs that they are not well informed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43114	I believe the minister had no intention of insulting any MPs in this House. He said -- if that's true, I shouldn't be here. In that sense, otherwise I would interrupt it, it's not hard for me. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43115	Minister, you mentioned the inspection law and you complain that you have few inspectors. Do you remember the amendments to the SRS and our discussions at the time? You must never complain about a small number of inspectors, not you, not any other minister. Why do you continue to hold a limited reception of people into the countries of organs, where necessary? You have to have enough inspectors, and not just an education inspector. So that's the problem you have to solve in the government. It means nothing to us to answer - I only have 27 inspectors. Inspectors come, I don't know, from Blatz to Belgrade, from Nis to Belgrade, and these inspectors, unfortunately, some kind of complex heals on teachers, colleagues who have much more work experience than they do, can't behave and can't do the work of inspectors. We have information that the Ministry has been notified of such matters several times. Does that get to you? It's something again that you have to solve in the Ministry itself. You say how much school you fixed, renovated. We're not saying it wasn't there, but do you know that there are still students in Serbia on foot, that there are still schools in Serbia that are about to collapse on children's heads. There are, unfortunately. The whole of Serbia has to be brought into as much a decent state as it is. We don't mind digitization. On the contrary, but you have Vranjska Banja, our tourist center, which is not covered by the entire Internet or any network of mobile phones, let alone our remote villages, where there are no conditions... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43116	Thank you. The word is Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43117	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers with Associates, honourable peoples MPs, among the proposed laws which are the subject of the parliamentary debate of this assembly session, I would like to refer specifically to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I consider this bill important and necessary, both in order to address the potential, practical problems of students who, on 30 September, are due for the completion of studies according to the programmes under which the studies started and for further regulation of the legal framework for future comprehensive reform of higher education. I say further regulation of the legal framework, given that the applicable legislation was passed last year, and now by adopting the amendments proposed by this law, in line with the observed shortcomings and the need to specify certain legal provisions, a comprehensive legislative framework will be provided as a basis for the development and improvement of the higher education system in Serbia. Without a doubt, the goal is well organised, efficient and high quality education in line with available resources and best domestic and foreign practical solutions. I therefore believe that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law should be considered in the context of continued and intensive work to find both an optimal and comprehensive legislative framework for higher education reforms. It is neither easy nor simple task, which is understandable, given that today in the higher education system in Serbia, according to the Ministry of Education, valid accreditation has 121 universities, five higher schools of academic studies and 62 higher schools of vocational studies. The total number of accredited study programmes on our higher education institutions is 2,154. It is estimated that our student community today accounts for over 200,000 students at all ages and all levels of studies, and some 2/3 of them are academic students, and 1/3 are students of vocational studies. So it is clear that colleges, higher schools, study programmes, student and overall academic community are, by representation and by potential, an important resource of our education, as well as the overall social and economic development of our country, but a resource that must be monitored, analysed, developed and promoted in accordance with the best experiences and available opportunities. The most important objectives of higher education reform are to improve the quality of studies, but also better integration of higher education with the economy and other institutions of the system. In that sense, I think it is an extremely good recommendation that each of our higher education institutions should have established an employer's advice, as a direct bond of economic operators with higher education. This is particularly important for the academy and higher schools of vocational studies, given that their most important mission is to ensure that students acquire practical knowledge and skills that will enable them to enter the labour market immediately after their studies are completed and start working in a specific area. This is why professional studies are also particularly appreciated and popular in developed Western European countries. For example, in Germany and Austria, experts are more easily employed after completing vocational studies. For these experts, employers are more often decided because they are the ones who are trained to be able to get involved immediately in the business of some factories, companies, companies, companies, institutions and the like. Why? Because these experts have acquired the necessary practical knowledge through the studies. The teachers also participated in their education directly from practice and those with great business experience. In addition, high vocational schools there co-operate with a large number of local and foreign companies, helping students find jobs and practices, and these places are usually their permanent employment later on. Starting with this, I believe that, with the establishment of employers' advice on our higher education institutions, the link between higher education with the economy and other system institutions will be significantly improved. I think it is extremely important, because our students must also get new and greater opportunities to gain practical skills and work experience, and after completing their studies and a much greater chance of working in the profession. In addition to the important objective of this bill, various college and high school support measures are further stimulated for greater openness, for student mobility and for work on attracting foreign students. In this context, the proposal is to significantly reduce and simplify procedures for the approval of study programmes in foreign languages or languages of national minorities. The proposal is also for students participating in international mobility programmes to be able to transfer the ENPB points between different study programmes. By the way, I believe that the policy of attracting foreign students is extremely important, both for the mobility of students and for the internationalisation of domestic higher education, but also for the great opportunities to encourage and assist social and economic development in this way. What's especially important when we talk about foreign students is that they are welcome to us anyway. Among other things, because of the fact that years ago we have more than a number of accredited studies available, than the number of newly enrolled students. So, after enrolment, the new generation of students, a significant number of places on accredited study programmes, remains incomplete. There's more reason. There are also newly formed universities and high schools, but also negative demographic trends that are particularly felt in education. That this is so clear is the data that from year to year fewer newborn children and fewer newly enrolled students. Starting from this, but given some other indicators, potential conditions and higher education opportunities in Serbia, I believe it is extremely good, which the Ministry of Education has launched a new project called – study in Serbia, with the goal of returning foreign students to our universities. I say the return of foreign students for the reason that there were once many students, foreign citizens from many countries of the world and from different continents. According to data, around 20,000 foreign students studied at universities in Serbia in the late 1980s. At the time, our universities and our universities were well known and recognized as institutions that educate top experts. This good practice, unfortunately, was interrupted in the 1990s due to known political developments related to the disintegration of our former state community. After 2000, there were several attempts by foreign students to return to our universities in a significant number, but the results were modest. For example, in 2005, there were only 184 foreign students at Belgrade University. Today, in all our high school institutions, again according to the Ministry of Education, there are 1470, more than in 2005, but far from being satisfied with this number and we consider this number minor. That is why I said that I think it is extremely good that the ministry launched the project – study in Serbia, I believe that you will have the support and necessary logistics and other ministries and government in general, so that foreign students, in addition to quality studies, will also be offered good accommodation, living conditions, simplified procedures for obtaining residence visas, but also easier to resolve other administrative issues. I hope you will succeed in your plan to fully revive this project, school 2019, 2020, and that our universities and our universities will again be attractive to foreign students. I just want to mention briefly, I think that it is both important and important, the proposal for this law, which is that the legal offices of questions related to the selection of Serbian language lecturers at high school institutions abroad. This is extremely important, because the goal speaks enough about it, and the goal is for the Serbian language to survive in these institutions and to represent itself in a truly professional and responsible manner. And, finally, I want to say that I, like all my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, support the proposal to extend the deadline for the completion of the study to our, under quotes, old students, confident that this way we are helping and encouraging all of them to make additional efforts and to complete their studies for the benefit of our community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43118	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43119	More because of her colleague Snow White, and for the public to say that the job of getting back a large number of students is a very big job, it has to start from the beginning. Even the number came up to 30,000 in time. But aside from the interest of ambassadors and people from those countries who are now coming to Serbia, who have studied here and who are our personal ambassadors in those countries, they see the difference between what their children now receive from other foreign universities that come to their countries, in favour of ours. We are now at the government level doing a lot of work to increase infrastructure. I will be able to inform parliament when we come to this topic, which is the need to increase the capacity of many of our universities, not only Belgrade University, but also Niski, Novosadski and Kragujevacka. In that part, a catalogue was made thanks to the Tempus Office, divided into over 56 countries. People from the Foreign Ministry, the MUP, got involved. There was also a need to resolve stay and status and visas and a series of other details, but also the construction of student accommodation. So there are certain investment funds, and that's one serious, huge job that's been started, and I think we're going to finance through the Sremski Karlovci project. A group has already formed for the Sremski Karlovci. The government has decided to make it three ministries, culture, education and tourism, and these days we will have a chance to start doing a new law on the Sremski Karlovci. The old law is from 1991, there is no component of culture. Here is our partner, the Serbian Orthodox Church, which has a majority part of that historic space, and then there is the design of a new campus, accommodation facilities, and so far there are some 24 study programs in English, and that is something that is neither Belgrade nor New Sad, but a superuniversity that will look like the world's famous universities. So I think that the Ministry of Education team, along with other ministries and government, is very much in place and very much is done. We have made contacts with many people in different countries, we have particularly renewed relations with the Greeks, we have excellent relations with the Chinese, we speak intensively with the Russians during October on the subject, we have already reached certain arrangements with the Turks. Also, the regions of West and North Africa, the Middle East, are the following regions with which we are talking intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43120	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. You have one minute and 29 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43121	Thank you. In the first part of the debate, Minister Djordjevic did not comment. A lot later he said that I was a spokesman for the Fisclave Council, and I didn't get that chance at the replica even though I was looking for it, but here I'm going to take it. The fiscal council is the government's advisory body. This congregation chose him not so long ago, this congregation majority chose him and she supports the government. If he thinks the Fiscal Council wrongly advises him to change counsellors. It's not in this debate that we're having the second day, the point is whether the mathematical rule that the Fiscal Council proposes to coordinate pensions is more than government and government estimates. This is about predictability, the existence of pre-known and existing rules that the rule of law is consistently and unselectively adhered to. A more betraying rule, as generous as you can be. I'll give it when I estimate it - that's not the rule, that's mercy. This is about having to divulge a delusion that is knowingly placed. Dear pensioners, the government doesn't give you pensions, it's not the government's money, it's your money that you've been saving by law enforcement in the country, you've given it to the state for management. The government runs it, can't give it to you, can only embezzle it and bring it back, as she's taken it for the past four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43122	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43123	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister, Mr Sarčević, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, the Honorable Members of the People's Parliament, I will today speak in the principle of amendments to the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. The relevant Law on Higher Education of 2017 has made an agreement with European standards in this area, but as is usually the case, in the course of the application of this law, the need for concrete defining certain provisions of these laws relating to the work and selection of the authorities of the higher school institution has been observed, in order to overcome the ambiguities created in the transitional period during which the higher school institutions agreed their sublaws. In particular, the problem that needs to be addressed by this law is the problem of the functioning of the governing body and the bodies of higher education institutions. To be even clearer, the Law on Higher Education was adopted in 2017 and entered into force only on 7 October 2017, in transitional provisions it allowed all elected authorities to complete their mandate according to the rules under which they were elected. Some higher education institutions have misused the period of entry into force of this law, so on 7 October 2017, and selected new authorities in accordance with the old law of 2005, which delayed the application of this law for another three years. Such behaviour threatened to compromise the reputation of higher education institutions, which was also confirmed by current events, despite the warning of the resolute minister of non-academic behaviour of a number of representatives of the body of higher education institutions, means the rector and dean, who hid themselves from conflicts of interest under the roof of the university's autonomy and rejected recommendations from the Anti-Corruption Agency, brought down the reputation of their university and their respective colleges. In Article 8. The draft law, which is amended and complemented by Article 64, is chosen by a secret vote by the body of operations, thus reducing the possibility of trade to a minimum by impact on members of the council. In this way, this matter is the same for all higher education institutions in Serbia. Article 16 The bill is prescribed for higher education institutions in which authorities were elected under the 2005 Higher Education Act, and their mandate expired on 1 June 2009, to cover the procedure for selecting new authorities of higher education institutions and by launching the selection procedure, no later than 60 days after the entry into force of this law. As far as Article 6 is concerned, Proposal for a law, but relating to Article 44. The University of Belgrade is declared a higher education institution of national importance, as it is highly ranked on the world rankings of universities, so-called. The Shanghai lists, but it would be unfair not to mention that in addition to the University of Belgrade, which in physics from 151 to 200 places, in mathematics between 201 to 300 targets, then in chemistry, biology, agriculture, veterinary, food technology, except in Belgrade's latest ranking, other universities have found themselves. The University of Nis is among the 401 to 500 best in chemical engineering and mathematics, the University of Novi Sad, between 101 and 150 places in the field of food technology and the University of Kragujevac, between 401 and 500 places in the field of mathematics. I particularly underline this, because this is how the University of Belgrade is defined as a declarative character and does not give rise to any special status, compared to other higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43124	Thank you. The word is Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43125	I thank the esteemed president. Gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I can't surprise myself all day. All those who have denied us the right to live, not to receive and to retire, today raise some questions. I'm surprised. They talk about acquired rights, talk about how someone took something. No, I don't. To my great joy, the SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic lead a responsible policy, primarily economic policy, a policy that thinks about the future, as Mr. Minister of Education thinks about young people and thinks about the future. We as an organisation, we as a party, think about Serbia's future. We're thinking that tomorrow someone's gonna have to take a pension, he thinks tomorrow someone's gonna have to take a salary. Unfortunately, those who sold out everything and gave it away in 2000 boast here how they increased pensions 10, 12, 13%, yes, but what do we have left of industry? Is there one single company that worked until 2000? Where are your big systems? Lee's just had crocodile tears around the PKK. Thank God we sold the PKK, that we gave someone to work, to create. You only knew how to destroy, sell and now regret for a while and ask for something to come back. What do you want back? What are you offering us? What did you offer us? We had promises. Yes, in 2000, there were promises, 500 euros waiting at the Hungarian border. Just to drop that soulless regime and everything will be fine. Unfortunately, we fell, we fell on our knees. The Serbian Progressive Party is returning all of this slowly. We can't get it all back, we can't bring back the destroyed Magnochrom, no, so it's been sold out, it's been cut up, it's been cut up, and it's been sold out in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, because there's still a mine that used to be owned by Magnochroma and that's where it's being done. How did it travel - I don't know, but I do know that at the time of this heartless privatisation, what about 400,000 fired people? What about those four thousand in the King in Magnochroma, two and a half thousand in the Car Factory? What about all those companies in the trade, the big ones in the old Yugoslavia, "Stotex", "Stroteks", "Straft", "Gložgara", and you're telling me something. The pensioners have suffered and thank them, they have suffered. All of our old people knew that by giving up one piece of their pension this four years, they were creating for the future to take care of their grandchildren, to think of them. We open factories, and someone says, "Yes, the wires are braided." You didn't open anything, you closed everything. Let the wires get wet, and we'll make young informers, young engineers. My greatest wish will also be to open up some production plants where hundreds of electric engineers will work, but what gives me in particular the right to be right is to just start a plant called Leoni, which is being opened in the Kingdom and work hastily to prepare the works for the construction of that factory. Although they will start working in a year, they have already launched a competition for 20 graduate electric and machine engineers who will work, who will go to training, who will meet these young people who will start working tomorrow with the production process. Once again, someone will be smart, and they will say, "What does an electric engineer have to do with a wire braiding?" Well, that electric engineer has to learn the process of production to pass on knowledge, and he needs to know everything that's going on in the process of production. Thank the pensioners, and we will continue to work and create, and we will make some good Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43126	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43127	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us with proposals of legislation that certainly affect the improvement of citizens' standards, particularly pensioners, but also laws relating to the further economic development of the Republic of Serbia, the increased trade exchange, on social security agreements between Serbia and the People's Republic of China. Also, there are laws on the agenda that contribute to further improving education through extending the opportunities for students who have not completed their studies under the old programme, and there are approximately four thousand of them. I have to say that in the area of education, root changes have been made, that root changes have been made, above all, when it comes to issues of dual education. What I particularly want to congratulate you on, Mr. Minister, is to return the education process to the educational process and to place the emphasis that educational institutions are, apart from education, and both educational institutions are networked and in partnership with parents, but also with other institutions at local level. What I want to go back to and what I want to put into the focus of my exposure is amendments and additions to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act. It is amazing that today, from some MPs of the yellow company in various forms, we have heard different criticisms of this law. I must, for the sake of Serbian citizens, remind myself that in 2012, they brought the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore all citizens and pensioners before the financial collapse. They did not leave behind funds that could be further paid off. They're the ones who fired 400,000 workers. They are the ones who have compromised the basic human right of Serbian citizens, which is the right to work, but also the right to compulsory health care, because through unpaid taxes and contributions to pension-inhabited insurance and health care workers did not have the opportunity to treat. They're the ones who left 30,000 legally invisible persons behind, mostly Roma. It is they, or Gilas, who carried out the biggest transport of Roma from Belgrade, putting them on buses and moving them south to Serbia, allegedly because they had no residence. They are those who four times in 2008, for cheap political points, four times increased pensions, and imagine how, respected citizens, on behalf of borrowing, by taking commercial loans at the highest possible interest rates of up to 12%. Who had to pay it back? Of course, citizens, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of course pensioners. They're the ones who left behind double-digit inflation, 12.9% inflation. They're the ones who left 25.9% of the unemployed behind. By contrast, by the responsible policy of the Serbian Progressive Party, its President Alexander Vukic, responsible fiscal policy, responsible economic policy, we have come to a situation today such as the surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the last three years is in surplus, that inflation within the borders of European countries, or about 2%, is the lowest in the last 20 years, i.e. unemployment has been reduced to 11.9%. Of course, pensioners have borne a great burden on the fiscal consolidation measure and are grateful to the Serbian Progressive Party and of course that the country's economic progress should be felt by pensioners. And they'll all feel it with their paid October check. Pensions will continue to increase, as the only way to achieve sustainability of pension and disability insurance is to improve the economy and exactly progress in the economic respect of the Republic of Serbia, and this is what is happening from year to year. I would like to point out that the Serbian Progressive Party will support all of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43128	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43129	President-in-Office, gentlemen ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will try in a few minutes, as long as it allows me, to try to make sure that the citizens who are following this session are overly resuming and peeling the essence of what is actually going on here, as my colleagues today during the discussion tried to draw attention to a few things. First, when citizens hear that news is coming from the Assembly that a pension adjustment formula is being abolished, so we read the Minister's reports of a few hours that he can't then interpret into a clear answer, not to us but to the citizens, they might think it's a different way of standardizing something that should be legal matter, but actually means something completely next. Citizens know very well, especially our pensioners, that so far in the state of Serbia, whatever government was in the previous period, pensions have been harmonised against inflation, to price growth, to economic growth, and that today the Serbian Progressive Party is being kicked out of the law that it will legally comply with what, rather than talking to some abstract norm called the financial sustainability of the pension-inhabitation fund, the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund. What does that really mean? It means that this, naked, government of the Serbian Progressive Party says that the will of one party and one man is more important than the law and that pensions and pensions will depend on the will, on the mercy of a man, not on what the law commits them to. If we accept that we are accomplices here, you must know very well, MPs, colleagues and deputies of the government, that by voting "for" you will vote against the rule of law, against the rule of law, against the fact that pensioners who have spent their entire working life as responsible workers, worked on their jobs and who, by paying each month contributions to their own pension, expected that when they leave at age, instead of spending that age in a way that is worthy of man, they see what a man and what a party will determine and how much pension they will be. This must not and cannot be a country where the pension of any pensioner will be determined by one party, the current and current government, not the law. That's what this is about. If this wasn't just something that I or my colleagues were telling you today, a colleague of Bozovic, a colleague of Aleksandra Jerkov, I will remind you exactly what the ministers are saying, as the former prime minister says and today the president of Serbia. I am sorry that there is no Minister Dr. Mali, who showed two amazing things a few days ago, when he said, I quote, because this is something I'm really not capable of inventing -- "they don't have what citizens want to worry about, because the government doesn't make political decisions, pensions will increase and more if the results do." The fact that the government minister does not know that the government is making political decisions, but thinks that I will make economic decisions and not pay attention to it, but that it is discreet and that these abstract norms – when the financial results make it possible, will increase pensions. Who decides that? Who determines whether the financial results have been achieved and does this mean that unless the envisaged financial results are achieved that pensions may be reduced? I repeat, this must not be a country where decisions will be made in place of the law on the basis that one party and one man, president of Serbia, at the moment, determines such a thing. The president tells pensioners today – thank you, pensioners, I will write them all a letter. Excuse me, please, that's what he said he would do as president of the Serbian Progressive Party. I question the president of the Serbian Progressive Party – how did the Serbian Progressive Party get data on all pensioners in Serbia, under one? Two, the president of Serbia has nothing to thank the pensioners for because no one asked them to take away what their property is, what they've been doing all their lives, but his job, or the government's job and its majority, is to get those pensions back to the citizens. We come up with another thing where instead of responsible social policy, something called an increase in monetary retirement, which is a completely naked marketing and pre-election trick that the Serbian Progressive Party is going to say at some point – well, now the results have been achieved, very great, before the elections, so you will get an increase, instead of leading a responsible social policy, because pension is not charity, pension is something people have earned. Pensions aren't government money, they're citizens' money you're deploying. In the end, what's important and what I think is the essence, Minister, I ask you for an answer, the citizens listen to this. Can you tell us exactly where exactly in the amendments and the laws, in which particular member, exactly where the position stands when you're going to pay the citizens back the amount of pensions they suffered during this reduction? When are you gonna get your pensions back, what time and from what means?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43130	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43131	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow MPs, for the sake of the public and for trying to disabling the public about how there is an exclusive right, first, to specify where it says that the formula is being abolished. That's one thing. Because exactly there is a part of the law that speaks when the formula is applied, it means by what basis, but it also exists in the budget of the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia that pensions must not and should not be linked to a gross social product that is 11%, with 11.1% of us with increases. So when economic growth is greater than 4% by the end of the year then we can apply the formula. We cannot apply formulas, so we can pay the salaries of 13.4% of gross social product, endanger Serbia's budget, raise credits, because we are one responsible government. Also today, representatives of the IMF together with the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance in negotiations on a precautionary arrangement that takes care of the fact that we are ultimately responsible for our finances. So that's one thing. The country's socially responsible policy is that we must not endanger the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with irresponsible decisions. Today we give out of the budget to the PIO fund to pay for pension increases 28%, and in your time it was 48%. So that's why no state, no investor wanted to come to Serbia because they owed the future of their children with your irresponsible policy. So, don't place false truths on pensioners who people are extremely responsible for what they've done both SNS and Vukic in the past year and how they've provided responsible and sustainable funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43132	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43133	Article 107 has been injured. I just wanted for the sake of the public and for my fellow Members of Parliament to clarify this part of the formula. I can't believe that colleague Vidinovic abuses the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the general public and all those who watch the National Assembly. I expected her to say what is true as a representative of the social democratic option in parliament. So we're obliged to tell the truth, and you know for a fact that the formula is not applied solely for one single reason, that 40% of those pensioners who receive minimum pensions, so that they can increase pensions. It is the only truth and I ask you not to abuse it when it comes to further assembly debate, because it is about abuse of feelings and the rights of our most bitter citizens, our seniors, grandparents who have minimum pensions. This is the way to increase your minimum pensions. I can't believe that you're against it and this is how you say it and tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the ruling majority intends to abuse something, manipulate it. Of course, we don't live in communism, we live in a market economy, in a capitalist society, and as you can see things, we have economic growth in the first six months of 4.9%. Of course we're going to raise our pensions, of course we're going to raise our salaries in the public sector, and I'm just asking you to speak the truth in this esteemed home, and we're all working together in the interests of the oldest citizens, not to say for certain political points what we ourselves know is incorrect, that it's not true and that it doesn't go in favour of our citizens, especially if I ask you to be sensitive when pensioners, there can be no difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43134	Thank you. Do you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43135	I just want to tell you one thing, no matter how hard the opposition works, pensions won't match 1% but 4.5.6% and more percent as much as that hurts. That's the real truth for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43136	According to the Rules of Procedure, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43137	Thank you, President. On the same basis that your colleague Marinkovic received his word saying that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was, in fact, explaining, trying to instruct me in how I should speak, which is sweet, my colleague. A good attempt that failed at your very beginning. You have called on us to speak the truth, and if that is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then in the most drastic way possible you have violated the breach of the Rules of Procedure by saying something that is completely false. I quote what this ruling majority has brought to us and Serbian citizens here, which is that the government is transferring from the government's authority to decide on harmonising pensions to achieving the financial sustainability of the system. I ask, and I see that you have qualified as someone who is quite informed, you or Ministers answer me if you are able to at least answer this question – what does financial sustainability mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43138	Well, since you haven't said a word to me in a minute or a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured, and you've started communicating with everyone in the O.R., which is also not intended to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Maya Vidinovic: Please let me finish.) ) The word has a folk MP, Stanja Compirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43139	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a set of draft laws on amendments and additions in front of us remind us of the time we live in, of the challenges ahead, of the burden we have managed to overcome thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's policy, his desire to build us a stable society in which we live better. The austerity measures have been implemented with great efforts by citizens and pensioners, which will cease to be valid on 30 September 2018 by the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid, which will lead to an increase in pensions. The main objective of reforming pension and disability insurance, which has been implemented since 2002 in several phases, 2003, 2005, 2010 and 2014 was to create conditions for the long-term, economic sustainability of the pension system, legal security and better social status of the current and future generations of pensioners. The reform measures have raised the age limit for retirement for both genders to 65 years of age for men, i.e. the gradual rise of women's age to 65 years by six months a year. The conditions for obtaining and exercising the right to a disability pension have been tightened, early retirement has been introduced with permanent pension cuts, strengthened conditions for family pensions. The Law on Amendments and Supplements, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, gave very positive results that allowed for further planning of amendments and amendments to the law to remove the negative effects of the law mentioned for individual pensioners. Issuing the proposed changes and additions, I will list some of the members who have led to the particular changes in the pension account. In the PIO fund, over one third of those who opt for an independent contribution to pension and disability insurance. These same contributions are not regularly paid. By amending this provision, the property of the insurance undertaking shall not cease unless the contribution made is paid within six months of maturity and at the earliest on the day on which the contribution was paid, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty and efficiency. Article 4 has also been amended to amend the provision in order to protect employees who do the most difficult work and whose internship is accounted for with an increased duration of 12/18. These persons are reduced to 50 years of age, and if they have worked on those jobs at the time of termination and have spent at least two thirds of their working hours on it. Also, a major problem will be removed from the adoption of temporary solutions due to a lack of data on the average salary for a year that is eligible for retirement. Overcoming the annual personal coefficient for that year so that no end of the calendar year is expected. Also, a temporary solution of no more than three years for the preliminary solution is being made. One of the newspapers to be contained in Articles 7 and 42 is to be changed and to correct injustice to persons who have not been established in the home records. Instead of the average republican earnings, i.e. minimum earnings, the average annual personal coefficient determined according to the earnings that existed in the parent records of the Republic of the PIO Fund for each insurance undertaking would be taken separately and, thus, at the very least corrected the injustice. In particular, it refers to insurance companies in the Kosovo and Metohija areas as former professional military personnel. The provisions also propose a change in the method of calculating so-called. Penalties for insurance undertakings whose insurance training is accounted for with an increased duration and which exercise the right to early retirement pension in reducing pension levels. Since these insurance insurance companies are reduced by an age limit depending on the degree of increase in the insurance rate, it is proposed that the insurance foams are counted against this reduced age limit for each specific insurance company with a well-favoured internship instead of as well as for the general age limit of 65 years of life, so that if the insurance company worked 30 years on jobs 12/14, it means, the benefited working time, it has the conditions to exercise the right to early retirement pension, and at the same time it has 56 years of life, the reduction would be calculated against the reduced age limit, which is 62 years of life. So, all of these newspapers that I have listed in one part of this law that provide for their additions to PIO will provide greater legal certainty for pensioners and lead to the number of reductions in temporary solutions and the abolition of the Law on the temporary regulation of pension payments, which is the result of positive, economic movements and positive effects on those who have borne the highest burden on our society, so, to bear the burden of savings, these are our pensioners. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the amendment and addition of the Law on PIO in the voting day, as well as the Law on Higher Education, which will also contribute to the conclusion of our students who have started their studies within the legal deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43140	The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43141	Dear colleagues, as we know, these laws have arrived by emergency procedure. Probably one of the most important laws is this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, but given the fact that you, as you represent the public, pensioners, future pensioners and the complete nation, were so urgent, it also says that the minister did not appear at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. I must confess, listening to the debate on Friday and today, that much better was the debate at the Committee's session, although it was not attended by representatives of the Ministry when the SRS MPs asked questions. They didn't answer. We're out of answers. We had a better discussion with representatives of the ruling parties who are members of the Committee than we could hear on Friday and today, because today we could hear who's dressing up, who's more guilty, who's cheating on the people, who's tweeting, who's been writing on social networks, and we forget that what we really need is a quality and sound debate. We couldn't expect a healthy debate because of the fact that you didn't hear the request from the Alliance of Pensioners both Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, who asked for a little more time to get to know these changes and additions, because what remains really unexplained until the end is modality. As we know, earlier years the modality of increasing pensions was simply precise by law and then we had different modes. The previous ones, let's say, for 20 years, there have been different proposals and legislative solutions, whether they're costs plus income, whether they're related to inflation, whether they're increasing GDP. There were, I say, different models. Often these models have been changed, because, as we know, from the "Buldozer Revolution" that happened to Serbia, Serbia is managed by the IMF and their representatives, who, of course, aim to be constantly engaged and earning their salaries, in their interest, forced the states to borrow as much as possible, to take as many credits as possible so that they could take their process of disbursement and decommissioning a certain state and end up, or never to the end, so that they would always be engaged, and now we can say that this applies to some 0.3 which you, by one new member of the law, have re-determined, or complemented, which we don't know what it means. Does this mean that you already know in advance that next year will be more in the budget? We don't know if 2020's going to be 0.6. What is absolutely inconceivable is that the formula is being abolished, and giving the government the discretionary ability to decide on pension coordination and the increase itself is completely the opposite of what you are publicly pushing for. Your authority, since you took over, has been saying that you often compare yourself with EU countries, countries that are highly developed and that have developed economies, and so the question is, I ask you too – which developed country in the world has this model that you have proposed or perhaps think that Morocco and Algeria are some countries whose model we should see and which should be the way for Serbia to lead a quality economic policy? What we could hear on the Committee, and since we couldn't hear the representatives of the ministry, my criticism and speech will be more based on the fact that I don't know that someone's not clear, and every moment we're trying to impose a flossula that's untrue, which is that the accounting period is returning to the level of 2014. I think that's when we proved to the board that it's impossible because you said then that what you found, as you said then, when you found the cash register that you found, then you have to call the IMF, which, I say again, is nothing more than an exorcisor of ordinary debts. What we need to specify is why and how to believe, because here we are talking about an opposition that needs to be presented and worked in the interest of its people. We have accepted and said that this is a historic moment, given that through the economic and economic development of the investments that have arrived, and that I must again support the chairman's committee, which, I quote, has said that the financials have mostly come from the east, and not from the west, I am glad that it is because the government of Alexander Vukic has finally realized that the best policy of the SRS, which is that our friends are in the east, that we should work with the east. I remind you that more than 15 years ago, Professor Vojislav Seselj, after the "Buldozer of Revolution", said that we should turn to the Russian Federation, that the Russian Federation would stand on its feet and that it should work closely with China. At that time most MPs laughed at such a policy, and today everyone is proud to talk about investments coming from both China and the Russian Federation and from other countries from the east and again, if nothing else, one serious finding – Serbia absolutely does not need this steep road to the EU and when we talk about big investments, you admit that they come from where they should come from. There's one thing we need to figure out. It can't be an increase. We can talk about how the accounting period is returning to 2014, and then when you return, then to the new modes, which must not be left in any way as a discretionary right of the Government, but must be legally resolved. It is known how it is solved, as has been resolved so far, because in the bill of law nowhere, when you speak, does not say what you consider to be financial sustainability. We really think that once you say you care about the interests of the people, because, as he said in the introduction, I am free to say, a lecture, an economic lecture, Vojislav Seselj on Friday, and that is that we as a state and you as a government must fight to make pensions, the least minimum, the bigger. It is then a serious form of social policy, not as you presented us in the new law, because you boast that pensions of 25,000 dinars will now go up by 13.3%, and those who have pensions of over 120,000 are only 8.4%. Indeed, it is disturbing to say so, if you really mean it. How many people are there who receive a pension of 120,000 dinars and more, and how many who received 25,000 dinars? On the other hand, you were talking about pensioners who were the most injured in the previous four years as investors in that session, that they had invested in the state of Serbia even though you promised them in the pre-election cycle that no pensioner in Serbia would get hurt and that we could freely support you there, because so, they were supposed to suffer, that many government agencies where they paid abnormally large, many funding from a large number of NGOs and many other workers in the administration were not allowed to be touched. Then the question arises - what did pensioners invest in the previous four years? Did they invest in that criminal, Blago Spaskovski, the frame of Mladjan Dinkic, whom you took, who made such a dubiosis, that another 20 years of kidnapping of pensioners could not cover the holes and thank God the Chinese came and hope that instead of the chair they would deserve a final place where they should, which is that the Serbian Radical Party came to power, would be where the president of the party, Mladjan Dinkic, and nothing more than in prison. Did that money go to finance all those makeup, expensive lunches and dinners of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic? Did that money go to those support walls on Corridor 10 that were falling, where no one else participated but Zorana Mihajlovic again, and who knows how she staged the tenders? Did part of that money go to those you said were to cover that crime contract regarding the Bus Plus that you also promised to lift, so when you removed Dragan Gilas, you got a little chilly and you kept doing the same thing? Or maybe it's gone for these New Year's lights? Here, as I was coming to the Assembly today, I see that even though it's only September the moon is already being set in Belgrade, and it costs no less than 300 million? Then it's about responsibility to those people who say they've invested in our future, invested, pulled out of our country's crisis. Was the crisis a big one? Yes, it is. Was the 2008 regime irresponsible to do something he shouldn't have done? It's not. Did he raise his pensions unfounded? Absolutely is. Did he do it past any economic growth just to buy elections? It is, both 2008 and 2012. It's nothing controversial. Why did you promise something you couldn't keep? How is this model going to continue to be successful in practice? Do you really think that someone believes that discretion policy will convince someone to be safe...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43142	Time for my colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43143	Here, I'm finishing my sentence. ... That he can invest in himself and tomorrow for his better tomorrow at the age he's due to meet. Thank you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43144	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43145	A lot of thinking, but we're all wrong. What we talked about on both the Committee and here, when we talk about investment, we are just talking about a good foreign and internal policy of a government, which is that investors have the opportunity from both east and west to finance and open factories here in Serbia. This shows exactly trade with EU countries, which are 2/3, those 1/3 are precisely companies that come from the east. What is most important is that it proved on China's last visit that Serbia is a highly respected country, as the country's most important partners in the Silk Road programme, 16 plus one, Central and Southeast European countries. So, a country that simply has the highest level of trust within the EU, although it is not an EU member. That's one thing. Secondly, when we talk about the government's exclusive right and when it comes to pensions, it is what an attempt is for the entire opposition to show the public that 0.3% of GDP growth, which is related to the overall high economic growth of the Republic of Serbia, is the exclusive right of the government to increase pensions, which is not true. It represents one supplement and is not related at all to the pension payment methodology. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible, wants to give the high growth parallels to pensioners precisely on the basis of the return of what the 2014 law has reduced, regardless of the percentage of the increase itself. Therefore, pensioners will, in addition to their check, not only be paid back to the level of 2014, but also get an increase, which will give us the opportunity if we have a higher economic growth of 4% next year, which is in that article 80th and the 27th budget system to share much greater increases to get along with their salary than they would have in that formula.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43146	You're bringing the end of my colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43147	And finally, let me tell you, it's a great shame when any institution writes in its assessment and the report that we are bonding in this pervasive sense for the economic growth of African countries and the Middle East. This is the first insult to these countries because in this sense we want to offend these countries that they have certain growth and a system to divide wages in a bad way. Excuse me, one Egypt, one Algerian state that today supports Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43148	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43149	Thank you. I don't know where you get Tunisia and Algeria, I guess you love Tunisia and Algeria, they're friendly of our countries, but I'd invite you to look at Austria, Ireland, Holland, Denmark. I think that's going to mean both those names and the development of those countries, so compare the systems that exist there for pensions, that's your answer. I think you lied to the auditorium and lied to the public. This is the real truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43150	Thank you. Right on line, MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43151	I thank the chairman, although I really don't know why she first received a copy of the SNS, I didn't mention it once, but there's no problem and she talked for three minutes instead of two, but okay. When we spoke, I went back to the board because the representatives of the ministry at the time, whether or not the cat ate the tongue or I don't know what it was, when we talked about all the modes, they retreated and they kept quiet. Whether I'm lying or not, you'll soon see what this modelity will look like. Of course I will always say that it is completely insane now to get up all MPs of the ruling majority who are written to talk about how this pension increase is back to 2014 and increase. Great. How much did it cost to fuel in 2014? How much did everything else cost? How much did basic supplies cost? How much did it cost to live? How much did the water cost? How much was there? Here's the city, how much did it increase now all these new taxes, info and stuff? What was the pension then, to look at all the indicators? Then you say: "We have increased; and you say: We have not reduced the pensions of those of up to 25,000 dinars. You live with 25 grand, to see if you live, to pay rent, to pay for schooling, to pay for kindergarten, to buy children food, basic supplies, without talking about any more serious flights, winters and anything. It's easy for you to tell when you have boards and who knows what doesn't come from the position of government, but don't deceive the public that everything is the same and now it's better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43152	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43153	I'm advertising Article 107 and Member 103 by warning you that this is the last time that we Serbian radicals will tolerate this and treat the MPs this way. Minister, my colleague Damjanovic didn't lie. He only compared this model to the countries where it is used on the basis of the use of the model. That's right. You've lied, you've been deceived, and you're doing it with the goal that this model that will be based primarily on whether the statistics that will be announced to the public will contribute to increasing pensions or not, whether the government will decide to increase pensions or not, whether GDP will be increased or not, whether that increase will be 0.3% allocated enough to all pensioners or not. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43154	Comrade Mircic, just tell me what this has to do with the article. 103rd and 107th?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43155	He has with Article 107 that ministers are finally decent and that they do not show that kind of arrogance and impoliteness. It's an insolence, Mr. Arsic, and you, as a colleague of ours, need to defend your MPs. You, as the most responsible, should warn the ministers. In the future, we will react either from the scene or we will respond much more strongly based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You'd better not laugh, Minister. With radicals, it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43156	Col. Mircic, a member of the Rules of Procedure who regulates the application for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, predicts that it will be immediately after the injury has been done. Meanwhile, counterpart Damjanovic spoke, got the right to a replica, so you were too late to advertise the Rules of Procedure. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43157	Direct mention. When we're talking about boards of directors, well, whoever talks most was a member of the Board of Directors of Studies B. So this is where SNS MPs rarely get to be a member of any board of directors. That's one thing. When we talk about how pensions are paid, then the formula is applied if you fall below 11% of GDP. We are currently with these increases to 11.1% of GDP, which is related to the Budgetary System Act. When we have bigger growth, then this 0.3% of GDP that is now given as an additive, an increase, is likely to be greater. We are preparing for greater economic growth, for greater economic activity. Unlike all of you who went below, you went down on business activities and shared pensions from credit, we differ dramatically, because we have a responsibility to the people and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43158	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43159	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, listening to the debate in these two days and listening to the debate on the Committee on Budgets, in fact, we can understand that two key issues are being imposed, and these two key issues, to translate into Serbian citizens, are: where will Serbia pay out pensions and what is the fiscal council of the Republic of Serbia written, which is the basis for the entire criticism of the opposition in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia? Let's get in line. The fiscal outcome of the Republic of Serbia is best seen, as in every country, based on a fiscal consolidated final account for one fiscal year. The fiscal score in 2018 for the first six months is 32.9 billion surpluses and is the result of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we are voting in the Republic of Serbia for 30.9 billion and surpluses in the lower authorities, for the first time in history, and should always be said for the first time in history. For example, cities and municipalities have a surplus of 4.4 billion. This revenue is the result of a 30% contribution at the general state level, i.e. 296 billion. This contribution is growing at 8.8% or 24 billion and that the primary thing in the whole story is with contributions to the growth of contributions, i.e. pensions and disability. Payment growth in the PIO Fund is due to the growth of taxable income and growth in the number of employees. So we also have a reduction in unemployment and growth in new jobs. To be precise, very true, the average gross salary in the Republic of Serbia increased 5.5%, the employment rate by 3.3%, and we created new 68.000 jobs. Such tax revenues allowed the state of Serbia to meet its obligations to, above all, social categories. This is how the state of Serbia pays 24% for salaries at the moment, and 27% for pensions, 8% for social grants and 8% for subsidies. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that is an economic basis that makes the state of Serbia stable so that it can reconcile its fiscal obligations. It is the basis that allows the state of Serbia to pay more in absolute amounts over the next period, while retaining in the relevant amounts the exact percentage amount as written in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also proof that in the first six months of 2018 the state of Serbia recorded a trend and growth rate recorded in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and that the state has a regulated fiscal order. The roots and foundations of such a fiscal arrangement, above all, were set up in 2014, when the vision of Alexander Vukic and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia made a stable economic order possible over the past three years. Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, today is difficult to discuss with people who have a different attitude. Politically, it would be best to take and quote the words and sentences they have spoken in the previous period of time. Well, let's see what they said when they passed these laws. In fact, this whole debate would be quite pointless, because it's completely untransparent that someone who didn't understand when we were in the Serbian Parliament bringing heavy and more rigid economic laws understands and understands today when we bring these. I would especially refer to the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council of the Republic of Serbia is an integral part of the functioning of the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia. Its functioning has been defined by the Law on the Budgetary System and it is not disputed that the Fiscal Council is giving its opinions on the government's proposals and decisions and its opinions on the decisions of the Serbian Parliament. There's no problem with that. The fiscal council's decision should always be heard and heard, always read, but it's just an opinion. When they ask me what I think of the Fiscal Council, with all due respect to the people sitting there, I always say, "Come on, take it, read what the Fiscal Council wrote, for example." On June 31st, 2014 about its perceptions of events in Serbia in the next period of time. Take 2015, 2016 and 2017. For example, you can see that the Fiscal Council says that in 2020 public debt will be 75% compared to GDP. Today is not even 2020, but 2018. At the beginning of 2019, public debt will not be 75%, according to the Fiscal Council in its perception, but will be below 50%. The fiscal council has the right to its own opinion, but the Fiscal Council does not oblige us and the Fiscal Council is not a legislative body in making decisions. The fiscal council has fully agreed with the fiscal strategy. This is what Article 27g tells you, because the government of the Republic of Serbia, when it adopted a fiscal strategy, which is the basis for the Republic of Serbia's budget, heard and understood the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which did not oppose it. Fiscal principles, 27e, say the budgetary balance at this point is 11% of pensions and 7% of salaries. So the Fiscal Council agreed that the fiscal strategy should be as it is. If you look at those reports earlier, then you can understand that in fiscal consolidation, the Fiscal Council has proposed much more stringent and much more difficult rules for the state of Serbia. In the end, why can't I agree with the position of the Fiscal Council? It's about the indexation process. If the Serbian Parliament today listens to what is proposed by the fiscal council's decision, in fact, we would give pensioners less pensions. We say, and I quote very clearly, and it should be read, that this decision is based on 0.3% of growth, at 0.3% of GDP. At this point, if you look at the indexation that stands in the law and 0.3%, you have a loss of at least two billion dinars on the part of the pensioner's damage. The fiscal council should be respected, but Serbian citizens, i.e. SNS, are doing everything possible to make pensioners and citizens of Serbia better. In the end, I can't think at all that there is a single MP, and one citizen of Serbia who doesn't want our pensioners to get bigger pensions. We can have a debate today and we'll end up taking it in detail, but the essence of this debate is that, in November my parents, my neighbors get a pension check for October, they'll get everyone from 8.8% to 13.2% more pensions than ever. Are you against it? They say - inflation rate. Inflation rate is 2% on average. So no one tells us what we really need to do without it being like the World Bank, the IMF and other institutions say. My advice to all those who criticize us, come on you don't have to read the laws, come on we don't have to have the same economic views, let's not have to have the same economic views of the economy, let's people read what the World Bank, the IMF, says statistics on all European countries. If it says one economic parameter, GDP growth, unemployment rate reduction, foreign investment rates, and one parameter that Serbia today is not top one, top 10, whatever you want... All right, you're right, no one mentioned today the election of Vice Governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. You know, we're choosing Vice Governor NBS and there's no debate about it. In fact, when we're discussing pensions and fiscal stability today, we're also choosing a vice governor and talking about monetary stability. Would there be fiscal reform, fiscal principles, fiscal rules that you do not have monetary stability, that you do not have a team whose political basis is Aleksandar Vukic, and in terms of functioning of the fiscal order of the finance minister and the governor of the NBS, in terms of monetary policy, Jorvanka Tabakovic? Now I don't praise Jorgenka Tabakovic. The EU inflation rate in this month is 2.1%, in the EU 2.1%. The inflation rate in the EU last month is 2.2% in the EU zone 2.2%. The Central European Bank is making a decision to apply rates and restrictive monetary policy because inflation is bigger than set, and is set to 2%. The rate of inflation in June in Russia is 2.1%, in America 2.9%, the average rate of inflation in Serbia 2%. The average rate of inflation in Serbia over the past five years is 2%, foreign currency growth in the past five years practically does not exist. Today when we decide, or tomorrow when we decide to raise our pensions, we will decide on the election of the Vice Governor of the National Bank. If the SNS did not repay its debt to the trust that is undisputed citizens of Serbia, because if it had not been for the confidence of Serbian citizens, there would be no fiscal policy, no monetary policy. I have to vote for those decisions, and if you believed, you wouldn't be on the side of the winner anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43160	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43161	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, today's principle debate leads to the direction of showing who and what he's been doing since 2012, but better said who did and what he did from 2000 to 2018. Just taking responsibility is the right question for the opposition, as well as for the position of today. When I say taking responsibility, I'm talking about the responsibility to be taken over by all those involved in politics, or by those who have made decisions and who have managed the state. When the SNS took responsibility for the state of Serbia in 2012, pensioners and those people I'm talking about now lived in the same country. It was all these people who lived in 2012, who were just thanks to democracy in the DOS that they could hardly wait, barely survived until 2012, who had just realized in 2014 that the pension reduction was not a loss, but rather a path to larger pensions and here is a four-year law that would primarily reduce, or abolish, the reduction and return pensions to the 2014 level with an increase of about ten percent. The way they led the country from 2000 to 2012 led to such a result that when the SNS took responsibility in 2012, no one wanted to take responsibility for the event until 2012. Just now, Djilas, Petrovic, Jeremic, Stefanovic, Tadic went where my loved ones are, and who is to blame for destroying the state and destroying the economy, agriculture, destroying the pension fund, health fund, destroying the tanks and Serbia's Army? It's nobody's fault. My citizens know, or our citizens know who's to blame and who's responsible for it. They also showed this in the 2014 elections after pension cuts, 2016, 2017, even more support. So they know who's responsible and know who's going to make the right result and the right future for Serbia. What is once again a question, which is that it is the Alliance for Serbia, which is the only point in which they hate Vukic, on the one hand, and on the other hand they want Gilas to regain power, and that's where Gilas gathers them, and that's where Gilas was left without mayor in Belgrade, and you deny me if I'm wrong, the first thing he did was to throw Vuk Jeremic and Dusan Petrovic out of the party. Now they're back together in an attempt to sort of replace Alexander Vukic and this power. What you know, and you know very well, the Belgrade citizens understood what the DS was doing and so they responded to their elections. As anyone does, what they do, they judge the citizens in the elections, and you're guilty, they ruled in the elections and in the 2014 elections, 2016, 2017 and 2018, and they ruled you together and these pensioners that you protect. Yeah, and they told you you were guilty. What's an even bigger problem is your attempt at an alliance where everyone who hates Wolfie finds themselves, you're ashamed of each other, you're lying to each other, but that's your problem. Why doesn't any of you get up and say that Zeljko Veselinovic is not in 10 founders of this Alliance, that there are no people in the Alliance who come with phantoms at the Alliance for Serbia's meeting. They were with the phantoms in Capco. It was this very gathering that injured a citizen of the Whispers. On Saturday night, unfortunately, it happened that under the cover of darkness, at ten o'clock in the evening, someone skipped, or masked faces with phantoms on their heads, jumped into the courtyard of SNS activists in Šapec, attacked a woman who was with two underage children at the time, threatened that if her husband continued to deal with politics, that she and her children would not be well. These are your allies. Stand up and say that Zeljko Veselinovic, allies, are not coming to you people with phantoms to the Alliance for Serbia meetings. Get up, or I'm not telling the truth, or you. Serbian citizens know very well what they are and who they are just members of the Alliance for Serbia. The pensioners understood very well who was doing what, who was lying and who was stealing, and there's no need for you to protect them. In the end, I will end it, and you are ashamed of your fellow Members and should be ashamed of them. No one in the SNS is ashamed of their associates and their bosses. In this case, our ministers bear responsibility for what they do. Our President of the Republic is the most responsible person in Serbia, and he acts that way. This parliament bears some responsibility and no one will ever run away from what we vote on. All those who think well of Serbia and think well of pensioners should support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43162	Thank you, colleague Birmancevic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43163	You're going to get a sore hand from the government's pat on the shoulder. Col. Birmancevic gave a brilliant analysis of the amendments and additions to the Law on the PIO Fund. I hope the president of the party will finally recognize him as one worthy MP. So, I've got two days in my head of fiscal stability, consolidation, fiscal stability. Do you know what the results are, what should be the results of fiscal stability? Predictability, stability, possibility of planning. Isn't that right, Minister Mali? And you're just repealing a member of the law that guarantees it to the pensioners. The member of the law that you've abolished to the pensioners has guaranteed how much pension he's going to have. He guaranteed them and gave them the opportunity to plan his age, his life. Not just the pensioners, the ministers, and the workers who are getting close to retirement. And you've just abolished that member of the law and reintroduced pensioners and workers in one period of uncertainty, instability, turbulence, inability to plan. In 2014, you brought pensioners to existential uncertainty. That's what you're saying today. And it may be possible to pass it in some elections with a huge media twist, but these pensioners can't forget you. So you're leaving one standard European model of harmonising pensions with the cost of living, so, Colloquially, I say, and you're moving on to a system used in countries where the military junta, where the state order of theocracy, where the monarchy rules, is king and religious leader. A gradual democracy that lasts 20 years is being introduced, these are not democratic countries. You switch from a modern, European model to this model used in South Africa and in Arab countries. So that's what you're doing with this law. And to our question, Ministers, both Ministers – how and to which you guarantee that you will adjust your pensions, you answer – well, let them trust us for the word, the honorable pioneering, however, you will see, we will certainly agree. Ministers, you can't be trusted by word. You were trusted by both pregnant women and mothers, so today they have to walk to defend their rights. You were also trusted by pensioners in 2014 that we had nothing to take from them, so we won't cut pensions, you said. And, then, six months later, hundreds of thousands of dinars to every pensioner in four years. Once again, it's an amazing thing to go back a year into the legal solutions that give the government discretionary rights. Well, so the minister of education gave himself the discretionary right to put the director in ten schools. Where he put the directors in five strike parents, not just teachers. The finance minister came with a law that gives you the discretionary right to reward your employees as much as you think he can, without any criteria. Today you come with a law that abolishs the clear security of pensioners that their pensions will be brought into line with a law-based formula and you move on to the discretionary right of a minister, prime minister, prime minister, or president of the state. Too many discretionary rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43164	Finish it slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43165	You can't be trusted by word anymore. Get in again and bring the pensioners into a period of instability. I won't forgive you for your next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43166	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43167	Article 107 and question of dignity again because of the need to speak the truth. We speak, though, to those who are there to hear. If they want to talk about formulas, so let's at least be so correct and fair as to look at the video, if it's hard for them to sit in the hall when they talk about it. To see what the Committee's sittings are about. They cannot talk about the formulas for which the fiscal council, which they are called upon, says itself – in the opinion delivered to the MPs, but it seems difficult for some to do the work of the MP, so they can read what they are calling for. A formula that was by the so-called. Swiss model, when was it abolished in this country? Is that your ideal? 2005. Who was in power in this country that year? Is it again this fantastic tycoon-Iotic coalition that's gathered now? Something seems to me it is. We remember that period so well. Then what happened? Look at that same opinion, so you see. They changed the formulas, so they came up with some new ones that might be ideal number two now, what the hell. And what was the consequence of 2008? It's a complete collapse. That bankruptcy, that dubiosis that made it unsustainable, not just this system we're discussing, but every system and every funding in the country. Well, that's because of those fantastic formulas of yours. It's unacceptable for someone here to point a finger today and say, "You're causing suspense, you're jeopardizing this, and you're jeopardizing that." In doing so, of course, he ignores the fact that we have seen it already in practice that it is not true, but the truth is on the opposite side entirely. That the truth is 13% increase when it's done seriously and responsibly, and they're not fair enough and they're correct enough to say, and what we're warning about, we did it ourselves. And because of that, to say honestly -- we can't, today when we're talking about formulas, not a single word to say -- and what formula would be the right one? You know why I can't? They've tried all these things that they'd try to say about each and every one of them, but literally they've made catastrophic mistakes. And I end up, when the word "incredible" is used here, whoever from the other side of the hall, from that coalition, stands up and uses the word "incredible", let it be finished, let it be accompanied by the words "unbelievable that I did not find it appropriate to condemn until now my president, their president of the alliance, Željko Veseinović. I'm ashamed as a man. “
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43168	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. A colleague of Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague, Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43169	Article 27. I don't know what member you gave Mr. Orlic now. He's replicated it. I don't mind the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43170	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43171	It's based on a member. But he had no right to speak now about the replica based on Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43172	I'm here to assess, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43173	You misjudged it, but well, it's your right to misjudge. So you need to very clearly define legally on what basis, that is, the way it was now. If you wanted to discuss the pension system, you could come to parliament and open the debate, we would say our proposals. We could've talked about disability pensions. We could've talked about old-age, family pensions. This is how you come to the government, to give yourself more authority and pensioners into new instability and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43174	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. I don't know what it has to do with Article 27 of your discussion, but good. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43175	Since Mr. Chairman, some here seem to be completely Googled to what Article 107 contains, and when we say that it is a member of 107, they do not give any meaning to it in the reflection, and it concerns the dignity of the National Assembly. Here's something brand-new for them, I believe they'll find it interesting. I'll explain article 283, of course. He says: The Messenger of the people is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. What's happened now is a classic counter example, a man sitting there, should listen to the debate, but he's not listening. He should be involved in the work, paying attention to what we said, he doesn't do it. I don't think that's good, but I'm telling you in advance we're not asking to vote on this. They say they're looking for guarantees. They say – he's looking for certainty? What would be the certainty of them if they were to be trusted by word? That every citizen, for example, two to three years before retirement, takes home a piece of paper, takes a pen and says, "I want it to be a adjustment based on inflation, I know that inflation in two years from today will be so much and so much, now let me figure out what my pension will be, and then it's a complete certainty." That's totally ridiculous, that's absolutely impossible. That's absolutely how no one does it. If you're worried about certainty, if you want guarantees, then based on experience so far, the strongest guarantee that these pensions will be regular, will be stable, will be on time and will increase, the fact that you will not decide on them, the fact is that they will not be asked about by those who have put the land in charge, who have compromised those pensions, who have done it directly, that there may not be a pension or anything else in this country, there is no firmer guarantee. When you look at what everyone's going to write on a slice since October of the month, so when you look that these amounts are 8 to 13% higher than they were before 2014 you'll understand that it didn't have to the way you did, that it could be this good, that it could go in plus. You did it the way you did, because you didn't know better, you didn't care. For the very end, whenever someone gets up on the other side, they either have to start or end with words - and I am sorry and ashamed that the president of my alliance is one Zeljko Vesenovic. If he doesn't, he's up for nothing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43176	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43177	We ask very clearly questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43178	Just a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43179	Article 104. So, so far, the pensioners have had a very clear guarantee and a very clear formula for harmonising pensions. What's most important, it was a legal basis, it was a legal definition, they knew exactly, when something was defined by law, then you can plan, then you can predict. You have one stability and security. This is a product of fiscal stability. You're just talking about fiscal stability here, and you're abolishing a member who's just guaranteeing pensioners reconciliation, increasing certain pensions. And we ask, on what basis will you define the financial stability of the PIO Fund? You, then, say: "Well, believe in us for a word." In the rule of law, you don't believe the word, you believe the laws. That's just not what you're interested in. This is election law. You'll increase your pre-election pensions to cloud this story that you've taken hundreds of thousands of dinars from them in four years, that you've brought them into one fiscal existential uncertainty. You did it in 2014 and somehow covered it with media twists. He won't forgive you today. Reintroduce pensioners into uncertainty, existential uncertainty, inability to plan, insecurity. That's what our pensioners need the least. Oh, yeah, we didn't know better, we only increased our pensions by 10%, and we didn't just, we gave back 12 pensions, we gave back 18 agricultural pensions, and we didn't know that better than you. You're in charge. You haven't paid for social benefits in two years. We gave it back in 2000. Not only did we raise our pensions, and we did this for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43180	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Dr. Crescent. The eagle, the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43181	Article 27 for obvious reasons. But, again, in advance I say, we don't have to plead, we just have to take care of some things here, that someone will eventually boast, but be careful to boast, by the fact that they're 10 plus 10% ahead of the election. Now, look, they're trying to transfer it to someone else as a sin even though it never happened. It's never happened to us, that someone's going to brag about it, by making me give you 10, so I'm going to give you a little bit more, let's make it another 20, and then if you're out of anything, I'm sorry, I had to do it because it was a good time. Well, that's not for boasting. It's not something that a decent man will flaunt. It's all the opposite of that. Why don't you brag about what he's done, like, Dragan Gilas in Belgrade City? How many millions did he owe, you know, to the pensioners? How many millions of specials have remained due to pregnant women and maternity families, mentioned today? Are those phenomenal results? Well, the only thing you could boast as a record good was at a republican level, and also at this city that was directly operated by tycoon Dragan Gilas, dubiosis, debt, borrowing at fantastically good interest rates, that someone had to pay it back tomorrow. Fortunately for Serbia, he was returning someone and bringing back someone who could do it seriously and responsibly, by filling in the holes that you've made insolently, beating, you know best where, and ending up talking about some reform that was temporary by eventually becoming more and more everyone. Listen well, more to everyone, and to those who had the lowest pensions and those who had the most pensions, everyone more, from 8 to 13% depending on the amount. Then who's successful and who's a failure? Whoever spends his time, come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. And, among other things, by showing up here today for the word, trying to convince someone that it's white black and black white, while not finding it appropriate to say it – and I'm ashamed, as a man, I'm ashamed of a Zeljko Veseinović who is a picture and opportunity for me personally and others from my tycoon Latvian coalition, and as soon as I don't say I'm ashamed of it, I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43182	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43183	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 103, but I respect the tolerance that you've shown regarding the addition of articles 109 and sanctions, but I'm asking you not to apply them. The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured here, too. It is said – we have returned 18 agricultural pensions. As someone who voted for the government of Zoran Djindjic, I don't remember him, what he said. We did not return, although I voted for this government, in a certain way the international community compensated us with donor support, compensated what it did to us in the 1990s. That donor support was 4.5 billion. The London and Paris Club, which the finance minister should know better than I, also forgiven the debt thanks to the energy of the citizens and their patience in the 1990s when it was a blow to our country, due to military and economic pressures the international community has helped us. She helped put that back. It has nothing to do with them, it has to do with the government of Zoran Djindjic, who, behold, I voted for, but at the time I didn't see them, and as far as I can see, they joined together and became an integral part of a Latvian organisation called Dveri. Therefore, they have nothing to do with Zoran Djindjic's politics, only abuse it. That's one thing I wanted to say. As they took care of the pensioners, I'll give you an example. Prior to the fall of the criminal government, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic gave him three euros of sugar, three for three euros each, gave 13,000 or 13 million pounds of sugar, 15 million, a pardon, for 13m euros. The price was over 80 euro cents per kilogram, although sugar cost 40 euros. The greasy geese tail was greased, and the pensioners forgot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43184	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43185	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that the MP, Mr. Nikolic, came out of the O.R. before he heard the answer to what he said. If we remember in 2009 and 2010, then it was in power, if I am not mistaken, the DS and then the people of that party froze pensions both in 2009 and 2010. I don't know how it represents any predictability and security for pensioners. On the other hand, there is a big difference between 2008 and 2018. In 2008, pensions were raised four times by a completely catastrophic, irresponsible decision. As soon as next year, the Serbian economy had a negative growth of 3.1%, our public debt went up, we had a record deficit that culminated in 2013. We are talking today about increasing the pensions that have been made and planned on the basis of real results, based on the third year in a row of surpluses in the budget that we have, based on what we have saved and what our economic reform programme has done. It's a big difference between that policy at the time, which was led by the purchase of votes, which was led by winning the elections, from this one now. It has always been that we have promised, talked hard work, difficult reforms, painful reforms that we have to go through, but here are the results of this reform and that policy. Finally, for Mr. Nikolic and the others who, I see, hold one piece of paper prepared by the Fiscal Council, see how they work both in the Netherlands and Denmark and Ireland, and don't just take an example of Algeria and I don't know which other countries. As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we do not want to, and I will repeat it a million times if I have to, to increase pensions based on the inflation rate, which is now extremely low, so 1.5 to 2%, we want these pensions to increase even more if the economic results allow it. We have shown that we can, that we can and know how to run this country's economy, how to make money, how to lower unemployment, how to attract foreign investment, how to just have more money in the budget, and how to pay in the public sector, and also our pensions to our pensioners are bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43186	Thank you, Minister. (Goran Ciric: The Democratic Party is mentioned. Here you go. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43187	Who knows which way the DS was mentioned by ministers, but it's interesting when Minister Mali mentions DS. You've talked about the results several times. How long were you a member of the DS and part of that team? The most common accusations and attacks against DS heard here from coalition partners between 2000 and 2003, later in 2004 and 2008, is the participation of DS in privatisation. You were one of the most direct participants in privatisation, where you join the accusations of this period of privatisation and now you ask us MPs – and what has DS done well in the pension system, and even in the economic system of the Republic of Serbia? I'll remind you. As one of the employees of the Privatisation Agency, you took part in many privatisations, so you well remember what the public debt was in 2000, which was inherited by the DS from the current coalition that led the country in the 1990s – 15 billion euros and the participation of public debt in GDP was then over 200%. It was a real economic environment that elapsed with great economic knowledge and that the DS then managed to recover 12 pensions forgotten to pay off, managed to repay the old foreign currency savings. Imagine someone telling you what you've been saving your whole life that you don't have any more, that it's being declared an old foreign exchange savings, and then that evil DS, after the five-octobaric changes, managed to bring it back. Thus, the debt of these estimated approximately 200m euros per year will also be paid back. How many laws adopted in 2014 on temporary pension cuts, we talked about – about 800m euros in four years. These conditions and criteria you are talking about are, under a 4% GDP growth condition, with a limit of 0.03%, to an estimated GDP of 35 billion, some up to 100m euros per month.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43188	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The word is Dr. Sinisha Mali, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43189	Thank you very much. First of all, once again, I said several times, I've never been a member of the DS in my life, never, ever, ever one day. I did a job fair and square and I know what I was doing and how I did it from 2001 to 2003, and it's no problem, we can talk about it as much as you want. One is privatisation, and the other is robbery privatisation. One has nothing to do with the other. It's part of my professional experience. I was talking about 2008, for 2001 and 2002, I know what the situation was. I was talking about 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. You can't say that from 2008 to 2009, public debt through participation in GDP has not increased by 50%, you can't say. You can't also say that the growth rate of the economy wasn't negative, minus 3.1% in 2009, I mean 0.2% in 2010. That's what I'm talking about. A short time ago, counterpart Nikolic spoke about the predictability of a system that did not exist at that time, about you freezing your pensions in 2009 and 2010. Here, Mr. Nikolic came back, didn't mention it. It's important for me to understand. You now have the opportunity to give and return to pensioners and more than some formula you're talking about that hasn't been abolished, which still exists there, except we have the opportunity to give more, and we've shown that we're responsible enough, that if the inflation rate is 1.5-2%, and we're increasing pensions by 8, 9, 10, 13%, so that's real growth. It's not growth when you have inflation, you've had, unfortunately, no paper here, in 2012 and 2013 it went over 13%. It wasn't so much an increase in pensions. Last year you had an inflation rate of 2.7%, if I'm not mistaken, pension growth was 5%. So, in real retirement, they go up. If the economic situation allows us, there will be more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43190	Thank you, Minister. (Goran Ciric: Replica. ) Mr. Ciric, you have no right to a replica, no party is mentioned, nor is the party president, but Dejan Nikolic can, he is mentioned by name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43191	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Mali, there's really no reason to answer about you personally and about what you've been doing and where you've been. First of all, I don't take personal politics down, I didn't say if you were. Mr. Ciric said that you were part of a system that attacks your colleagues, even they attack certain privatisations that you worked on. We don't say that and we don't mention it. That's what your colleagues here say in Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, I'll leave it, if there's a trial, let the court answer what you've been doing, whether you've done something wrong, based on the law or not, based on the law. I really don't want to get into it. You're the finance minister now, and I want to talk about this law. Your answer to all this – well, you did this too in 2008, 2009 and 2010. You do not answer the laws, you say, you were bad, which I suppose gives you the right to be worse. Is that the Secretary of Finance's answer? First of all, freezing pensions was a certain kind of stability. Do you know what global financial and economic movements were like back then? One of America's largest economic forces has lost millions of jobs. One China, another economic power, has lost millions of jobs. One Germany lost several hundred thousand jobs. All the budgets were in trouble. The freezing of pensions was one measure that also guaranteed there would be no reduction in pensions, which you then made in 2014. I'm talking about you defining us on the basis of which and on what you're based on what you're saying now there are going to be some increases. This has to be based on laws, you have to define very clearly, not to say – well, if there is a certain financial stability.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43193	Then why didn't you put it on the basis of the government's budget's financial stability, if it's so fiscally consolidated? Why? You put the financial sustainability of the PIO fund, which is in itself unsustainable at this point because of demographic ageing. So, because of these murky definitions, we don't believe and ask questions, and you haven't answered for two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43194	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word is Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43195	Mr. Nikolic, you just said that the freezing of pensions at that time was an expression of stability and you mention that some other countries did it. Mr Nikolic, you increased your pension four times in 2008 when the global economic crisis broke out, when the consequences of this were in those countries that you listed, so it was a disastrously irresponsible move that led us to the problem, led us both to an increase in public debt and to negative growth rates and everything else. So two bad guys don't do good. It's not an unsustainable PIO fund system. You are mistaken, Mr Nikolic, this year only 26% of the PIO fund will be supported by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Only four years ago, that was almost 50%. So every other dinar paid to pensioners in the Republic of Serbia went out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You have a clear trajectory down when it comes to supporting the PIO budget. Now, that's the way to a sustainable system. That's why we're fighting for every new job, for every new employee in the economy, because that employee pays off his contributions to the PIO Fund. The more of these we have, the less need we need to support from the budget, we have a more sustainable and stable pension system. It's just what you don't understand. That's how the system works. That's why we're fighting every new investment, for every new factory, for every new mile of highway, because that mile of highway brings some new investors, and then fills the budget and then we say, yes, we've made fiscal stability on the most sound basis. Well, it's not a budget surplus in the third year in a row of coincidences, it's the result of a proper responsible policy. He says in the budget, I apologize, in the Budget and Budgetary System Act, so here's the law. We'll see what kind of situation you'll be in next year if it's good, there'll be pensioners and a bigger pension increase, why not. I think I have answered your questions clearly enough and that, on the issue of the citizens of Serbia, our oldest citizens, once again, thank you very much for everything we have been through together over the past four years, if we continue at this pace, and there is no reason why we should not continue, our economic results can only be better and better. Once again this means higher pensions and means higher salaries in the public sector, means a better and safer future for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43196	Thank you, Minister Mali. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. After him, Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43197	Well, here, I'm just going to try and explain something that might not have been quite clear to you, at least as far as I can tell from your exposure. First, there is no predictability of the system and Mr. Sinisha Mali said that even when you had a foundation in the law you were freezing pensions and happening in 2009 and 2010, the Ministry of Finance and the Government estimated that something should be frozen. But in order for that to happen, the government has to make that decision in the National Assembly, it has to have a majority, it can't by its decision or by any rule to regulate the regulation to say that something freezes. As far as the system itself is concerned, you were right when you said the Kingdom, but not there some kingdom, the Kingdom of Holland, Denmark, and then Ireland as a country, Austria, have this pension system and pension coordination as we are doing here now. You're talking about a system that exists, this pension coordination system exists in some countries, where it is aligned with price increases, gross domestic products, inflation, wages, etc. You can do this in systems when you are satisfied, with pensions and salaries, pensions and gross domestic products, pensions and consumer baskets. Serbia is not satisfied with this, and I think that you agree with me that pensions need to catch up with more consumer baskets and more average wages and should get closer to them, because we think that pensions are lower than they should from some average minimum consumer baskets, so that it would work then use this system as in these countries that I've listed to you, these four. So it's not Tunisia, it's not Algeria, it's these four European countries. So we want to, in accordance with the state's capabilities, bring our pensions closer to the minimum consumer basket, as well as the minimum labour price. So the exact same thing we want to do. We want some minimum conditions for Serbian citizens to make possible in a very close future, which is to make their material position better. It will be better if that minimum wage, if that minimum pension is at the level of minimum consumer baskets. That's, I mean, the ideal that we all live for. When you say it's not harmonised anywhere and it's going to government by some act or regulation. The government can't do it by act and regulation. So this has to happen in the Budget and Budgetary System Act at the end of the year. I promised Mr. Mark Djurisic on Fridays 16th to 16th and nineth, he put it out and said he didn't believe it. I'll call him on the date I know, the date I wrote to myself to read together what he said, and I expect an apology from him when he's in the Budget Law and the budget system of a defined larger pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43198	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43199	I won't be long, I think there's one sentence left to hang in the air that's probably about the neglect of the minister getting enlightened by the strike in 10 schools, because he's misplaced the directors. Here, like this, a year and a half ago a law was passed where that category said the minister could interfere. Since 1741, I don't know if there are 10, you'd have to help me, maybe there's four as far as I know, and nobody's strikein', there's a threat to strike. But by respecting the democratic majority, it means around 99.4% everything happens democratically, even in your math that it's 10, it's only six past. Where most of the candidates are from collectives, they meet other legal requirements, where they look for some quality, I respect the will of the collectives, where the cards, where the collectives are divided, then they see what the school board is doing where most are given. Where an Indian candidate is being driven who has a problem with corruption, with the Anti-Corruption Agency and all the reasons set out in the law, I insist that the competition be repeated. There have been many times, even in Vojvodina, because the category of rights transferred to the province is being misused. You can check, I'll bring you all the data by Wednesday, maybe in the heat of something you said, we're strictly keeping an eye on it, because we've discussed it, by passing the law, that category has just served to make the story more disciplined. Believe that there are effects in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43200	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. We're going back to work. The word is Mirko Krlić. He's not there. The word is Milovan Krikapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43201	I will discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. At the very beginning, I would say that it is known and proven that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS are investing in the youth and future of this country, but above all, he feels great respect for the pensioners for what they used to do, what they do today, what they love Serbia, which all of them can learn a lot and we owe them a huge amount of gratitude because they first supported heavy measures not thinking about themselves but about future generations. We must never forget how difficult it was when we came to power, there was almost no way out, there were difficult decisions to make, and without a reservation, the pensioners could support it precisely because they were not selfish and thought of themselves but of those who came after them. Much has been done in the previous four years and the president and the government have also shown responsibility with reforms implemented, which have been recognised by the IMF and the World Bank by the budget and the stability of public finances. All our work, our energy and our efforts are aimed at making our economic growth as good as possible and creating an opportunity for future generations to live better and better. There goes a time when pensioners supported their children's families, today we provide children with jobs and high-quality secondary and higher education. When we adopted fiscal consolidation measures three and a half years ago, there were many attacks and disputes. The opposition gentlemen simply raced who would hit us more, neglecting that the measures had to be imposed precisely because of their negligence and unhappiness in the previous government that they had just led. They brought everything to the edge of the ambis, pensions, and wages had to be reduced because there was a real danger of not being so bad at all. Now we have a full state register, stable public finances and visible economic growth, which is an indication that the great pension sacrifice and understanding of three and a half years ago made sense and that the fiscal consolidation measures were correct. The strategic definition of our country is, among other things, to establish a modern and efficient administration so that new laws and amendments and additions to the existing ones are passed. Therefore, amendments to the Law on PIO propose a fairer calculation of the amount of early retirement pension for insurance companies that increase the insurance training so-called ‘PIO’. a well-infected working experience, which, in accordance with the provisions of the law, have the right to lower the general age limit when going into retirement. In addition, amendments and certain provisions of the law have significantly reduced the employer's obligation to fill and deliver to the Republic of PIO have different applications. For example, the removal of the M4 and other forms, with a total of 16 forms being abolished. Then, in this law, we have a proposal to change the accounts of the last year's insurance hold, and all in order to reduce the number of temporary solutions of the Republic Fund PIO, which will significantly improve the efficiency of the fund's work and reduce administrative costs. We can freely say that the adoption of this law provides for greater legal certainty for pensioners. The Serbian Progressive Party is of the opinion that it is necessary to adopt this bill because it provides legal assumptions for its timely application and emphasises the possibility that pensioners who have borne the greatest burden of the fiscal consolidation process will benefit from the improvement of the state's internships. Before I discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, I cannot without thanking Minister Sarcevic for finding it appropriate to come to Kosovo and Metohija where it is necessary and where, together with the relevant authorities, he solves existing problems, giving great support to the Serbian and non-Albanian people for a better and safer life. Analyzing the problems of practices that arise in the application of the existing law and respecting it, we can see that changes and additions to the law have found adequate solutions that will best contribute to improving the functioning of higher education institutions and higher education systems and address the problem of insufficient arrangements for the involvement of Serbian language lecturers in higher education institutions abroad, as well as the functioning of management bodies and authorities of higher education institutions. Therefore, almost all the problems that amend and supplement laws need to be solved stem from the lack of proper provisions in the applicable law. It is therefore necessary to supplement the provisions of the applicable Higher Education Act in order to resolve them. The previous government led by the opposition gentlemen, who are very loud on this issue, did not pay attention to the problems piled up daily, nor to the appeal of the professional public, which pointed to this, so their wrong policy and lack of systemic care and monetary support to the lecturers led to a reduction in the number of Serbian language lecturers in the world. Because of their poor material position, the lecturers gave up working at foreign universities, and where they're not there, our new students don't sign up. Of course we had to react and, of course, we took the problem seriously, unlike the previous government, and that we would do everything possible to promote the Serbian language and culture in the world. The Serbian Progressive Party, given that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education solves almost all the problems created in the previous period, will vote in the day to vote and support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43202	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43203	If you please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and honourable MP, I think you'd only be a little involved in what you said, and it's very important for quality repair and improvement right in Kosovo and Metohija, our province. Just all the things we've been doing for the last year and a half there give results. It remains to be done something in this eastern part of the Ranilog, and we're getting it intensively, but what we did with the university gave us a top score. Ten percent of students enrolled at the University itself and 96.8% remain high school students to study there, which is extremely important. A visit by the President of the Republic of the last days to Kosovo and Metohija made an agreement that what the EU has promised for years, to do a building of the Technical School that is missing the University of Overall Capacity, which is a major investment, about sixm euros and is receiving 5.5 thousand squares. This solves the overall status of the University, and the health center is also rehabilitated and there are significant funds being invested to get the Clinical Center into the membership of the Medical Faculty, so it is an extremely good newspaper and it will make it even more important to strengthen, along with all those other models in secondary and primary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43204	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43205	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Marinkovic, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, of course, on two of these laws. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO ceases to apply the Law on the temporary payment of pensions. So our pensioners will continue to receive pensions without diminishing. It is the core and it is important for our pensioners to hear briefly and clearly what this law will bring. Here today, in this high house, we give recognition to our pensioners for a huge contribution to stabilising public finances and modernization of Serbia, which we see very successfully led by our respected President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, all for the future of our children and for future pensions. On Monday, we could hear unargued criticism here even today in the afternoon at the expense of investment. Gentlemen of the opposition, if there are no investments, there are no pensions, you who criticized investments, especially from a man who is known as the king of bankruptcy in the people. It's the man who goes best when our companies go bankrupt. Then he's the only one who's doing well, and that's why he criticises our investments, and he and his followers. He doesn't give a shit about pensions and workers' wages. The bankruptcy king and bankruptcy manager Mr. Sasa Radulovic, a bankruptcy manager at 14 companies, has placed 50 million dinars in his pocket for 495 months of compensation. As a bankruptcy manager, the former party president concluded bookkeeping contracts with a company whose co-owners were him and his wife, thus destroying the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia, and ladies and gentlemen and respected pensioners, thus also the pension system of the Republic of Serbia. It is the man who damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the United States, which did not pay a million-dollar tax. Here's the information from October 2016. That's what I was showing in this high house. And he's not the only one who's been doing it these days. And his second colleague, Dragan Gilas, known as the Giki Mafia, attacks every investment every day, every factory in Serbia, every job, and that means, Mr. Pensioners, and your pensions. It equally attacks, whether it's "Belgrade on Water", whether it's the PKK, whether it's RTB "Bor" or a tire factory in Zrenjanin. It is trying to drive domestic and foreign investors out of Serbia. It is a major crime, ladies and gentlemen, not only against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also against the state of Serbia as a whole. Our Serbian President, Honorable Aleksandar Vucic, was 100% right, and you gentlemen laughed back three years ago, when he told the citizens in his exhibition on 27 April 2014 - what is absolutely most important, everything we do, increasingly difficult, painful reforms, and these pensions that we take, we will last the next three, four years and already in early 2017 we will have a healthier economy and stop the growth of public debt and a lower fiscal deficit, and this will bring about the insurance of our pensions. Gentlemen of the opposition, here in this high house, I ask you, is this accomplished or not accomplished? Did the plot come true then, and the jokes you made at the expense of it? Of course it is, and more. We've gone from deficit to surplus, we've reduced public debt more than it's been drawn. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we would not then go to a temporary reduction in wages and pensions if the former regime had not brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy. He destroyed the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Today we heard “5. October" and a representative here on October 5th who advocates sitting in a high house today, and on October 5th, the DOS did not win. It was a street coup. All scientists not only in Serbia but also in the world have found that. Mr. Kostunica, if he has a bit of a teacher's honor, and I think he does, let him say if he won the election. Mr Milosevic did not lose, Kostunica did not win and there was no other round. You know who ordered it done. There is professional literature about this, and there is already much debate at international meetings. While on that, on October 5th, a representative of the DS believed it or not, before October 5th, one lawyer advocated the bombing of Serbia with Margaret Thatcher, with George Soros, with Mirko Kovac and other assholes in 1993. The same lawyer, a DS member, please, called Serbia "anus mundi", that citizens know, as an asshole, and Serbia for him what is in the anus, which is in the asshole. It's a finished quote. Mr. Martinovic, they're not just racists about Roma, but this is autorasism. These are all quotes, I can tell you that. But we can quote as much as you want, so let's move on. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our President Alexander Vukic in his exposé then said another quote. I quote - fiscal consolidation measures will bring the budget deficit down to a 3% sustainable limit by 2017 - 4% of GDP, leading to a halting of the public debt of around 75% of GDP and beginning its gradual decline. In one word, the state will become stable. Gentlemen of the former regime, did this happen or not, stand up here and say today, kill this? How much is GDP, and how much is public debt, and even more than planned. The deficit has dropped, of course, you can see even the public debt has gone to the surplus. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia do so by our president of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, by system very simple but very difficult -- plannedly, achieved. A few more sentences about the Higher Education Act. For studying and finishing studies, gentlemen Members of Parliament, it's never too late. It doesn't matter the years and high school we finished. Gentlemen, I am speaking to you, you must know your abilities, coordinate your wishes and your abilities, learn your qualities and values, and teachers must, if they are pedagogical and methodical, and are often not in higher education, train and help each student, but everyone in their efforts, and the social community to create an ambience to achieve this. There is no harm, gentlemen MPs and respected citizens, a poor student or student, there are only bad professors for the cathedral and the social community to create an ambience. The professor has to fight for every student, as a doctor for a patient, otherwise he's not a professor. It could be behind the cathedral whoever it is, if it doesn't work that way. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of a resolute minister, has already several times extended student studies, a deadline for completing studies per so-called. The old program. Of course, students need to finish their studies on that study program they started studying under, and there is no dilemma. The colleges of some, unfortunately, limited years of study and saw a chance to charge, move on to a new programme, an enormous, high amount of money. This is about students who are mostly good averages. I've been looking at some 4,000 indices and their estimates, but also certain material problems. However, they extended, among other things, the study, and mostly the bauk professors. So we have today at a Belgrade university that 0.1% of students completed one exam within the deadline. When I say 0.1% that it doesn't bother you, only one has finished writing, no one else. We need to get into the depths of the reason. That it is never too late to show the minds of mankind who, in their late years, created their greatest works. I will list only a few, Plato, the 5th and 6th centuries, one of the greatest Greek philosophers and educators, completed the work "Laws" in the 1980s, and its best work "State" in the 60th year of life. Sophocles, 5th century BC In his 89th year, he staged "Edipa". Galileo Galileo, 16th and 17th centuries, one of the largest Italian astronomers, physicists, philosophers and mathematicians, completed his work “Dialogs on New Sciences ” in his 72nd year of life. The famous philosopher Emanuel Kant, in the 18th and 19th centuries, therefore, the German philosopher wrote a criticism of "The Power of Trial" in 66 years of life. Viktor Igor, 19th and 20th centuries, wrote the novel "The Ninety-three" in his 70s. The Smoldaka Army, ours, in the 1990s, perfected physical culture and its connection to medicine. I will only have one more, I could list hundreds of scientists who have completed their scientific works in late years, which is our former student Slavomir Stojanovic, a well-known graphic Belgrade designer, graduated from college after 30 years. And behold, before that, he received a dozen prizes and a reward for his life's work, from that particular case that ended 30 years later. You know why? It's the bauk professor. One academic, the last one I quote, couldn't graduate from college, published 40 books and 300 scientific papers, an average of 9.50 for a teacher who told him when she died to take her place, right here in the middle of Belgrade. Let me not further quote, but in the end, let me say a few sentences at the end. After this extension, and we will extend to the students, I urge them not to think about how much, whether it's a year or more, but to focus on the exams they're supposed to take, after we adopt this in a few days, I'll sleep peacefully that night. I'm also hoping that 6,000 students who are now following us right now, their parents, and I believe that, gentlemen, MPs of position and opposition, both of them, will sleep well that night. I hope that the night will sleep well with Dragan Djilas, called "Djiki Mafia", Saša Radulovic, called "King of Banks", Vuk Jeremic, called "Vlah Wolf", Saša Jankovic, called "Sale Prangia", Janko Veselinović called "stanokradica", Đorđe Vukadinovic called "Vlah", Zoran Lutovac called "Zalutovac", Bosko Obradovic called "Lipicaner", Boris Tadic and Nenad Canak called "Gicoje" and many others from "The Alliance for Failure" of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43206	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Djordje Vukadinovic reported on what basis? (Jorge Vukadinović: I'm mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43207	I thank the chairman. Of course, I'm not going to say anything special, just to draw attention first of all to you, Mr. Chairman and all the presidents, that it is necessary on behalf of the protection of the dignity of this house that you do not allow such discussions. So, I think those damages, I'm not even hurt, I'm not even looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I just don't think they're helping a lot of the ruling majority right now, but that's their problem, but they're really breaking the dignity of this house and this assembly. In such a way to talk about colleagues and MPs and those present and not present simply devalued, especially given the importance of the topic, because today we are most of the part, I have just praised the beginning of this debate and I better not have, it seems that I have given both the tone and the discussion, it turns out that in fact the whole afternoon and most of the afternoon debate has passed about in this tone in which then my colleague has somehow stamped it. So, does he think it's effective, does he think it's attractive, does he think it brings points, I don't know where it brings points, but the fact is in such a way, plus the material errors in listing these great figures that in their sublime high years have achieved some achievements. I'm saying, there were some material mistakes, but it doesn't matter now. The important thing is that we did this topic, maybe it was intent, and maybe not, to get out of focus, and the focus was, and I wasn't able to talk about it in this discussion, about why pensions, first why they were abolished, if they were lifted, why aren't they coming back? So, it's nice that the pension reduction rate is lifted, but it's not clear why we've spent so much time on, I'd say, irrelevant things, instead of asking a key question and ending it, if the economic parameters, if the economic situation is as good as the authorities and the ruling majority say, which is why it wasn't going to be a continuous retirement return, instead of waving in this way as good ruler Sulejman who goes around the country and then says, "Here, now I'm going to raise my pensions, so I'm going to give you three grand, five grand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43208	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. (Marco Atlagic: Replica. ) Dr. Marko Atlagic, you do not have the right to reply, a colleague of Vukadinović has thus avoided mentioning you successfully. Marko Atlagic: How? Before me, it's... I don't know, maybe I hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Marco Atlagic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106 and 107) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43209	The Honorable Chairman, I really didn't insult anyone, I can give them half an hour, but I won't, I have papers here, I brought one seven kilos where journalists, analysts, called these people like this, but in one minute I'll try to say one thing, on April 14, 2011, one sheet, the title says, "The police comb the king of bankruptcy." On the 16th of April 2011, "King of Banks Saša Radulović ate sugars". I'll just have the headlines. Next, on 27 April 2011, the title, one leaf, "captured by the bankruptcy of Saša Radulovic". On 31.2.2016, a paper titled "Radulovic, Bruco, how much money you stole". For each of you I have quotes like this. Here they are, here, sir, who you objected to. You know I never speak in my head. But I can see that even that word, "gico," I didn't mean what you mean. I was referring to a National MP in Romania, who is so called, who is a contradictory figure, as well as one of our MPs here, who does the same work, and here in this country. What you're thinking, the representatives of a party on the right of me were calling it in 2000, not to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43210	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. We can move on. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43211	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several legislative proposals ahead of us, of which my focus will be on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. As apostrophe in the context of the proposed law, the need for further reform and regulation of pension and disability insurance began in 2002, with a fundamental goal of creating conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system. In fact, the governments of many countries have faced a crisis of national pension systems. The current demographic situation, living longer and fewer children are born, has led to the fact that the state pension system that appears in most countries as the basic form of pension insurance has become unsustainable. On the one hand, the state pension system is too expensive for the state, and on the other hand, it does not provide pension benefits that can provide a decent life in old age. The state pension system is organized according to Bismark's model. It is based on the principle of intergenerational solidarity, where active insurance companies extract income contributions to pay pension benefits from such funds. The main factor affecting the functioning of the state pension system is the ratio of the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners. For the sound functioning of this system, it takes between 3 and 3.5 times more active insurance than pensioners. Serbia, with its unfavourable demographic characteristics several decades ago, had 3.5 times more workers than pensioners, and today there are only 1.5 times more workers, which produces the need to donate the state out of the budget to pay pension benefits. In particular, the negative ratio of active insurance and pensioners occurred during the economic crisis, when 400,000 jobless workers remained in the period from 2008 to 2012, while at the same time there was an unwarranted increase in pensions of over 20%, which produced a deficit of nearly 170 billion dinars, and the share of pensions in GDP was 13.8%, and the state of Serbia had to allocate 45% from the budget. This was one of the results of the radical rule of the previous regime, manifested through the robbery privatisation of corruption affairs, when they were personally rich, the people were poor, and the public finances led to a break-in, and the liquidity of the budget was only 15 days. Such irresponsible authority has left half a pension in the budget, and everything else has been robbed, kidnapped, taken to the other side. Due to this particularly negative state of action, which led the Serbian state to the brink of bankruptcy, the government of the Republic of Serbia was forced to bring extorted and difficult measures, so that the system of public finances would survive in the first place. This has also produced the adoption of a Law on the Temporary Regulation on how pensions are paid, which is abolished by the bill, whose primary aim was to ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system, and thus the sustainability of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the country's macroeconomic stability. No matter how paradoxical it sounds, the adoption of the law was precisely for the purpose of protecting pensioners, because if it had continued with the existing way of paying off pensions, the system would have been destroyed and their payment was disabled throughout a very recent period. I suggest that Serbia is not the only country that had to resort to such measures. Many other countries have done so, such as Spain, Greece, Romania, Slovenia, Estonia, Latvia and many others. It wasn't haughtiness, it wasn't arrogance. It was a difficult decision that had to be made, which had a fundamental goal for Serbia to survive, because the previous regime led the country to ruin and no moment thought about the future, but how to last from one election cycle to another. Therefore, for the adoption of such a law, there was a public interest, which is reflected in the need to preserve the stability of the state's economic system under the conditions of the financial crisis, the settlement of the state's obligations and ensuring the smooth performance of all state functions and tasks. That is why it is also important to give this opportunity a huge recognition and gratitude to the pensioners who have made a huge contribution to Serbia out of the hopelessness that the then government has pushed him into and to go through a difficult path to surpluses in the budget and stable public finances, which give us the basis for improving the conditions of life for all to find citizens. Taking into account the positive effects of our country's economy and the financial situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget, all the reasons for further application of the Law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. In this context, I suggest that the share of pensions in GDP is reduced from 13.8 to 11, as much as the standard on which the IMF insists, with a tendency to further reduce that share. Also, the share of pensions paid from the budget is reduced from a huge 45% to about 30%, and financial discipline and contribution payments are increasing. There is also a balance between the macroeconomic position, and there will also be a rise in consumption that could further push our food industry. Finally, there is another argument, which is to correct the relationship between pensions, expressing a social and political desire for greater solidarity within the public pension system. Finally, I am sure that the adoption and application of the proposed law will achieve the stated objectives, and therefore, the SNS parliamentary group will be very pleased to support this and all other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43212	Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43213	Thank you. Dear Minister Sarčević with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will remain in my presentation at the amendments and additions of the Law on PIO, a law that has been quite often amended and complemented in the last two decades in order for our pension system to be settled and consolidated, but often without any greater success, unfortunately. We are now in a position to solve inherited problems and correct things that have been abandoned and conducted for years by totally non-resistance procedures, especially if they are in the light of the criteria required for retirement. Since the pension fund is a provision for the future, in order for the pension fund to function in a sustainable manner without the grant of budget funds, we need to have three employees on one pensioner. In 2014, statistics show that in Serbia, this relationship was 1.4 to one pensioner, and now 1.5 to one. If I'm wrong, you correct me. It is known that there are 1,717,000 pensioners in Serbia. This and such proportion puts us in a position to pay out of the budget, and in the name of pensioners, they're big and they're a burden on the government's register. On the other hand, the PIO itself is a very complex and demanding system. This government and the competent ministry want long-term positive effects with amendments and additions to the law. the sustainability of the PIO system. The PIO itself and its functioning depend on the age structure of the population, migration opportunities, GDP, employment levels, regional and general economic opportunities and many other factors. For a long time, we have faced many problems as a society, such as the decline of unemployment, the adverse economic situation, the state of the nation in terms of age. It is known that the fourth nation in Europe is the age of the population, too, the problem of the morbidity and mortality of the population. We have dealt with and faced abuses of various species, with no settlement of contributions, expenditure growth relative to incomes, which is inevitably reflected in the functioning of the PIO system. However, the country's accelerated development, fiscal consolidation measures, 68 thousand new jobs, direct foreign investment and all other measures that the country's president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, the government and the ministry are conducting to heal our country's economy, which will inevitably reflect the improvement of the PIO Fund. The measures are aimed at improving the position of pensioners. The measures are not restrictive and lead to an improvement in the position of the insurance and user. The government and the ministry take care of improving the social status of pensioners and want to improve their status and ensure the sustainability of the PIO system, greater legal certainty for users, the efficiency of the work of the PIO Fund administration, so we expect the results to be visible as soon as possible. Amendments and additions to this law are the first sign of the country's accelerated development. We SNS MPs will support this bill in the voting day, as well as other draft laws and agreements on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43214	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. He's not there. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. He's not in the O.R. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. There's no time. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. She's not present. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43215	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with co-workers, are among other things on the agenda today also those laws relating to the continuation of the reform of education in Serbia. I am always pleased to see the laws relating to this area because I believe that the minister and his team are doing a serious job in reforming education in Serbia. This job is very important and very difficult because there is great power in education, but this power is not seen in the money that flows through education, but it is seen precisely that education is crucial both for the survival and development of a nation. Now we think, of course, of the Serbian nation. I hope that as soon as possible what we heard from the minister and his team will be announced, which is that secondary education will be mandatory in Serbia. No matter how many students we have, 85% of them are students. children now included in high school, however, the percentage of those who do not have primary school, who have incomplete elementary school or who have completed primary school alone, for me the percentage is too high. So I think the introduction of compulsory high school education will certainly increase the number of those who will finish primary school, which will also finish high school. Also, what the ministry must be commended for is that violence in schools has been put in place, as it would say, in public interest. We talk about it almost every day, we talk about how much of the problem it is, until recently, it wasn't about that. A school violence prevention team has been created within the ministry and should popularise the team, it should know as many as possible that whenever violence occurs in schools they can call on the violence prevention team and that the team from the ministry comes out on the spot. As far as potential Serbian science is concerned, which is that six months ago, it was introduced. A institute for improving education that will deal with national programmes in the future, both in the Republic of Serbia and in Republika Srpska, as well as in those schools that have organised classes for Serbian children in the diaspora and in the region. I think that the work of this Educational Promotion Office will partially eliminate that gap that we had around the Book publishing office, and how many percent of the textbooks are issued by one publisher, as many as the other and so on. It must be stressed that this Institute will create a unique national programme in the field of history, geography, literature, language and culture. When it comes to the potential of Serbian science, we certainly should not forget one of the, in my opinion, major amendments to today's Law on Higher Education, which is the addition of Article 83, which deals with lecturers, i.e. Serbian language lecturers at higher education institutions abroad. It is very important that we deal with this, and it seems to me that there is not enough time in today's session dedicated precisely to Serbian language teachers, above all, because abroad lecturers are becoming less and less and are being put out to lecture Serbian language abroad. In 2000, we had a number of 47 lecturers. However, in 2001, the Republic Institute for International Scientific, Cultural, Technical and Educational Co-operation was shut down, and the concern of lecerates did not shift to any ministry in general. From 2001 to 2009, a partial work of lecturers abroad with some 150 euros a month and a commission that was then with the Ministry of Education is sort of a lecherates business, but means not entirely as the 2001 Institute did. So today we have a situation where we don't know how many lessons there are at international universities, that these foreign lecturers are not funded, that we have a big problem with that. So, I very much welcome this initiative that the minister and his team, regardless of what they may say, have gone into a lot of education issues, have been tackled by this problem. We are also predicting this article the concept, and the conditions, and the way of choice, and the financing of lecturers in Serbia. This area needs to be arranged because I believe that Serbian language lecturers are in some way ambassadors of the Serbian language. The same way that Wolf and Dossetius, through their friends in Europe, promoted the new Serbian language at the time, I think these lecturers can in some way be ambassadors of our language and language, culture, and society as a whole. Not only do I think these changes in education are very good, but they are in line with the government's programme, the part about education, so my absolute support in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43216	Thank you, colleague Mike. The word is Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43217	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. I find it sad that the SNS, as you can see, is a more important party meeting than pensioners who need to get their pensions back...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43218	How did I violate my colleague Bozovic's 107th and the dignity of the National Assembly? Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. You know we have a great and very correct relationship, but it doesn't make sense. I didn't hurt any Rules of Procedure. I'm going to have to take your time from the MP's group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43219	The thing is, you didn't take a break. Let them finish the meeting, and then they'll come back, and we'll talk seriously. Sinisha Mali isn't here. Minister Sarcevic really is. There are two MPs, I think, 120 SNS, and I don't know how many there are. So, what I'm saying is that it's an important topic. I think the citizens expect us to have a quality discussion. I think they expect to get a pension increase, as promised, but they can't do it by no one in the congregation room. They refuse to speak in order, as you see yourself, and then without any pause, the rest are only MPs of the opposition, of course, two ministers and, as I say, they will not adopt what we propose, of course, but rather those who are not in the Assembly today. Let's see or declare a break until they get back from the party meeting, but let's not say priority is the SNS's main board, not the Retirement Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43220	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. I really don't know. I didn't break the Rules of Procedure. You know, we don't need a quorum. I don't know where any of the MPs went, got out, but if this composition and these people who are in the O.R. isn't enough for one quality debate, I really don't know what to say. Look on your side. There is Aleksandra Jerkov, and Vesovic from Dvora, and the people of PUPS, SDP, from SNS, two ministers. I don't know what you want. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I guess it's in our best interest to have the quality of the debate, not whether we're 50 or 70 or 150. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43221	Article 103, Mr. Chairman. If there's any time left for these sad remains of DS to be taken away, I think this is the right time. So there was absolutely no reason for Mr Bozovic to comment here on the fact that we do have a session of the main committee. It's no secret. That he might come out a little bit on the big screen and show a little bit how wise he is. Right? And we already know that very well. When he feels the need, Mr. Bozovic, to stand up like this and show how wise he is. The real reason and good reason would be to think, as they like to say, of value, according to the president of his Alliance, of his tycoon Latvian alliance, of Željko Vesenovic. I just thought for a while that's why he got up. If he had stood up to comment on these words of his president, his paintings and images and images and occasions of the value of his DS, and these are the following words by Željko Vesenovica – E, well dear ficus prime minister, he addresses the Prime Minister of Serbia, this country, just so you know, I want you to be locked up by this same Mitrovica in four walls, without a key, with one endowed African-American, listen, these are your words, Mr Bozovic, just released from prison and that show the people watching for a few months, so that I can see if afterwards defend the worst of this world scum. It's culture, it's education, it's respect for women. It is all the most beautiful and best they think, what they want us to do and what Mr. Bozovic, his friends and associates from the yellow company, DS, but everyone else who belongs to the same system of values and the tycoon Ljatić coalition. Whenever next time he wishes Mr Bozovic to stand up here with nothing to be challenged and to comment on something of particular importance, it would be good to tell us if he agrees with these words. Since he obviously agrees, to tell us how proud he is that these are his values and that he may also complement us, I am sure, a wise exposure, since it is always wise, by answering the question – Has he mastered all the pieces of Dimitri Ljotic, because they are now, too, his values? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43222	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves on Vote Day? No, I don't. Let's get on with the work. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's. (Balsa Bozovic: On what basis? Is it in the order of the speakers? Order of the speaker, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43223	I thank the chairman. Given that my colleagues, as well as the authorised representative of the SPS, supported the full set of laws we are discussing today, I have no reason to particularly comment on the quality of the proposed laws, have in mind that he is not suspicious, both in the field of PIO and in the area of higher education, and in this direction I will join, both colleagues Djorđa Milicevic and colleagues Žarko Obradovic, who is indeed extremely professional, I hope the ministers, gave quality reasons why this bill should be brought to life and in his practical application to his full contribution. I'm going to commit to several agreements that are classically from my profession, which is why I'm obliged, in a way, to commit myself to them, and these are agreements on international co-operation in matters of criminal law. For what? Because without providing international legal assistance in criminal matters, especially in the situation of increased citizens' movement, when sophisticated means are criminal acts, i.e. against legal action, and it is a transnational character of crime, then it is logical that agreements relating to international legal aid must have a very high importance both in this assembly and through our debate to deserve special attention. This is especially because in 2013, the Justice Ministry received as much as 8,000 requests for international legal aid. The fact is that this international legal aid is particularly necessary today, given that we have witnessed that we have had one extradition from Bulgaria, or extradition, when it comes to the perpetrators of the crimes of a very large degree of social danger, clans, etc. Given that it has stopped, or that I no longer have time for discussion, I will only conclude that without these agreements, the state of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice would be seriously deprived of international legal assistance and therefore, Ministers, you have the support of the SAA and in this part of the proposed laws we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43224	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43225	Thank you, Your Honor. The respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, all proposed laws and agreements, so 28 proposed agreements will have full support for the JS parliamentary group. Unique Serbia as a socially responsible party, headed by our President and Honorary Consul of the Republic of Greece in Serbia, respected Dragan Markovic Palm, leads responsible social policy and care for all citizens of Serbia, as well as pensioners, so we will give full support when it comes to the PIO law. As for the second law, the law on higher education, of course, we will also support the law on higher education, which has put students who are completing studies under the old programme to give them a period of additional study, so that I do not see any reason not to support this law and not to support our students and education. In particular, when it comes to 28 proposed agreements, I would like to highlight the proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece on co-operation in the field of tourism, as well as the proposal for a law confirming a social security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. So that all these agreements, and in particular I would point out the friendly relationship between Greece, then the Republic of China and us friendly Russia, which is in favour of the fact that these countries show a friendly and kind attitude towards Serbia. I see opposition representatives resent when I said that JS is taking care of pensioners, words here are too high. We've had criticism when it comes to some Twitter warrants from some of the representatives of the family parties. Words can be said by anyone, but actions are the most important, when it comes to JS's relationship to pensioners, and we will continue to help pensioners, as well as to support a law that is positive and in favour of pensioners. When it comes to the law submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Minister Djordjevic, in your opening statement you convinced us that Serbia is now leading a good economic policy, which is one condition for increasing pensions in Serbia, i.e. we now have the situation that these amendments and amendments to the law should be abolished by the Law on the temporary reduction of pensions and pensioners to return the pension ratio that was in October 2014. By adopting the law, already in October, or by paying off in November, pensioners will be able to raise pensions. We also expect, given the surplus in the budget and the properly-led economic policy, that the government will make a proposal in the coming period to further increase pensions, as well as to raise wages in the public sector. We do not doubt the good will of the promoters and we from the JS believe that the Republic of Serbia headed by President Aleksandr Vukic leads a responsible and stable economic policy, which shows a surplus in the budget. The PIO Fund as we could hear is stable and there are enough funds in the budget and that's positive news. So Serbia has exited the deficit, for three years we have a surplus in the budget, and in 2014 it was in front of a financial bankruptcy. The decision that was then made was the most affected by pensioners who may be the most important pillar of society, and we must continue to fight further, so that pensioners can continue to live with dignity, so that we must never again allow pensioners to continue to help their children and grandchildren. Of course, there are local self-governments that help all citizens, especially pensioners, sick and old people. We have an example of the city of Jagodina, which allows free transport to pensioners, free transport to clinical centres and hospitals, and also officials in Jagodina do not use their official cars, but use them by citizens, using them old and sick. These are all positive examples that besides the positive law and local self-government they should also provide full support when it comes to pensioners, old and sick. So, to sum up, all economic indicators are good. The aim is to eliminate temporary pension cuts and raise pensions that have never been higher. Of course we will support the realization of this goal. So all changes are in the interest of pensioners and pensioners will have full support for JS. Also, Minister Djordjevic and Secretary of State Nenad Neric, I would like to thank you, as I come from the Municipality of Alexandrovac, because they have invested as the Ministry and State Secretariat a huge effort for the Children's Support Society with special needs, or children distracted in development, to find a way to solve the problem of labour congestion, to give these children full support in continuing to use their services. As for the second law, or to say the third law, the proposal for a law on higher education, these amendments and additions to the law, we give a chance, or we give the chance of a more effective and effective study and so that the state should have a higher education chamber. JS MPs don't see an obstacle to giving these students a chance, as many as there are now, about 4,000 students. We also had questions on Parliament's website, that students under the old programme, whose studies last five and six years, might be further proposed to extend the deadlines if there is a need for this. Also, Minister Sarčević, thank you for keeping your word when it comes to rural schools, especially when it comes to Rasinski County. Your associates went around this field. We have, not so big, but problems with certain rural schools in mountain areas...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43226	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43227	Let me just finish, ask the minister a question. So, we have a problem with the village school in Ploca, where it was submitted to the Ministry of Request. It has expressed a positive will and an investment investment office, so I ask that we solve this problem as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43228	Thank you, colleague. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43229	I just mentioned the amount of funds for two years, and I'll tell you what we're planning for next year. We, as Ministry of Justice, from the means of opportunity, even the Ministry of Labour, Social and Other Affairs, Ministry of Economy and, of course, the Office that works for us. And there are projects that we inherited, over 100 projects that were in the project management unit, that were stopped, over 70 and we did something. So we'll get there. In the budget, surely, when we are here in the Assembly, we will put that for our Ministry we have two priorities, one of the schools that are still in poor condition, the absolute priority and priority will be three groups of schools from where we want to show that, according to the old strategy, the full-time teaching with extended children in school is at all levels of primary school, something that we will start as a pilot program this year, in walking. We'll automatically go where smaller schools see how we do it, where schools are already empty, and those schools in some urban areas where there's enough outside space, and fewer classrooms inside. So we're gonna concentrate all the investments on these categories and I think the school will be on top of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43230	Thank you, Minister. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. He's not there. The next is MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected co-workers of ministers, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members, I will place the focus of my discussion, you are just assuming, since I am from the PUPS MP, so on the PIO Act. This law, as it has always been, is now and a being, one of the basics that regulates only the realisation of social policy, which, with social justice, characterises and is part of the definition of this state. The social program's anticipating future time, of course, but it has to respect the existing state. In order to plan the future, real reality must necessarily be seen. This means that without economic recovery and stability, there are no conditions for the realisation of social policy overall and position, in this case we are concerned, pensioners, pensioners, social, material and each other. That is why we, the PUPS as a party and its parliamentary group, supported the plan and programme of the prime minister and government in 2014 for the country's fiscal recovery, i.e. a reduction above the average pensions of 22% to 25%. And, fully aware of what that means and what burden should be borne, proud of that contribution, I can freely say getting out of this country's crisis. Convinced of further recovery and stabilisation, we have sought, and this law really does bring pensions back to the level of October 2014, for us and all pensioners it is one of the most significant new provisions of this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the law. We see this law as the first starting link in access to reform of the pension system in general. A complex, broad and deep transformation of society on a social basis is needed in the direction of achieving social justice. Many elements, developmental directions both on the world's agenda and on our part, when it comes to technical and technological development, automation, robotics, etc., suggest that it must be approached by a very large task, which is the reform of the pension system. It can't be done fast, it has to last for a long time. It requires wide-ranging social dialogue that we, as the PUPS, have called for at the beginning of this year. It requires not only that which is before us, but also a series of laws and regulations. It must be projected and implemented in stages. This law in this strategic project will suffer a mandatory and imminent further upgrade, and we see this law as an initial phase in this regard. The system of intergenerational solidarity that lasted for decades and survived in the world remained irrevocable in the past. One of the objectives of the reform is also the most difficult in this reform, as it must lead to redistribution on new foundations in all societies, as well as in ours. So PUPS has launched a dialogue, we offer a proposal, not a final solution. We expect a constructive broad discussion and a healthy atmosphere. Participants in the interview must inevitably be representative trade unions, associations and associations of pensioners, among the first Alliance of Pensioners, the non-governmental sector, the professional public, representatives of the government and all relevant political parties, of course, and as the final word of this Assembly. This law is an initial step towards adopting sustainable legal solutions that will regulate the problem of serious reform of the pension system. Finally, SNS President Aleksandar Vucic showed the willingness to leave part of the responsibility to coalition partners, although he did not need it, since they have a large majority, was given us as a coalition partner the opportunity to propose solutions. We also did what I said and we also show that we are still doing it. As a reliable and constructive partner and part of the ruling coalition, the PUPS assumes responsibility and therefore initiates reform of the pension system, and the PUPS parliamentary group, in line with what I have presented, will support the Amendments and Supplements Act on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43232	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The next speaker is Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Minister, in this time I have, I will speak of two laws. The first is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. There are things that are less controversial to me, and there are things that are good, and there are things that, in my opinion, are very difficult. It is not a questionable fact that by changing this law we will extend the time of study to those who have been studying for a long time, regardless of what you and I have discussed a year ago, that this will be the last time, with the understanding of all the difficulties they could have had during their studies. I'll go back to the end when I comment on this and ask the question that I asked and then, which I didn't get the answer to either then or in changing the law that you're working on right now. I don't think it's any difference between these Bologna students who were in the first generations of studying under the Bologna programme to solve their study deadlines on the recommendations they were and then I think it's been extorted, but still for them a good solution, but I find it controversial that in all this, I repeat again, Mr. Minister, there are no good students anywhere. Those who, in time, end with high averages and who, unfortunately, because of our solutions like this, often leave the country to Serbia. That's what I think is less controversial in this law. It's a great story about lecturers. I absolutely support it, and all those efforts that you have in terms of preservation and Serbian language and tradition, you always have absolute support for my personal and Serbian Dvora movement. But right now I have to tell you what's very controversial about me in this law. Articles 14 and 18. We can never agree, Mr. Minister, that if a student has not completed his primary studies, and he's enrolling in postgraduate studies that all responsibility must be borne by the institution that enrolled him, so college. I can't accept that someone who enrolls in postgraduate studies doesn't know that he hasn't finished his basic studies. It's very naive to me, and I'm a serious man and I think that responsibility should be on both sides. Not to say that we have brought this bill into the legal inequality of those who do so legally with those who do so illegally. Not to say that I can draw the conclusion that in this way the Ministry becomes the mother of "bad guys" who will in one way or another throw out the fact that they have not completed their basic studies, and becomes a stepmother to those who regularly conduct their study process in both primary and postgraduate studies. In 1888, the famous Serbian lawyer from Cavtat, Mr Bogisic, translated that Latin thought and said – what the coat of arms did not correct. We're making it back, Mr. Minister, and I don't think the weather of this, if we bring it in like this, will be able to fix it. Article 18 of the law is also absolutely controversial for me. Facultys that have not had accreditation, and where postgraduate studies have been conducted, will be able to, if it is estimated that PhDs are not plagiarized or otherwise done, admit these Ph.D.s as such. Once again, we have brought underrated people who were aware and knew that before enrolling in postgraduate studies they had to ask whether the university had accreditation for what they wanted to be trained professionally. Because when we do this, you just mentioned the question and your options that you have about high-school corruption. I never doubt, Mr. Minister, your well-meaning, and I believe so. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that these days at the Law Faculty, people who have been highly accused in the Index affair have been put up for teaching and produced for finance? Do you know that bribery and corruption do not go out of date for 30 years and that the KAPK decision, which was issued on 5 September 2014, is a report on the external quality of the work at the Faculty of Law at the University of Kragujevac, in this way? Or we'll wait, perhaps, for the gentleman who is the chairman of the board of directors of the KAPK, Mr Sima Avramovic, who was otherwise on the SNS list, to return from Italy to change that decision of the CAPK, to make the person who did the interpretation of the Constitution so-called. Kosovo states were pro-educed for teaching at that university? Is that what we need to do? I'm really asking you to get your information you have, or this came after the rector's shift, at someone's moment and under some party books, as they say. Check it out, Ministers, I know you'll do it, but these actions cast doubt, and something that we're seriously doing may disrupt us, not to mention that the prominent legal experts, Mr. Markovic and Popov, have written about this interpretation of the Constitution of the face that should now be a lecturer or a proctor for finance. I was talking about this case of this Assembly, which was ordered to register on page 36 a student's grade, and they have a stenographic record, to be a fund-raiser. It was never possible for a goat to keep cabbage, or those people who took bribes, and these do not grow out of age for college finances. Just a few more words with Mr. Djordjevic, Mr. Minister, the other day we quoted what Mr. President of the State Aleksandar Vukic said on 10 March 2014 before the pensions were reduced. We quoted and we said it was false, and you said it was nice to learn wise quotes. I can understand your political desire to say so, but the truth can only have a rougher name, and it can't be a wise quote. And, one more thing, when you were talking about salaries, I'm going to quote you now, you said pay good attention to who had a salary of 50,000, they're going to have a salary of 53,954 dinars, which is 9% higher. The math says it's not 9%, and you're telling the truth, and I'm not going to believe it's an untrue quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43234	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43235	I'll try for time and it says how much we're left to cut short and make myself very clear. The affair index is in the jurisdiction of the judiciary, you know that. The rector's shift hasn't changed all the participants and behaviors at the University of Kragujevac. So as long as I was informed yesterday, there's been a dean shift from medical school, so some things are going on there and they're not after the shift. As for Belgrade, I will examine, I have not arrived, I will see Professor Avramovic and everything that may be happening. As for members 14 and 18 for 14, the intention is that this is no longer happening. So this is an inherited condition and everything like I told you. Not just this medical case in Kragujevac, but a lot of private ones to get to the students as soon as possible, come on, no matter what, so you're going to get them, I think they're more responsible for that level, but if they get banned and they're in trouble, so it can't happen anymore, that clerk on the enrolment will say, I'm sorry, you don't have papers, come back, etc. We don't amnesty students, but it's not the same degree of responsibility to put them in the same basket, we just talked about Professor Korać and I on Friday. It's not cute to find a smarter solution than this, but at least it's the intention of not happening anymore. You've seen that in a member of the law, we've also installed a Anti-Corruption Agency, which now has a rightful opinion, of course, about the appointment of these people. So there's no nepotism and it hasn't happened, because you know yourself that ethical committees haven't exactly broken up with some ethics, and if I'm talking about people highly educational and there should be an example of everything else. When it comes to these other categories of people aren't, I'm going to do it again maybe more times and in the media here, they weren't the problem of unaccredited colleges. They had two rounds of accreditation from the same body of the CAPK. In the third round, they realized that when they moved to Bologna they didn't report that they didn't have, so, doctoral studies, there were no doctoral studies. There was, so master's studies and it went to the doctor's thesis. So there was one legal vacuum, and so we examined not the 20 institutions that KAPK suggested rather than the media made the affair bigger than the truth. So, I mentioned that it may be more than 1,500 people who would be terribly damaged, which could sue the state for a great reason if someone has confirmed it twice through accreditation, then you have the full right of uncertainty that retroactively some law applies to you. Then he asks me to say the question, what about maybe tens of thousands of students as we've been counting roughly somewhere. So this is where the point should be put, says the National Council for High, all members, absolutely unanimous. You know, there was even Mr Popovic who was a member of the CAPK. Sir, so, Kovacevic's ex-rector, so I'm talking about serious people. What's most important to tell you, we're going to be somewhere real quick with another law here and they're going to solve these questions for the good students we're talking about, and that's the law on student and student standard where we intend to introduce a double scholarship system and what's called double-high, it might be funny when we talk about it, but you can't find any engineers in the fourth year to get hired by the company now, give him a scholarship, not even a third, at the Faculty of Engineering, not at any university in Serbia or at ETF. So they're very willing companies, and we're negotiating that the amount of money is very large. So, according to Germany and other models, the cost of living in Serbia is similar. Since it's a very important workforce, they don't need it here in Germany, they need it here, they save them the difference in cost of life, and that's something we look through interest. If one part of the young people we take care of, they stay here and they stay on good terms, then we remain to finance what we determine by quality to say the state is perspective. So, various technologies, a number of other things that we're finding. If we get a lot of foreign students, including philology and everything else, and of course we work on quality indicators. The third level of scholarships are for good students no matter what they study, as they have studied so far. So it's a major change in the entire paradigm around it. Of course, let her study as much as she wants, and that's where I agree with my colleague Jerkov and everyone, but if someone finishes within the deadline, before the deadline and so on, like in my time, you're not giving her back a loan, you get a scholarship and all the other benefits, and that's what needs to be seen, and we'll talk about it soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43236	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43237	Thank you. Mr. Vesovic, just a few notes, to be exact in statistics and mathematics. So whoever retired in 2014 before the $50,000 cut, he's receiving 47,606 dinars today. After the suspension will have 53,954 or 13.33%, that's what the president said more than before it was abolished. So they're going to have more than the current pension, they're going to have 13.3%. Compared to the 2014 pension, it will have 7.91%. Let's take another pension that wasn't cut back then, that's 23,000. Whoever had 23,000 pensions, so it's not reduced, he's receiving 24.819 dinars today, he's going to receive 26.060 dinars, or 13.3% more after this abolition of this law. It's math. Now we can all go pensions, but that's what the president said was moving from 8 to 13.3% that's the only thing that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43238	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43239	Well, because of Mr. Vesovic's words about some heavy untruth that can have even more difficult formulations, was it so? Of course, he alluded to what Bosko Obradovic was doing two or three days ago when he pointed to the words of the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic in 2014. We understand what he's talking about, right? As far as the truth is concerned, you know who loves them here, you know who practices them here. In 2014 because he liked Bosko Obradović to talk about the campaign period, in 2014 by playing the case, I participated actively in SNS campaigns and at every but literally every meeting, words were clearly heard – difficult and painful reforms. That is what we have announced to the citizens of Serbia. That's what we got the mandate for. This is what we did so that in the end the effect will be for these citizens of Serbia the best and they understand it well. Those who pretend that they didn't understand or that they forgot, they have a problem that, well, there are us who remember these things perfectly. Bosko Obradovic here can say whatever he wants on the subject of his interpretation of what it was meant to mean, but it is known, once again, who loves the truth and who serves them alone. He said here two or three days ago – it's not true that the salaries were cut before retirement. There's been a cut in wages. He said it was not true that savings were being made at the level of the government or the Assembly. Well, they did, they did. How many of those official cars, some of whom loved to be used senselessly, were expelled from use on that basis? How many diaries have been reduced both at the government level and at the Assembly level? How much senseless spending has been eliminated before we have concluded - we will have to approach that pension arrangement as well? All of these citizens understood perfectly. Don't worry about them, worry about your needs to interpret other people's words in an unfair way. Speaking of words you'd like to forget, here's Bosko Obradović's words right here from the end of 2013. Listen to them carefully. "Dear Gilas is not known what he did and what he did until he entered the DS in 2004. Since then, his company's profits have been growing hundreds of times. Gilas's greatest fortune is being resold by advertising seconds at RTS, by hiring his services companies in the city's administrations in Belgrade, whose mayor, by obtaining clients of state-owned enterprises under the control of DS and foreign companies who before that provide privileged business or robbery privatisation in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43240	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43241	... which is all an unrecorded kind of media monopoly," I will finish, Mr. Chairman. Bosko Obradovic, who said things like this during that period, is somehow trying to remember, and today Dragan Gilas is his personal role model and idol. Here is the picture and opportunity of that Veselinović we talked about today and the proof that the very ones who are real society are gathered together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43242	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, first Mr. Minister Djordjevic. You just did, and about that there are now these stenographic records, you made a lapus minister. So it can't be if it's 50,000 pensions, so it's up to 53,954, it can never be 8%, but it's 7.9% of what you said. Today we agreed, and it's true that 13% relative to 47, but you said, I quote, it's between 50,000 and 53.954 percent. Math is exact. That's not 8%. So much for that. As for my colleagues who spoke to me to interpret the words of Mr. Obradovic, I can only interpret my words and can interpret what the newspaper publishes and what is written as a quote, and what is useful as part of my political performance at some point. So, personally, a thought that Ava Cassians spoke to me is very often in my mind, and she says, “I didn’t feel like getting hurt from my tongue. ” Whoever figured it out is the one who understood. Thank you. I take care of what I say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43244	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, followed by Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43245	Well, it's because you have to take care of what's said, which is why I've been reacting, gentlemen. If Mr. Vesovic hadn't given himself the right here to mention the words of the President of the Republic and to tell the truths that can be called and more drastically, it wouldn't be necessary for me to remind him of everything he would like to forget. There would be no need for me to remind him of the words of Bosko Obradovic, his president and that, of course, has to do with his political engagement. That's why I'm talking about this, for God's sake. I don't know if they're published in the papers, but they're on the Strategic Culture Fund. They were signed by Bosko Obradović, a member of the Dvori Eldership on 6 October 2013. I believe there are many reasons for Mr Vesovic to conclude that he is not worth it, that he is not, as he said, useful or instructed to deal with this, but he will have to deal with it because he himself has shown ambition to deal with the words spoken 2013/2014. years, which are either false or can be called even more drastic. I don't know. For example, here I believe that all that Bosko Obradovic then told Dragan Gilas is true, but what he says today is not and then what Bosko Obradovic is saying about Dragan Gilas can be called more drastic than untrue. What exactly am I thinking about? I mean, "Dear Gilas quickly and easily crossed the path from student leader to tycoon media tycoon." Here, Dragan Gilas has announced these days he will sue anyone who calls him a tycoon. Bosko Obradovic, his confidant, his right hand today, called him a tycoon media tycoon. If Dragan Djilas does not sue Bosko Obradovic now, then he deals with untrues, according to Mr. Vesovic, who can be called an even more drastic name. Also, this same text says what we talked about today. Bosko Obradovic said there – Dragan Djilas entered the media business at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's regime and then continues to try to figure out how it was possible at the time. I, for example, believe that this was true, but what today, Mr. Vesovicu, is what Bosko Obradovic is saying, what the rest of your coalition is saying – untrue or worse than that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43246	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43247	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On Monday, the date 10.03.2014, at 14 and 4 minutes, the source “Beta” – Better off our coat of arms than to touch acquired pensioners' rights, but I do not let pensioners touch it. If we were to touch these rights, we would not only create a problem for pensioners, but also for the state, Aleksandar Vukic said at a meeting in the country's "Pinky" Hal. He's retired. I think what's said, and after that, it's a lie, and that's all I have to say about this. I gave you the source, I gave you the time, I gave you the day, and I gave you the place. It's said that I was clearly time-oriented, space and personality, which means I'm aware. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43248	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43249	Well, of course he's aware of Mr. Vesovic. A man can't unwittingly read all the words. He can only very consciously avoid reading them. Bosko Obradovic read them, so you don't worry. He may have done it unconsciously. I don't care, I don't want to get into how he did it, but he read it here. The full formulation is that pensions will be the last thing we do. Before that, I have already told you today, on a number of different levels, all the measures that were necessary to save the country were taken. And when you talk about pensions, you have to, like, want it or not, come back at that time and remember what the ones you're getting along with today professionally, right? Did they ask for even more drastic retirement cuts? They did. Did they ask for even more drastic wage cuts? They did. Did they ask for all of this to be followed by significant gatherings, for example, electricity? They did. Did you agree with that then either you agree today or today you have a problem with your untruth that can be called even more drastically, that's my question? You don't have to accept that the people understand what Aleksandar Vukic said and that's exactly why he got the trust, which is why he didn't want the people to lie, which he didn't want to sell him stories like, for example, Boška Obradovica in October 2013. I just read it to you. So, he was obviously dating here. He was doing what he thought was interesting for someone to read somewhere, get some sympathy. Did Bosko Obradovic seriously think that yellow thieves, as he called them in this text, had ruined the country? Well, it's not. Does Boška Obradovic really care about the people of this country? Well, it's not. Does he really care about how people live and what might happen to them? Well, it's not. Bosko Obradovic, if any of these were important, would determine the second place today from the first chair to Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon, which he spoke of so nicely, he would be somewhere else today, not with the laps of the one he claimed – only if he did not return. That, Mr. Vesovicu, is a relationship to the truth, which can be called even more drastic than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43250	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43251	Finally. Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I had to take this, considering the citizens are watching. You can insult Dragan Gilas who isn't in this House and that's really not right, but you have to know one thing. You can insult any of us, and you can insult me personally. You've done it more than once today. Everything we've done or everything Dragan Gilas has done seems to have been not only a great mayor, but, like the Director of the National Office, he's done a lot for young people in Serbia and Serbia. You'll never be able to, believe me, Mr. Orlic, make one chicken, let alone one school or one kindergarten or any bridge, or you, or your president. So don't talk so easily about people, they're not in this room, and you use words that are so easy to use, which are really going to end up in court. Three hundred thousand dinars ago, you had to pay Dragan Gilas a few weeks ago because you were telling the truth, and you're doing it again. I get the impression that you don't know what to do with the money when you absolutely don't care. So, you're on the board of directors, you're not interested in pensioners and pensions, you're not interested in mud and Dragan Gilas and Maja Vidinović and Aleksandra Jerkov and me, and on the other hand, you have absolutely no idea how you're going to get people back what you took away from them, 700,000 of them have. It's not a handful of people, and even if it is, you have to pay them back, but here it's 700,000 pensioners you took away from. You don't know how to do that, and then you insult Dragan Gilas. Well, it's not his fault that you stole the pensioners, is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43252	Thank you, colleague Bozovic, for not making it clear to me why you applied for the replica. You mention all the time that Dragan Gilas is completely irrelevant to the People's Assembly. Neither is the leader of your party nor is Mr Lutovac mentioned, your party is mentioned, and you are replicating some discussions concerning Dragan Gilas, but good. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43253	I'll explain, Mr. Chairman, to you and the others if it's by chance that someone really doesn't understand. Here it responds to the mention of Dragan Gilas from his obligation. Out of obligation, therefore, they are obliged to protect and defend him. You understand that. We spoke nicely, but they wouldn't listen, before the Belgrade elections in March, they'd have to, they wouldn't, to defend him, because he kept them all in his pocket. They're gonna have to not want to, because he put the debt in his pocket, first made it, and then put it in his pocket to do exactly what you saw today. Jump on the button as soon as he tells them – now get up and defend my character and work. They didn't believe us, as they didn't believe us even when we told them well-meaningly, if they acted as they did, they wouldn't cross the census in Belgrade. We told them - you'd have 3%, they didn't believe, they laughed. We even bought them, so it's not even 3.2.2%. Dragan Gilas was an MP in this assembly, so he decided he wasn't interested, was he? He solved it, he doesn't care about the citizens and this problem and the pensions, anything. A man went to do nice things. He was also a councilman in the City Hall, so he didn't care. Did he come to one session of, what, 44, 45? I don't care about Dragan Gilas, as well as the ones I talked about earlier for both citizens and for the problem and for anything. Now Dragan Gilas is a committeeman again in the City Assembly. Do you think we're not asking him these questions? Of course we're setting up. Do you know what he's doing? Sit down and shut up, draw something at the table. He cares so much that his truth is heard. As far as the court is concerned, I said for a moment, if he's serious and if he's honest, let him sue, let him lead to the court who called him a tycoon. It's still on the Internet today, who's following this right now can go and find that text, if that's the point. If the point is to stick to some 300,000 dinar figures, what was that, is about the total amount that Dragan Gilas got in the name of being a councilman and didn't show up at any of the City Assembly. Does he miss that money? Is he a little? He had little 25m euros that he now has and which he has now reported as property, and sometimes he had when entering the post you mentioned – an old car, 70,000 and some apartment of his wife. Is that all he's got? If there's something to come back to, if you really mean it honestly, first let's get Dragan Gilas back, obviously he's got where from, and we know why he's got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43254	Thank you, colleague Orlic. My colleague Bozovic, with all his wishes and will, I really can't give you a replica. Neither is Mr Lutovac nor the Democratic Party mentioned, I'm really asking you to understand. Thank you. We can move on. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Is he in the O.R.? It's not. Next up is Olena Papuga. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43255	Thank you, Chairman. The pensioners are not and cannot forget that the law passed four years ago took their rights under the Constitution. The government should clearly establish and announce to the pensioners the amount to be compensated by the state for the period during which pensions have been reduced, as well as the dynamics to which it will be paid. At the time of pension cuts, and they increased three times, which is 1.25%, then 1.5% in 2017 and 5% linearly from January 1st. Although the PIO law envisioned the harmonisation of pensions twice a year, in line with consumer prices growth and adjusted to GDP growth, this has never been done before, or for those four years. This money from compulsory and unpaid pension increases is due to all pensioners, including those who have no reduced pensions, or those whose pensions were lower than 25,000 dinars. In short, the money owed to pensioners in the previous four years should not only be reduced by the amount of the increase already paid and thus repay the debt to pensioners. I ask the minister, when will what was taken back from the pensioners in four years' time and not only to boast that pensions are increasing? The draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is contrary to the law because we know that pensioners have their acquired rights that are not to be taken away from anyone under the Constitution. The constitution says pension insurance is regulated by law, which means with clear criteria that do not depend on the will of the executive authority. The fundamental change in this new bill is the eradication of the formula by which two times a year pensions were aligned with inflation growth. Instead, the government is granted a discretionary right to decide on an increase in pensions. Provision of Article 37 The bill is unauthorized and unconstitutional, given that the pension system is regulated by a comprehensive law that has long existed and under which citizens have acquired pension rights. It is not appropriate for the government to change its rights by means of its act and it is unclear how it has even realized that it has such powers as it has given itself. In addition, the proposed solution violates the basic concept of insurance, created by the fact that there is a clear right for those who suggest that they know what their pension will be. In practice, this could mean that one correction per year, according to the inflation rate, is not according to the inflation rate, but according to the government's assessment. If it's not an election year, it could happen that the corrections and there's no pensioners in that case are probably not going to get anything. Retirement is not a matter of one's will, it's a system that knows who is how long and how long he's been paying his contributions. The conditions, height and dynamics of payment of the cash are determined by the government by its act on the burden of funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is unimaginable. According to Minister Djordjevic, the government will monitor economic and economic growth and opportunities in the country and will thus increase pensions, and when and how much a ministry or a minister will determine. Pensioners live on announcements that their pensions will be increased. The country's president and finance minister announce that since October, pensioners will never have more pensions. Based on what, no one knows. Pensions should be a matter of law, not of one's good will and promises, which is a trend in our country. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will not support all these proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43256	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Papuga. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43257	Since you read it well, Mrs. Papuga, you probably didn't understand what you said, but someone wrote it for you. Since I've been explaining it all along, you're not here and you're not listening to what I'm explaining and you're spinning one story into a circle, so here I am, since I've explained it to your colleagues 20 times, I'll explain it to you 21. So no one guarantees pensions when you have the law, since you showed 2009 and 2010 when you had the harmonisation law, so you froze your pensions in 2009 and 2010. There are various pension coordination systems, from doing ad hoc, as is done by Denmark, the Netherlands, Ireland, Austria and this system Serbia wants to apply now. What you're offering Serbian citizens is harmonisation, as it has been in line with inflation and price growth so far, and that's what you do in cases where you're satisfied with the relationship that your pension has with the average salary and you're just coordinating and you always keep that same relationship relative to the average salary or the minimum consumer basket, and as much as it grows, you're actually raising pensions. Here, I have to tell you for the 21st time, we don't accept the opposition's proposal that pensions line up 1% or 1.5% a year for how little inflation and price developments are now. We want to give them more, because we think pensions are low and they need to get closer to the minimum consumer basket. As much as you resist it, we will increase pensions and as much as you want it to be different, it will still be as the government has promised, which is that pensions will grow from year to year. It's the only thing that's real and the only thing that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43258	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43259	Thank you. Of course, Article 107. Mr. Djordjevic, you can possibly join your party colleagues and go to the main board of your party, so you can talk there. As a minister with MPs in the Assembly who elected you to this post, you have no right to talk like this. On Friday, Mr. Djordjevic, you sat down for two and a half hours and read what someone else wrote to you and now someone here because you have a different opinion than what you've read, accusing them of not understanding what they read and not agreeing with your read argument, because away from that, you haven't, because you've read to us here every two days the same letter you sent to the Fiscal Council, you're accusing us here that we don't understand what you're saying. No, no one understands, neither does the fiscal council understand, nor do the MPs understand, only you, the financialist, understand what you are to say and only you here have the right to read. You have no right here, Mr. Djordjevic, to speak with the MPs. If you're anxious to get this over with, go. Your other colleagues from the congregation have left. If you don't have the nerve, you don't have the patience, you don't want to listen to what we have to say, how can I say, school isn't mandatory. Here, Mr. Sarcevic sits, speaks, answers, talks to the MPs. You on those occasions when you answer or read what someone wrote to you or insult us here. I ask you to behave and ask the chairman to draw attention to the fact that our rules of conduct apply to all participants in the debate, therefore, and to the ministers. I know you're used to talking to you like that, but we're not and the citizens didn't deserve to talk to anyone who represents them this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43260	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I would suggest a minister just for a little bit more sensitivity, since counterpart Olena Papuga is also known for her tolerance and understanding for everyone who comes here and for other MPs. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes. You wish, okay. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43261	You're talking more about you now than you are about me, but you're right to be angry. He who loses, he has the right to be angry. I respected you and listened to you when you spoke. I understand your misery and your desire to demean me now... (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, probably because the chairman of your alliance wants to and discuss my Prime Minister differently, and you do not want at all now, although MPs are asking you to make a statement as to how and how one of your chairmans treats the Prime Minister, it is not important now. It's important when I talk to Mrs. Papuga, and you, as her lawyer, say that I don't behave properly and that I don't realize that Mrs. Papua is talking. I've seen it very well read, but then I can judge that from what's been read, if I say it 20 times and repeat it, I realize that the 21st time someone didn't understand what I said. I tried to explain it plasticly. Mrs. Papuga wasn't there, just like she's not here right now. I just want to explain to her that what I've been explaining the 20th time, it's not hard for me, that I'm going to explain the 21st time. If we need to do it 22nd time, we will explain what the problem is and what the idea of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, and the idea of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in one plain sentence. We don't want to coordinate and make pensions less. We want pensions to be bigger and they grow much faster than consumer baskets and inflation grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43262	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43263	Article 107. It's about the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Marinkovic, you must warn the minister. For the second time in five minutes, he had a very unpleasant tone towards the MPs, in this case the opposition, although there is absolutely no difference between the government's MPs and the opposition when it comes to any minister's behaviour. So, it is very important that you tell the minister, if he is bothered by the relationship and condemnation, as we condemn the government's relationship with the president of the said man, who has been quoted today one billion times, then neither did Minister Djordjevic, who was the defence minister, is the first time he's sat in parliament, so he knows what tone he needs to talk to the MPs. So here are the MPs who ask, and the ministers are the ones who answer. You can't tell anyone if someone figured something out or not, because you're not a class elder to anyone. You have to be polite and answer the questions asked by the MPs, whether you like it or not. You're here for that reason today. Don't be angry. There's nothing personal here. This is just the rule of this house and the dignity of this house, which is the central political institution in Serbia. It would be wrong for the ministers to come and listen to the MPs. When I talk about Olena Papuga or Aleksandra Jerkov or Maja Vidinovic, I also think about SNS MPs. No one deserves to be treated or treated that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43264	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43265	I'll be brief today, Mr. Chairman. Article 103, since I just didn't think I heard the answer whether or not there are technical conditions to apply that member's provisions to the DS parliamentary group. I don't know if they have any time left to take away, but you have a reason, you have a business reason, because this was a replica of a minister, not an indication of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can tell from everything that's been said. But I have to add, you can see from a political message, there's no sign of honesty, you can see that it's something a man doesn't really mean, he doesn't feel honest. If he really meant it and really felt it, Mr Bozovic wouldn't be the first to sit next to Dragan Gilas' laps right now. If he cared about the relationship between the man who represents an execution in any sense towards the members of parliament, whether of the republic or of the city, he would not tolerate the society of the man, I mean Dragan Gilas, who, like the coachman, treated the councilmen in the City Assembly while he was in power, in strength and while he was mayor. That's what everyone who was in the Belgrade City Assembly at the time knows. The second thing, to get up here and tell a relativizing story like that, trying to be a divorce, we condemn that something that's been said today and read a billion times. Well, now if he says so overly a billion times, then those words will be less ugly, and he will be more innocent in the whole story, even though today he is following and following politically and admireing that man, I mean Željko Veseinović, who is the disgusting, decent man of unimaginable things he said about the Prime Minister. Why do I say that? If Mr Bozovic were honest, if his colleagues were honest or anyone there today said – well, well, I condemn it, don't strangle me any more, if he really meant it honestly, he wouldn't have given them today, four days after he wrote these terrible, inhuman words, Zeljko Vesenovic continued to be president, or chairman of their alliance. They'd make sure they didn't have their face. They'd make sure they didn't have an idol and a role model. They'd make sure they didn't have pictures and opportunities for themselves. On this day, at this moment, and this is the last sentence, what is the name of the chairman of this alliance? Is his name by any chance Zeljko Veselinović? What does that say about you and your honesty, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43266	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. We're going back to work. National MP Ana Stevanovic is not present. National MP Sonja Vlahovic is not present. Professor Miladin Shevarlic, you don't have time, time's up. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43267	I would also like to welcome the Director of the PIO Fund, who spends all his time in the Assembly, by contributing to the debate on the Law on PIO to be more content, more favourable and at the head of the Fund which has contributed to the significant financial consolidation of both the states and the PIO Fund. MPs, respected Petrovic and Mr Kovacevic, have made it very clear and precise about the PUPS party's views on the draft law and the Decision on the rebalancing of the PIO Fund's financial plan. I made my views very precise and clear about the discussion of the 2018 budget in December and the election of the finance minister in March of this year. I remain in these attitudes and I think it is very important that I respect this and it is very important that this proposal came on the agenda that we made at the time, and that is the proposal to suspend the law on the temporary way of harmonising pensions. What is very important and important is that I commend the president of the state who suggested that he enter into force a month earlier than was prepared by the ministry, and it is not a small matter. That's 2.5 billion dinars in the pension account. The second thing, which is very important, is that the results in PIO and the reforms that we have done since 2014 are the best business of financial consolidation of the state. That's what I'm talking about, and I don't want to do it again now. They're the best and that's why they're very important and important...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43268	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43269	... that 1,700,000 and some pensioners get this kind of credit and even better than it's been suggested. We also support the Law on Higher Education, Minister Sarčević, and I especially ask you to respect the largest group of some non-governmental sector. When it comes to this, I'm talking about Minister of Finance and Minister Djordjevic and having a conversation...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43271	Please, you let everyone else go, let go of one sentence. ... to respect the most numerous structure of the NGO sector when laws are being drafted. That was promised to me by Prime Minister and Minister Cynthia Malo during his election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43272	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43273	Thank you. Today on the agenda we have a bill that was abolished four years ago against a pension decision from pensioners who received a pension between 25 and 50,000 dinars. It is these pensioners who receive between 25 and 50,000 dinars who have borne the greatest burden in the last four years when it comes to kidnapping, that I will repeat the kidnapping, and that is, by the anti-constitutional withdrawal of pensions from pensioners. Pensions are not a social category, pensions are property. The state can't decide that someone who's spent his whole life in a pension fund, during his working life, that's the savings and the assets of the kidnapping. What we have today is mocking the pensioners who have borne the burden of this anti-constitutional law because they are presented to them as if now pensions are returning to the past, which is not true at all. Inflation is higher in these four years, than this is retirement, so their pensions have been reduced again and they've been kidnapped again. What this law also lacks is a return, a return provision for everything that has been taken so far. That's not what this law predicts... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43274	I only ask you, colleague Stamenkovic, not to use such words as "kidnapping". This isn't hiducia. This is me parliamentary democracy, so you can adjust your speech to this high and respected home. Please continue your speech. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43275	I really don't know. Professor Atlagic when he says that someone is a "ordinary bastard", "lesijadovic", then that's okay, and I can't say "taken" and "paste". When I said "past" you took 20% of my salary. Not you, the other chairman, but the chairman, those who run this assembly. What's wrong with the word "taken"? That's a very precise word. The property is ‘absorbed’.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43276	Please don't mention her anymore, and what's gone has gone to the children in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43277	Can you suggest me a few words instead of "taken" to use? I'll listen to you. What's been done with pensions for the last four years? Is it stolen? What is done if the word “taken ” is not appropriate? If you take someone against the law and you take property against them, you walk into someone's house, you take out a chair, what did you do with that chair? You took her from him. So this law, which is declared to be the return of pensions to the old one, lacks a provision on the return of all that is from pensioners – the word I cannot say. Cappano, says counterpart Vukadinovic. The MP group Enough has submitted an amendment in this regard and we hope that they will come to an understanding of colleagues who have a majority in this assembly, that this will be voted upon and this great injustice corrected. I would only repeat once again what bothers me the most, when it comes to this whole pension story, which began in 2014, which is a dispute so rule, which is otherwise the rule of this ruling coalition. When it started to campaign to explain to the public that Serbia would go bankrupt if pensions didn't go down, the campaign went in the direction of the pensioners fighting each other, and there were talk of pensioners who had just the same high pensions. Pensioners who have pensions greater than 100,000 dinars have 325. Six hundred thousand pensioners, who bear the greatest burden of this kidnapping, are pensioners who receive pensions of between 25 and 50,000 dinars. Her pensions were reduced. That money was not saved from Serbia's bankruptcy. I wish those money had gone into some social programs, that they'd gone to health care, so come on. With these money, we paid subsidies to foreign corporations, with a wave of German to come to Serbia, giving them city building land, providing them with all the necessary logistics and infrastructure through local self-government, completely free to open up some factories where our children will be employed for 200, 250 to 300 euros. And they received several thousand subsidies, including 10,000 euros per job opening. In doing so, we have financed entirely unfair competition from domestic companies that did not have those benefits. That's what all this money took from the pensioners went to. They didn't go to health care. And that's what gets me the most when we talk about this whole retirement tragedy. As soon as it was announced that the pensioners would be taken from the pensioners, anti-constitutional pensions, it organised a petition signing, one big action "We don't give pensions to parasites", because we knew what would happen to these money and that it would not go where the budget needed to go and we submitted a constitutional initiative to the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, he refused to discuss it at all. In that sense, I would end up with another call that when we come to the debate on amendments, all of us here, all 250 MPs, who surely have pensioners in our families, let's think carefully about adopting an amendment to my parliamentary group, enough is enough, that everything that's been taken away from the pensioners comes back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43278	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Stamenkovic rudely violated the dignity of the National Assembly, article 107. We, as MPs, must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Here she repeated several times that anti-constitutionally, allegedly, pensions were kidnapped. Neither is it against the constitution, nor has it been taken by the authorities. But if she wasn't working on black and not providing medical services before the barbutte party to her leader, this rasulovic company, that she wasn't working on black, perhaps, pensions would be bigger. But she and her colleague Stevanovic applied to black medical services without a license and without taxes, without contributions. It's against the law, it's against the law. All people have the same rights and same obligations. If one of the doctors has to report their actions, and the other is being treated black, then it's unfair competition, then empty funds, etc. After Feng Shui therapy, reiki therapy was recommended. They say if that doesn't work too, then they move on to the dick therapy and that's how they'll heal. So, it says in their announcement, I didn't make anything up. Pensions did not kidnap the government, they took the party of the former regime's joint criminal enterprise and the bankruptcy manager. What they've missed and missed by a redheaded pirate, it's the welcome parts of a fortune teller. He's sharing a fortune-teller who hasn't come back, but he's back and he's back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43281	... The other patient and I recommend a colleague to respect, like all the other MPs of the Constitutional Court's decision, because no one can be older than the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43282	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves on Vote Day? No, I don't. Thank you. Branka Stamenkovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43283	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Member of the 103rd MP, the previous speaker reported on the Rules of Procedure and entered a reply requiring an answer. As for playing in the congregation, we at least played Bajaga, and you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43284	My colleague Stamenkovic, I am taking two minutes from the time of your parliamentary group. Thank you for understanding. Let's move on. Right on line, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43285	I thank the chairman. In her presentation, the previous speaker mentioned the ruling coalition before advertising and has a basis for replication on several occasions. What is particularly the subject, under the assumption that the withdrawal of pensions should also be asked to the citizens of Serbia – what is the name of the kidnapping in 2008, an increase in pensions on three occasions, and then after that we have a freezing of 2009, 2010, when inflation was 10.5% and when the exchange rate varies between 80 and 120 dinars per euro? Now, what is it called when it comes to pensioners and Serbia's budget and when you come to the situation that 13.4% of GDP is practically part of pensions, payments and compulsory pension payments, when you come into a situation that you have to drive away the IMF because it is a witness to how you broke the Republic of Serbia's budget? Now, that's probably some economic theory where bankruptcy managers take money from Serbia's budget, run some 13 companies and take over 220 million dinars and then become presidents of parliamentary groups where MPs like those who are now attacking us are sitting. It is this political theory that we simply disagree with and fully go towards economic growth and development, and we believe that pensions should be paid in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43286	Thank you, colleague Tomic. We're moving on with our work. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. She's not present. The word is Maria Yalyušević. He's not here. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. He's not here. The word is Sasa Radulovic. He's not here. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. He's not here. The word has Ivan Kostic. He's not here. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. He's not there. The word is Zoran Radojićic. He's not there. The word is Marko Parezenović. He's not there. The word has Srdjan Nogo. He's not there. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will use this little time as much as we have left to repeat, on behalf of the SNS, that we support the proposed laws. I say that on behalf of the SNS MPs for a clear reason that some here are obviously eager to deal with us and our MPs, they've taken that probably in some enthusiasm that their day has absolutely succeeded, they're making analyses of how many of us are sitting here, and how many of them and they know it by the rule, just the ones they rarely have. I mean, there's also this famous yellow company that appeared at this session, one day late, it seems to me right off some nice trip, three minutes before the end of the previous day. They're dealing with as many of us here now, when and how many of us. And of course, their colleagues who, as far as I can see from these social networks, are extremely brave on their Twitter accounts, there they like to deal with these issues and with our MP group, just like that, it seems to disappear when it comes to speaking in the National Assembly. I didn't hear anything about the subject being dealt with here, which is said in the microphone. What's the problem? It's not certainly a problem in courage and the strength of arguments. You don't know if they're braver or if they're stronger arguments. These people mentioned us, so for those people first of all to know, and the citizens know it, I don't have to tell them. As long as there is one single SNS MP sitting in these benches any one, one alone, that one could be the complete tycoon, the Latvian coalition to wear in its teeth, so don't be afraid, it's always more than enough, as much as it is appropriate for you that day to come to the National Assembly. Now they already have, for many, it seems to me to be about 88% of pensioners, and it will be for everything, once again, the moment we have passed this law. Why? Because it will be part of the overall solution, not only the return of some amounts that were reduced in 2014, but all increases, which were three in the meantime, will be retained, right, 1.25%, 1.5%, 5%. And when a man takes and calculates how much that is the first increase, then the percentage per percent, and I'm going to base for the second, and then for the third on everything that was in the meantime, you get about 13 percent. If someone doesn't understand what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about. Of course, it can never be clear, and however you explain it to me to those who decided not to want it to be clear to them. So for those who are brave on these Twitters, various social networks, who come here for three minutes, before the end of the day, they will never be clear for one obvious reason why these people simply don't want it to be clear to them. These are people who refuse to accept anything that is good for this country, which is good for these citizens, just because, look, upside down, it has nothing to do with their merits. They're what they can and can show. What Alexander Vukic, the SNS, the government we support, can't stand, and that's the whole truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth. When you mention double standards, gentlemen, brave on social networks, I mean those who like to be made known from time to time in terms of nationality, according to what they think is useful at a given time, of course. Double standards, that's their word. The hypocrites, that's their words, and all on the subject of respect for the National Assembly. You will never, ever see this level of respect for the Assembly, such as the one who showed Dragan Gilas in the Belgrade City Assembly at the time, and when he was in the mayor's seat, so he dirtyly cursed the councilmen who, you imagine, had some kind of criticism to tell him. And then, when he was a councilman, and he didn't show up there, because he wasn't interested in anything, but he did receive a fee neatly every month, he never made a mistake to take it, so now that he's, like, a councilman, and I told you already, he's sitting there and the line, the man kills time, he just makes, well, technically, there's no reason to tell him -- you're not coming. What he does, how he spends his time, and when it comes to respect, let each one conclude on his own. When we talk about the Republic Assembly, you will not hear from us that we are threatening the chairman, you will not hear from us that we are cursing the woman who is the president of the National Assembly, and all of these are your fantastic achievements. You won't hear from us that we call people, but you know what you've been telling us, and the horse, and the garbage and the cattle, and so on, there were fantastic things that only highly decent, best-bred people could boast. Such examples of respect for the congregation, when you talk about hypocrisy, when you talk about double standards, you haven't seen or seen from us. When we talk about this hypocrisy and these double standards, the extraordinary courage, and those who come and deal with SNS in a time of two minutes to advertise the Rules of Procedure, as well as those who deal with SNS on social networks, they didn't find it, probably out of great busyness, of so much value, of time to condemn this on those networks on which we deal. His chairman, Zeljko Veselinovic. They didn't have a time, they had to prepare a lot for this session, or at these times when they decided to deal with us, they don't get to deal with this. This is, if you don't happen to understand what we're talking about here, this is a rape call, this is disgusting, this is horrible, this is unacceptable to a decent man. Don't you have time or courage for what, to deal with this a little bit? While these are your chairmanial leaders, they are your image and opportunity. When you speak, this face is seen by Serbian citizens. When they look at you, they recognize this. This is you and your values until you decide not to. Give us reasons to believe that you've decided not to. What problems have we solved? Those problems with the government register, which of course, no one could have expected, that they could have avoided. In the state, in a society where top experts, fantastically decent and professional people, who now know all about everything, have left hundreds of thousands of people on the street, hundreds of thousands of people out of work. They ran away from those who still liked to talk about how humiliating it is to work for 250 euros or how much they've already said, and it's top-notch what? Dignified when you live, not with 250 euros, but with zero. They're capable of underestimating every job, and people were sending what? Dignifiedly, they're looking for something to eat in a garbage dump. Was that much better? Was that much nicer? They want to comment on the pay. They can't say what the average wages were in their time. They can't, because they'll turn out to be less than they are today. They can't say anything about pensions, because they'll turn out to be in the same kind of trouble here. Minimum profit, how much was it? Today, watch this nonsense, you see, the great leaders of this tycoon Latvian gathering, the ensemble, what they say, I don't know, they'll make sure they win, however, that the minimum wage in Serbia, now I quote words to you, believe this is literally said: "The minimum wage in Serbia can't be lower than the average." Has anyone seen that there is a minimum wage in a country that is equal to the average salary, and it's literally said so? It's only in some country that they came up with, in which everyone, whatever they do, wherever they are, no matter how much internships they have, they have the same receipts. Everyone, all the time, everywhere. That's the only way I can think about it, as far as I've been able to think about that statistic, at least equally average. Now you see how pointless that is, now you see how empty it is, and then you see everything else we heard in this session. For example, there will be fewer pensions when we adopt this, although 8 to 13% are higher. Why? They say it's inflation. Their account says that inflation of about 2% a year, over a four-year period, is less than 13. So, of course, 8 is less than 13. Why? Because, as they were, a billion and 200 million equals 400 million. For the city of Belgrade, we were convinced that the phenomenal result of Dragan Gilas of a billion and 200 million debt was not that, but 400, and thus spinning for all living things that come to mind. That's the kind of problem we had to deal with again, and we didn't run away from it. We haven't run away from it, we've done this seriously, and hence 170 thousand new jobs in the last three years, hence the reduced unemployment rate from their brilliant 25% to today below 12%, 11.9%, hence the public debt, and all of this, ladies and gentlemen, has a lot to do with what we're doing at this session and these measures. So, to remind you, those who have broken the legal framework of 45%, raised public debt in that unsustainable spiral, because under these conditions, they have committed that no country could bear to do so, pushed over 50 to go over 60, 70, 80%, and we, well, are not satisfied because they can't compare with anything good, because no result to put ours against them, we somehow managed to stop it from going beyond 80, as everyone in this world has predicted. So we put it down, put it down below the Mastrict level today, it's 60% below. It's also good news that it would be nice to share with someone who is able to look forward to good things for all the people in this country. Unfortunately, those on the other side of the hall obviously aren't. It's shrinking further and you'll see, it's going to be below 50% and it's going to have a lot to do with what we're doing today and other good measures again. They could never compete with this growth of 4.9% now on a six-month level, never. Their minus 3.1 cannot be compared to plus 4.9. It couldn't be with, as long as it was already, it was over two and about two a year, and then it was a little bit. But then again, their minus three couldn't compare to something that's plus. Now, when for one, one and a half percent better than the best forecasts we've received in the beginning of the year, it's pointless to even try to discuss these topics with us. We solved these problems, once again, ladies and gentlemen, and here, as you can see from this debate, we managed to solve them in a good way. The consequence is that we have a surplus in the budget for the second, third year in a row, that we have where to set aside for these measures that we are going to adopt, or that when it ceases to apply the Law on the temporary payment of pensions, the state can take it, that the state can bear it, that nothing is threatened, that there is no instability in our system and, of course, it increases further. You've never heard us say anything about this or any other matter – and now the point, the job is done and there's nothing more to talk about and there's no one else to hope for, ever. Neither when we talked about the standard of workers, nor when we talked about looking for new regular places, nor when we talked about promotions in education or wherever you want, nor when it comes to pensions. The idea is very clear, and this is what the present ministers have well explained, to increase further. Thank God that we stretch out how long we are, that it may no longer be at the expense of anyone's future in this country, that it may not be so that tomorrow someone has to return it and leave it in trouble not to know where or how and then to bring it all down. Today, because of the serious and responsible attitude towards the state and the successful policy that Alexander Vukic, SNS and our partners with whom we form the Serbian government together, we can do so. So that's why pensions will be bigger for all pensioners, bigger than ever, between eight and 13%, and it won't be a return to the 2014 state that some wanted, and we said it couldn't, because that would mean that for all those that were increased in the meantime, it should be reduced so much by now. We said, "That's not how it's going to be." You see the bill, so it really won't be. All increases will remain, and still when the increases occur, again according to how much we are able to stretch out as a state without endangering and disrupting anything, there will be an increase for everything. It's true, the greatest burden was brought by our pensioners. It's pointless to mock the president of the state of Alexander Vukic that we all owe them gratitude, it's pointless. We understand that because we really meet these people every day, and those who are able to afford that luxury again to say that no hens will be able to make, and thus show how tragically they never know anything, they don't understand these people, they don't have luck and they don't even know how important it is that they brought these people out, and they don't really support Alexander Vukic. Ask some questions about who the pensioners in this country vote for, and you will understand how good the arguments on the other side are, or how many there are, and how much nobody believes them, and how we stand, who they claim to be worse than them, are just, well, somehow again for spite, we know who Milutin Milankovic is when someone asks us or who is Elijah Garashanin, for example, somehow slips away and we know that. As for the story of abductions, those who have kidnapped, if they feel guilty, can repent publicly and can always turn to themselves alone. Those who have taken and by this irresponsible relationship have brought the state into a situation that has been forced to take certain measures, if they really think, honestly think that something else needs to be returned, they need to address themselves. They only have where to return it if they want to. For example, and Dragan Gilas, you've already seen what he reported from the property. You saw when he got it in the meantime. Besides, if I didn't tell you that, I read you the words of Bosko Obradovic. He knows a man, he knows firsthand, and who will know, if not the right hand of Dragan Gilas when he acquired it, where and how great it is. Cross that off with the reported assets and you'll see, there's a bunch of them. It's also known about Vuk Jeremic. They wrote so much in the press, he had to confess in the end. That is how much it is. And to draw him a word of explanation, and why, which is why, from whom you got it and for what kind of service, there's no way. No way, only if that Patrick guy and the others are called, if they say one word on the subject, so we find out more. Or it's revealed in those ways that Jeremic couldn't predict. Maybe someone who knows something about business, what it was, the Qatar embassy in Berlin is revealing information. Until then, the Wolf of Jeremiah will be silent when he is watered, and he has millions in the crowd. If he couldn't hide it, he had to admit it. And so we go in a row. We could go from leader to leader, from one to the next you'd see the tycoon-Ljotic coalition. But what's he saying? If they are truly honest, if they really seriously think anything needs to be settled, they should do so from these own means, or conditionally speaking their own. These are, of course, all the funds that are essential to the citizens of this country, so if they want to be returned, as they talk about returns, they are certainly more than welcome. I'll talk to the health care lady who mentioned him when she came next time, but if she ever wants to make a good contribution to the situation in our health care, and it's more than welcome, here, for example, those 30 million dinars of campaign money shared by her and the others who had firms, but she had an entrepreneurial store in her name, they can freely return to the state of Serbia and I'm confident, the state will be able to invest them in the right way, as she could in accelers, sanitizers, sigma knives and other good things that have improved the situation on the health of our citizens. This law and the work done so far should be congratulated, if we are honest, to congratulate, above all, our pensioners for having a full heart, for making an immeasurable contribution to make our common house better today. We should also continue to congratulate all other citizens of Serbia on the fact that opportunities in our economy are really like we have brought out now, and on this excellent growth and on the reduction of debt and on the reduction of unemployment and to over 170,000 new jobs and on the fact that pensions are growing, but growth and wages are growing, and this minimum profit, therefore, should be congratulated on all the good things we have done with heavy, serious and responsible work. It is also important to congratulate the great political geniuses Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Janko Veseinovic, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and all other great leaders, I think there are 10, I can't even remember them all, because they decided to show us their true face and their system of values. These brutal rape calls, this survival is their system of values while these and these people lead them. And if they decide to show before Serbia who they are and what they really are, and that's what congratulations are supposed to be on, that's some honesty, right? Among other things, which they acknowledged that Alexander Vukic, as said by the high-ranking party official Vuk Jeremic, I will read to you exactly what his words say: "The wolf in the elections can't win. Over 60 functionally illiterate citizens are there and they will remain his believers until the end. Milosevic did not lose in the elections, but in the revolution, I am the advocate of the rebellion of the people, the moment will come." Mr. Gajic, if you call a gentleman, he can. So, they admit what their intentions are, that they admit that in the democratic elections in a fair game they have nothing to look for and that every story about the coup, every story about the military junta, about physical retribution has obviously some institutional background in the heads of these people. You have seen what their system of values is in the case of their Željko Veseninović, and here is the case of Gajic and the like, and you see what their intentions are and what their methods are. But congratulations on this. We have to congratulate, because there aren't many people on the planet, if we look at these frames, who are able to say something like this out loud. So, for all these things, all the honors are really top-notch specimens. In the end, congratulations should be given, ladies and gentlemen, to all those who represented this good policy and the good results achieved by the Republic of Serbia. It's not usually easy work, but, you know, that job is a job that makes us proud. One day we will have something to show behind us, and that trail will be something that we will be able to show to those generations that are coming behind us, and those who were in that period when we were doing this work on the other side, let them think about what they will have to show to those who will come behind them. For Serbia, the power of this difference is more than clear, it has shown it many times, so it shows it today and in any subsequent election, don't worry about it. Gentlemen Ministers, at the very end, congratulations to you on excellent suggestions, as always.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43288	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is Bosko Obradović. He's not there. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. He's not there. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search – whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure, that applies to the informants? The word is by Snezana B. Petrovic, rapporteur of the Committee on Economy, Energy and Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and gentlemen of the Ministers with associates, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and, in accordance with its responsibilities at the 31st session, decided to propose to the National Assembly all 10 draft laws of international agreements and protocols, and all of this for the reason that their agreement and signature by governments, as well as the necessary ratification here in the National Assembly, are achieved by formal conditions for further development and improvement of the economic environment, and first through new investments. Furthermore, this act provides for easier movement of goods and services through coordination of customs procedures and certain customs reliefs, which leads to easier trade, and I am also a team of greater external trade opportunities, better promotion and tourism capacities and their greater use, i.e. strengthening overall economic relations and additional inflows of funds into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I note that by accepting these agreements, there is no additional financial burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of all the 10 points discussed by the Committee, I will point out one and thank the Russian Federation for confirming the protocol to amend the Agreement between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia on the long-term safe supply of natural gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia, which the Russian side accepted the Serbian side's initiative to delete a provision from the previously signed agreement that meant the delivery of natural gas only for the Republic of Serbia's market. This removes obstacles to the commitment Serbia has made in terms of the agreed quantities of natural gas, as well as the obligations created by the signing of an energy community agreement on our Serbian side. Once again, thank the Russian Federation, which, for its part, has already ratified this Protocol amending the Agreement. Furthermore, I am taking the opportunity to look at the results of the economic and financial developments in the first six months of this year and to highlight the growth of the GDP of 4.5%. At a low inflation rate and a public debt below 60%, an extremely high surplus was achieved in the 31 billion dinar state register. I say, extremely high, because it was planned minus, there was a planned deficit of 22.6 billion. So from the plan that was supposed to be down to the realisation and surplus of 31 billion dinars, which also confirms a good individual reform and a achieved financial stabilisation. At a reduced rate of inflation, i.e. a reduced unemployment rate, this is the best result in the last 10 years and perhaps several years. The growth and strengthening of Serbia's economy is evident through positive movements in all sectors both productive and serviceable, starting with a construction site where the largest growth is recorded through industrial, trade, tourist sector of information technologies, to agriculture. So Serbia records economic growth above the average of countries in the region, and beyond, and also increases foreign investors' interest. Furthermore, strong economics and economies, stable finances and responsible spending of public funds with a regulated and efficient state administration make a strong state. Serbia is certainly going towards this with further new investments, investments, new jobs, regular budget filling, further GDP growth, a better standard of citizens will be achieved, Serbia's village and cooperativeship will be strengthened, and in particular the right to secure and regular pensions and to increase them, as envisioned by the proposal for a law on pension disability insurance, which we are discussing and are discussing at this session and which is the basis for further pension development. In the end, we are witnessing that the set goals presented to the government of President Vukic, to successfully realise and justify the acquired trust that is expected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43290	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. The word is by Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43291	I thank the chairman. What we had the opportunity to hear on the Committee is the part that concerns the proposal for a decision on the election of the Vice-Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, but also to give our opinions on the proposal for a decision on the granting of consent and the financial plan of the PIO Fund. Based on the presentation of representatives of the PIO Fund and the Ministry of Finance, what is most important to us is that these increases are practically coming from real foundations and for the sustainability of the budget and will be in a certain amount of two billion dinars. But what's most important is the chronology of making these decisions at all, when we're talking about a certain legal basis. So, first of all, by giving consent, we are giving a clean basis for amending and supplementing the Law on the PIO Fund, which is the most important part of what the Fiscal Council has been talking about, the application of Article 27a of the Law on the Budgetary System adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is that a certain type of increase, or one type of addition, means not the part relating to pension harmonisation is 0.3% of GDP, and that these increases essentially in the future, depending on the growth of the economic one, will be growing and greater. Of course, the state responsible for managing the budget believes that business activities will grow, given that economic growth has taken the upward path after the introduction of economic reforms, and every year has been better and better. In the end, it also showed a surplus in the budget that is always bigger than what was planned by the draft budget adopted in the previous year. What's important to say is that when we talk about a methodology in general about a legal basis for making a decision to coordinate wages and pensions one model that so far, which we're talking about indexation, is a modified Swiss model that tells a member of the 80th team that pensions are coordinated twice a year, 50% of the alignment or growth goes with price adjustments to a little bit, and the other part, that's in April, is the one that's 50% in terms of profits in developed countries, with us, our model says that's the difference between 4% growth and real growth that's going to happen in that fiscal year. Since this year shows us that already half a year's growth is 4.9%, and you know that by the end of the year, they usually come up with all the obligations they pay. No matter how much growth is more than 4%, that difference should practically represent the level of harmonisation. The government and the Ministry of Finance have predicted that at some point 0.3% of GDP and therefore there is now a possibility that before the end of this fiscal year we can discuss such an increase and therefore we have this model of practically the financial plan on which the Committee has given its consent. In the future, pensions will grow much more intensely, and this model, which is why Article 27e says, and ultimately, the Fiscal Council gives this assessment, that it should bind to 11% of GDP growth. That 11% is still somewhere at 11.1% and when they fall below it, and growth is significantly greater than 4% only then we can talk about an increase in some formula. For the time being, this formula would give very small increases, and that is why the Government and the Ministry have made this proposal to amend and supplement the plan so that pensioners in their nominal amount would really feel the greater increases that belong to them, especially when it comes to such good economic results. When we talk about a surplus of 49.1 billion dinars, when we talk about an inflation rate of 2.5% when we talk about economic growth of 4.9% in the first six months then we talk about that all indicators give us the right to even pay off pensions we can guarantee in fact by our economy. So, by opening new jobs, by opening new structural and infrastructure projects, the opening means an economic environment that is suitable for highly developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43292	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43293	Thank you. Mr. Marinkovic, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I will repeat once more. On 24 September 2000, 18 years ago, there were elections when Slobodan Milosevic, along with the SRS, staged those elections and lost those elections and Serbia turned to integration, reconciliation in the region and Europe. What remains to be owed to pensioners are 12 pensions to every pensioner in Serbia, 18 agricultural pensions and 24 social assistance. So, for two years, social aid has not been paid. Among those who exercised power back then, many of you sat in this house and supported the majority. We represented one hope, one strength, which was able to return to the last dinar after 24 September 2000 with a tight interest rate and inflation rate to all pensioners, including old foreign exchange savings. I think the citizens of Serbia know that very well. For this reason, we promise another citizen of Serbia and the pensioners of Serbia under full responsibility that we will return every penny that this government has taken over these four years to the pensioners of Serbia. It's 700,000 Serbian pensioners. Minister Djordjevic spoke on several occasions today about how pensions will be bigger in a few days than they have ever been. That's what Dr. Sinisha Mali was talking about. Both the prime minister and the president of the Republic of Serbia spoke. I have here a statement from an officer of the Serbian Army. Serbia's Army Officer, who is retired, who said that on the day of 2014, when he was reduced pensions, up until today, when he is reportedly getting an increase, that he is owed 616,000 dinars. I don't know who's telling the truth, Minister, you or him, and is it true that an officer in the Serbian Army is owed 616,000, and that you, on the other hand, claim that his pension will be bigger than ever? Who's gonna pay him back these 616,000 dinars? It's just one pensioner, and 700,000 of them, who's gonna pay them back? Here we have completely agreed somewhere, you don't want and you won't, your assistant said it was even illegal, he said it on the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and we guarantee you that the first time, when we trust, we will return pensions for 700,000 pensioners in Serbia and these four years that are missing and when they are deprived of age, when they are deprived of what they have earned and acquired during their working life. We promise it and I underline it one more time and, behold, for the last time, we promise it. What has been said today in this House are estimates that from the election cycle to the election cycle, past any formulas, pensioners will be increased and reduced pensions. This means that your hands are deep in the pockets of pensioners and that, in fact, by your will, you sort of determine their fate and how much you will give them or take. The fiscal council, as a very important institution in Serbia, said it actually points to those countries that exist in Africa or somewhere in the Far East where there is no legal certainty, no rule of law, and that is the image and opportunity of Serbia today. There's no legal certainty anymore. I'm sure my generation, too, will certainly be paying into some private pension fund, because I no longer trust the law you're proposing. I don't want you to interfere with what my property is. I will personally no longer be in a position to pay my contributions to the PIO fund because it is privatised by the SNS. Another very important thing. Mr. Sarčević, as Minister of Education, you and I have had opportunities on several occasions to even cooperate well and we have helped students who have not been under the old programme, but were the first Bolognas to sort of get together. I ask you, you know best how difficult times are and how difficult the situation is, to save them in some way and to give them the opportunity to continue this study. You promise? Thank you. One more thing. In Article 14 and Article 18, we have enrolment in studies without conditions. We have in Article 18 over 2,000 PhDs that are in some way controversial, which in one way or another may be able to remain valid and continue to be used in an educational system. I'm asking you one thing, since I don't have time anymore. You promised on the first day you came to parliament an education strategy. We have a strategy that is extremely written. Let's work on it and let's finally reform education together, because that's what all the future in this country depends on. I think my time is up. Mr. Marinkovic, thank you for today's discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43294	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43295	We talked about that strategy more than once, and I never said it was misspelled. I said it wasn't applied and there's no good action plans. Otherwise, we've already formed several teams in the ministry that are starting to deal with the strategy. We formed two large teams as starting teams, a strategy in education and a strategy in high and science. Here are the people of the university, the people of the national councils, and all those who should appear as first players, with the presence of people from the European Commission later. What's important, you heard today, maybe part of it, is from an old strategy, which is that single-minded work and day-long teaching appear as a category of budget planning, in translation that children work at school until half-five, to stay cared for, to be taken care of, to be less drugs, violence, more Internet, sports, home language and all that. In education there is a very clear goal. We've already moved the high school this year from 22% to 25.5% with new digital departments and changing the curricula and programs as a school reform. At the tall one, you'll see, this is where we enter with a few more laws and with science we enter with two laws in November of the month. These are all topics that are absolutely in Brussels in June welcomed as something that is very quality and fruitful, so we did not stay in words. It goes in that direction, by connecting all the objectives of the old strategy this little time by 2020 and a new cycle by 2030 and putting on new paradigms to go that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43296	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43297	A few years earlier, Balša Bozovic and a member of the 107th question of dignity. There are more things here, Mr. Chairman, absolutely unacceptable. For example, it is absolutely unacceptable to ask a question here by Mr Bozovic who is telling the truth, and we all know what the answer is. As a rule, it is Božovic, DS and other members of their newest broad coalition with a host of wonderful new values. It's not true, for example, about military pensions. It is unacceptable for a man to ask if it is true or false that there will be more pensions for everyone after we adopt this law. It's just a bill. If there is a slice to which someone is invited to look there in October, November, so let them check when compared to October 2014 whether it is higher or lower. They'll see it's more and it'll be perfectly clear again, although it's been made clear to everyone in this country for a long time by who's telling the truth. It is unacceptable to even be mentioned as a category of military pension by people who literally devastated those military pensions. How many times have we said that in this congregation? About 200m euros is a serious damage they have done. Who? Well, the citizens of this country and those military pensioners they're worried about right now. It is unacceptable that today they ask this question to anyone else and when they say – we guarantee, when they say – we promise, they remember the words of Dragan Gilas, their new leader, idol. He thus guaranteed and promised in a campaign for the March elections. Just, do you know what the problem is? That's what he vouched for. Are you with someone else's money? The problem is that he guaranteed the money he took from others, among other things from that party he pushed into debt, which he now holds in his hand. He vouched for her, with their money he took from them. Serbia's citizens are guaranteed the money they took from the citizens of Serbia, including what they say now -- I am not giving my property. They have the same problem. They reach out and swear something that isn't theirs, that others took. If they want something back, they can come back, but they can go in a row. Military pensions to pay back, then move on to these others. No problem at all, let them all return.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43299	Let them turn to 500,000 people in this country who have lost their jobs. All they pay to pay them, all the school books of their land they took from them, all that they had abolished for their childhood, to give them back to them...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43301	Wait a minute, I'm done. ... And then we'll talk further. To stop talking about Africa, because if they want to remind us of African-Americans Zeljko Veseninovica, there's no need. This...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43302	Thank you. I've extended 30 seconds for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43303	... No one in Serbia can forget... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43304	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43305	Desiring to like your new bosses, you send political messages to very dangerous citizens of Serbia. These dangerous political messages speak of the PIO Fund as the property of a political party. That's probably what you're going for, because you thought the PIO Fund owned DS when you were in power. Well, there's a big difference between you and me. So what all international financial institutions have given their opinion on is how finance is being managed and the budget of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandr Vukic and SNS is currently economical, not political. That's why they give these results, and that's what the citizens recognize, and they're going to show in the elections that they're supporting exactly the SNS because of this kind of political platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43306	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Right on the line, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43307	Again mentioning DS and often here mentioning the truth and one serious approach, I think we heard from one fellow MP that it is necessary, of course, to open a wide debate on the Law on the PIO Fund and to seek solutions that will make it truly sustainable. In this way and this debate certainly does not contribute to growing confidence in PIO. And that's what we need to talk about. We also need to talk about, taking into account data, simple data, we also know that the average life in Serbia for men for 72 years, for women 78 years, is now the age limit of 65 years and that because of sustainability, consideration is given to increasing that limit, which will be possible to move to 67 years. And when you see that in Serbia we have a situation in perspective that pensions will be paid for an average of five years for men, and that 40 years of contributions will be paid, of course you should think about the motivation of people to pay contributions to the PIO Fund. Forty years to pay, five years to be a user. How sustainable is that? It's a theme for us in this assembly. How do you make a sustainable PIO fund? That's the subject. The theme is then also the way we bring system solutions that break such large systems. When we pass the law, when you vote here on a law on temporary wage cuts and pensions, we will come to a situation where a large number of young educational people who are due to contribute to most of the payments in the PIO Fund leave Serbia 40,000 of them per year in four years 160,000. Where's the perspective of that fund? These are topics for us. The system solutions that have been made in this congregation have just diminished trust, and that is a key danger to all of us. We are all interested in finding solutions, above all, to raise confidence in this state fund and of course we should also think about payments and formation and private pension funds, because this debate, unfortunately, did not contribute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43308	Thank you. Alexandra Tomic, I presume a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I don't have a chance. [[Alexandra Tomic: Replica on replica.]] He didn't mention the head of the party or you. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go. You have three minutes and six seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43309	Thank you. Here, I would like to talk about the future and to have the representatives of the government come to us and tell us whether in that future they intend to return the reductions made during the provisional law, or to confirm that they will not return those reductions as they have declared to the Committee by referring to Article 4 of the Interim Law. Because if they're not going to return those reductions, then this isn't about getting pensions back, it's about how they're promoting it, it's just about ending their further decline. The Constitutional Court said that retirement is property and that reducing it is equal to taking a room in someone's apartment. The Constitutional Court has accepted pension cuts on condition that it is a temporary measure at a time of crisis. We believe that these crisis conditions are no longer available, since the government boasts of the economic results achieved, and this interim pension reduction law is being abolished. If the reductions made during the provisional law do not return, then those pensioners will no longer have a temporary character but will gain permanent character and to conclude that they will then be unconstitutional. We know that while the interim law was in force and certain pension adjustments were up, but it was actually just some reduction, to call it that. The people, after all, were given less than they should have been given that the provisional law was gone. That's why we suggested a model of how to do it. On Friday, we submitted a bill to the National Assembly to determine the difference for each month for each pensioner of what was to be obtained that the interim law was not and what was really obtained, that for every month, the difference on interest is 3% per year from the date on which the reduction was made until, we propose on 1 January 2019, that all this was then collected and declared public debt for which the emission of dinar bonds with a maturity of five years and payment in 10 six months of war, with a pre-counted interest of 3% from the first January, when the first bond war would begin, until 31 December 2023, when they would finally arrive. Now, why is this important? Because as a member of the EU pension, Lithuania reduced from 2010 to 2013, and the total amount of reductions made, around 247m euros returned in the next three years, back. They had a smaller amount to pay. Otherwise, they're better off financially, so they could have stood up in three, we can do it in five years. They are EU members, we are a candidate, the rule of law must apply to both our and their pensioners equally, unless you think our pensioners are worse than Lithuanians. We think they're not, and if our hair is worse than Lithuanian here's a chance to show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43310	Thank you, colleague Gjuric. Vladimir Orlic reported, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43311	In good faith, Mr. Chairman, that will be the last time today. The question of dignity is Article 107 and the question of the need to speak the truth again here. I heard a weird formulation again, he says - this is now the end of the deceleration. The increase, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if anything was 50,000 and now it's 54 thousand, it's an increase. That's what it's called in a nice Serbian language. If it was 68 grand and now it's 75,000, it's also called an increase. So no verbal acrobatics are helping. The essence is clear and familiar. After all, since the start of these measures, that for 60% of pensioners represented it with every increase just an increase, and then after the second round by another 10-15%, after the third one for almost 10% more, to get to about 88% of pensioners who have pensions today, even before we adopt this, bigger than they had in October 2014, and when we adopt for all the increases. Also, the question of truth and what was heard a minute or two before that. What's security and what's a guarantee? Security and guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, is that the state will be less involved in the need to support the pension system than it used to be. Compare the 28% requirement today with the 48%. It's important security. The problem is that some still don't want to see it because, well, for the jinx, it's not their result, it's the ones they can't take politically. An additional good reason to believe and further strong security is the fact that today Serbia is not governed by those who have concluded themselves when they said they were setting up tenders, that they were setting up competitions, that they were building up for percentages. Those who ran the country like that, they made trouble. Those who do everything the opposite, as much as they don't love them, are good security and a strong guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43312	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Vladimir Orlic: No. No, no, no, (Alexandra Jerkov: An explanation to say what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure? I can't hear you. Can you come over here and tell me, or what? (Alexandra Jerkov: I am unable. All right. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43313	Article 103. This wasn't just a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica of my exposure. To explain why it was a replica and why I think the Rules of Procedure was hurt. I didn't even say pensions wouldn't be increased now. They'll be increased. If the pension, which would be 50,000 October 2014, is now going to be 54,000, okay, that's more. I also said that during the provisional law, pension adjustments were made to more. It's nothing controversial, but it's equally undeniable and that the pensioners were given less in the course of the interim law than they would have had if the provisional law had not been. There's a difference in money that isn't paid to pensioners. It's money they're reluctant to lend to the state, because the state didn't ask them if they wanted to borrow it or not. I also said in my first presentation on Friday, many pensioners willingly accepted it from patriotic feelings, counting on it to help the state. That's how they explain it. I don't slow it down. I'm just saying one indisputable thing -- people have received less for months during the four years of the provisional law than they would have had if the interim law had not been. This difference they have borrowed from the state should be returned to them in the same way that the country of Lithuania, EU member states and we as a candidate country for EU membership want to show that our pensioners are as valuable to us as Lithuania and that we respect the rule of law as the Lithuanians respect themselves and the EU. It's just, my money in someone else's hand for a while was, during that time of that loan, it's interest for me to get my money back. Just that, nothing more. We can talk about whether it's five years short, so it's ten, etc., whether the interest is small or not, but the principle has to be adopted, the money has to come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43314	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43315	Article 104. I was in good faith that it would be the last time, but here, you see, they don't. The basis for the replica, otherwise the content of Article 104. Mr. Đuric now wanted to explain, taking hold of those 10 to 12% of people who had the highest pensions, that, at least for some things, they were less than they would have been. Let me tell you, Mr. Djuric, both for you and for the rest of them, they're not for them, they're for no one. For all these pensions, you know how much, without these measures and other measures we've implemented? They'd be zero. What people have been receiving is not less than zero, it's getting bigger than zero. That's the difference in perspective and understanding. Mr. Chairman, I'm speaking to you now. Whenever Mr. Djuric or anyone else wants to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, let them say what they have. Give it to them, because I'm kind of hoping they'll find it appropriate when they get up and they get word to deal with this Zeljko Veselinović, that they'll feel the need and obligation to condemn this thing. I'm sure they don't want to send a message to the people who saw this until a few moments ago, and that's news to you, you're no longer on the air, that these things support even quietly. That's not what decent people do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43316	Thank you. (Vladimir Djuric: Rules of Procedure. You can't keep looking for an injury. I think you've had enough space and opportunity. You just don't get along. You've been giving examples. Mr. Orlic gave examples. Please continue in this tone. It's a fair debate. Thank you, colleague Guric. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43317	Mr. Đuric, yesterday we spoke about raising pensions and everything that is the government's idea. I can promise you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working in the interests of all citizens, working in the interests of the pensioners and what is only for sure, that their pensions will be bigger. We're not looking at it right now whether it's 13.3 or 8. What's good news for all of them is that pensions are going to be bigger and I hope that's how it's going to be from year to year, not seeing that he's got only one part of the pensioner, but we're going to see that all pensioners get it. What essentially makes a difference is there won't be any damage to any system. It was taken into account that there was no collapse of the system when it came to the pension fund, when it comes to increases, that they were linear and that they were according to everything. At this point, there is an idea and the president has promised that those with the lowest pensions will get an increase. That increase is moving, when we look from the lowest to the largest pension, from about 8 to 13.3%. That should be the point and it should be something that comes out of this parliament. The good news for our pensioners, that everything that was not so long ago in 2014, one ugly picture of Serbia, one big sign of whether or not pensions would be paid at all, that an ugly picture of Serbia that had great inflation, which had an unstable course, which had a grant from the budget close to 50%, is now a thing of the past. We have good economic results, that we can say with great enthusiasm that the future is towards us, that Serbia is heading towards the EU, that the future of this country is bright and that it will reflect by the material position of our citizens will be better. Not only the pensioners, we're talking about them here today, but I believe that very soon in this House we'll talk about some of the results we've done this year, when it comes to the budget, that at the end of this year, when we adopt the budget for next year, we'll have certain good news for all citizens, and they will, of course, include as always the pensioners. No one will ever forget them. It's a message that we all need today from this House to send. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43318	Thank you. My friend Gjuric, you have no right to a replica. You are neither misread, nor has the minister expressed himself negatively about you or your discussion. The word is Marijan Rističević. (Santa Colakovic: The minister is the last. Don't teach me my job. Just wait and be patient. Mr. Risticevic has the right to speak. Let's be patient, let's hear what he has to say. Everyone who has the right to say it will have the right to say it. This was a replica just now, just for an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry these collective members of the Dvora escaped. This is where I think of the party of the former regime. Today is September 24th. Today is the day the elections were held 18 years ago. On that day, Vojislav Kostunica led convincingly, but he lacked 50% plus. I say it was missing as a participant, not as a Balsha narrator. I don't fly to the Maldives for 15,000 euros in ten days. I buy a tractor for that money. That's why I have no reason to plow the Maldives seas, but our fields. He tried to spit over his head here, and now I'm going to show you why. He spoke very persuasively of the Alliance of Radicals, Socialists, etc., and he forgot something. This three-way alliance between the Radicals, the DSS and the DS, was formed in 1992. I, as president of the NSS, who was registered far away in 1990 and how I remember those times. This is the alliance, which tried to bring Milosevic down and elect the president of the assembly. I think it was Mr. Rosic from the SPO. This is also a conversation between Djindjic and Vojislav Seselj. That's what DS would want us to forget, but, well, I haven't forgotten. I didn't forget that in the government of Slobodan Milosevic, the federal minister, there were two DS ministers. I think it was Mr. Perisic and Grubatch, maybe there were three. In the Republic government, they also had one minister. Today's dead wolf tail to measure. That looks like them. Also, from that time on, they spoke of some tycoons, not as a DS financial director named Miodrag Kostic, who immediately after the change, when he filled his pockets with Milosevic during Milosevic's government, received three sugars per three euros. Today they're talking about stealing pensions. This is called a pension theft. The big question is how many pensions would have been if it had been taken, say, 100m euros, like the PKK. The big question is how many pensions would have been if hundreds of combinations and cooperatives with more than 300,000 hectares of the country, the country's most fertile country in Vojvodina had not been sold for 50m euros. Today, for one combination of 105 million, they're low. Plus that 105 million, you have to pay for a stock fund that's going to be around 20 million. In these combined workers, they chased off, slaughtered cattle, sold other factories, and they're talking about stealing pensions today. Pensions were stolen by those who sold factories and hired workers. That's when the PIO ran out of insurance. On the revenue side, they moved them to the expense side. They destroyed their lives, destroyed their families. How can a man who lost his job, a parent, raise his children, be honest, work, if they were and end up on the street? While everyone else was poor, they got rich, they stole pensions. If it hadn't been for the change in 2012, the pensioners wouldn't be feeding pigeons today, they'd be feeding on pigeons. They wouldn't be at peace today, which they are after this increase, but probably, if there hadn't been a change, they'd all be dead. Confucius says that when you're young, you have to cut off the stick you're going to lean on when you're old. That stick is retirement. Serbia is getting older and if they were left, the problems pensioners have had would have increased far more. They left the pensioners without a foundation, took out a loan to cover their holes, so they didn't see that they had spent their jobs and thus caused inflation and for borrowed money, foreign money, bought foreign goods and caused a 3.5% GDP decline. That was their tactics. Pensions are earned. They can't possibly understand that a certain part of GDP, and it's done in 11%, should go for a dignified age, but also other people have the right to a fair job, decent profit, accessible education and health care, and, of course, old people are entitled to a decent age. If you want to eat sweet fruit and delicious bread, you must sow wheat. You can't spend money, cook seeds, and then say you're not guilty of anything, and that's exactly what they did. To eat a sweet fruit, you must plant a tree. It gives the first few years a weaker generation. These investments and natural restoration planted this fruit and will produce fruit. If they were smart, they'd wait for some moment of their own and participate in that reading, but not right now, young trees break branches, which they intend to do anyway. Balsa Bozovic, a major Maldiv pirate, who spent 15,000 euros on a 10-day flight and said here that his leader from the union of thieves and frauds was rich abroad working. Look at the wonders! I watched that redheaded pirate report. He reported property in 2004, equal to 70,000 euros. That's when it comes to public office. So abroad, what he tried to justify as a Maldives junior earned 70, but earned 100m euros from 2004 to 2013. Supposedly in a market game, but, where wonders, while performing a public function. In doing so, he pushed only the PKK into a loss of 87m euros. Sounds like a spill to me. He got rich selling the main product, and that main product was fog. He cut the fog on the RTS. He also cut through the fog “Pinku. ” Now they're disgusting on reality, but, let's say, "Great Brother" Dragan Gilas is also shown on "Pinku". Today, Bosko Obradovic, the right-hand man Dragan Gilas, attacked me that I came from the farm to the Assembly. Yeah, right. I was doing corn yesterday. Yeah, the other day I was making brandy. Yeah, that took 15 days. Yeah, I don't think it's forbidden to be a producer and be in the Assembly. The one who never sweated thinks we should all be Chacan Librarians on Velija Ilic's proposal. I wasn't, he was. We can't all rob Hilandar, because he'll disappear, like him. We can't all rob Kolubara and miners, 50,000 euros took from there. We can't all follow the money, because the money from the election campaign instead of returning it to the state, he washed through a representative on his list, 30 million dinars, and it was my honor to file a criminal report. Apparently, the yellow judiciary, but the yellow 80%, has informed Bosko Obradovic in good time that I have filed a criminal report for money laundering, tax evasion and other crimes that have been committed by several persons, and I believe it is an organised crime, and therefore the criminal complaint went to the More Prosecutor's Office. Today they're talking about stealing. They're talking about stealing? They stole God's father. The people are out of their heads, the malts, the eyes are stolen, and they have the courage to talk about it today. We all have the right to a dignified age. Serbia is a gathering of smaller and larger nursing homes. Serbia should be rejuvenated, but Serbia should also work. Pensions have to be earned. Our old people deserve not to get their pensions out of credit, fraud, inflation, but to get it out of production, to earn that money. What I want the pensioners is for their pensions to grow bigger thanks to their economic growth, to raise their heads together with all of us, raise their state and national flag. I want them to take those pensions for a long, long time. That they've been taking pensions for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-24-0.u43320	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 33 of the agenda. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on points 5 to 33 of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set a date for voting on a proposal for a law, or decision, shall be immediately following the completion of the examination of that draft law, or decision. In accordance with this provision, I hereby determine Tuesday, 25 September 2018, starting at 10.00 hours as voting day on the agenda points of this session, which have been discussed, i.e. points 5 to 33 of the agenda. I thank all the MPs, ministers and their associates for their co-operation and participation in the debate. Thanks and I'll see you around.
