ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39023	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and we can continue our work. The first speaker on the list is Nada Kostic. Do you want a word? He's not here. The word has Vera Paunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39024	Dear Presidents, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers and other members of the government, the system of local self-government is one of the important segments within each state's political system. In the largest part of the developed world, municipalities and cities are taking over more and more classical state functions and responsibilities related to the resolution of their citizens' problems, which requires both more precise and more detailed regulation, the division of competences between the central level of government and the unit of local self-government, and that is also the intention of the bill addressed to us. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government brings a key paper on the regulation of the local community's position which is very complex. The existing Law on Local Self-Government almost does not regulate the issue of local community work, but is left to regulate municipalities, and their work depends mainly on the personal enthusiasm and engagement of individuals. Depending on the municipality to the municipality, we now have a situation where the authorities of these local communities are elected somewhere in secret elections, somewhere in public elections, at citizens' assemblies, and that in certain municipalities elections are not even conducted, but that members of these bodies are simply made up by the decisions of municipal structures. Therefore, by amendments to Article 74 of the existing law, the issue of local communities will be far more precise than the case has been so far. It is predicted that each local community will in future have to have its own advice to be elected in the direct and secret citizens' elections, and that the council of its members will be elected by the president of the local community. For the first time, the fruits will be legally recognised by certain local community affairs, so they will have the right to propose measures and development to improve municipal and other activities in their field and, more importantly, have the right to adopt their own financial plan for the implementation of these activities. In Article 76 and by adding two new members 76a and 76b, more detailed rules will be developed on the interaction between the authorities of the local community and municipalities and will be envisaged when the council of the local community can be disbanded and new elections can be called. The law insists that the engagement of the president and members of the local community council cannot be on a professional basis, i.e. that this does not create additional financial costs for the local community budget. In addition to the changes in Article 68 that provide for a mandatory public debate on certain documents from the work of local self-government, if the signatures so require 5% of the number of voters of the total local self-government. I think all of this should create a basis for far greater satisfaction for citizens through the work of local self-government. Other important amendments to this law concern the number of members in individual local authorities. Although this should essentially be the autonomous domain of decision-making of local self-government, practice and here, unfortunately, provides a number of negative examples. It is not rare to place and appoint several people in certain municipalities to various high executive functions, from deputies and assistant presidents to members of municipal councils, whose responsibilities are often intertwined and for their work earning profits, burdening local budgets. In the future, up to 15,000 people will be able to be appointed to the municipality by only one municipality president, up to 50,000 residents, and up to 100,000 residents up to three, according to the latest census data. Similar rules apply to the number of municipal council members, where they can have up to five members for municipalities up to 15,000, up to seven for municipalities up to 50,000, to nine for municipalities, or cities up to 100,000, or 11 for cities over 100,000. These additions in this area will introduce a certain order and achieve greater labour and savings effects in local budgets. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I believe that all the legal proposals that are on the agenda today are very high-quality and concise. Law proposals relating to the local self-government system should enable them to re-function the local community system, to address the specific problems of citizens to be entrusted to those of their representatives who are best acquainted with them. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group will give its absolute support in the voting day for the adoption of all laws on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39025	Thank you. The next speaker is Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39026	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, Minister Ruzic, we have nine goals in front of us of your ministry, and that's what you promised and you said that this is a solution, so that citizens have a more efficient and modern administration, or service for their daily lives. I consider some of these goals, not to say most, more than necessary for what the challenges today in Serbia are, and I think you've put most of these goals into good formula. You have also proposed here certain measures to make the work of municipalities and cities more effective, how to better apply the Institute of Direct Democracy and more public involvement in certain issues concerning the lives of every man in Serbia. We welcome them. But what does not go in line with your goals and does not go in line with your goals is what happens daily on the ground in Serbia, in everyday life in Serbia. You have a situation today where a Zoran Milojevic Zelja, during yesterday, during the day before yesterday, visits the Municipality of Paracin, threatens the council, tries to push a majority that is not in line with the will of the citizens expressed in the elections. How do we talk seriously about these topics if we know that one of the largest SNS beatings has been in possession of the Paracino municipality for days, trying to scare or enable any other majority of those who exist in the Community? If the elections are every four years, if the government there is stable, if Mr. Sasa Paunovic as president of the Paracino municipality with extraordinary results, is it the only problem that he comes from the Democratic Party and what is one of the few, if not the only opposition president of the municipality today in Serbia? I think it is unnecessary to talk about your ministry's objectives, goals that are very precise, as you can see, while other things are happening on the field in Serbia. A member of the SNS's main board is trying to win over a majority that the citizens did not choose, in order for the head of the Sasa Paunovic municipality to be replaced, so that he can bring one of his beatings or criminals to lead the Paracin municipality, past what Serbian citizens voted in the 2016 elections. Is the situation safe for the citizens of Serbia and what do you as a ministry, since you advocate an efficient, modern administration, what can you do to make the citizens feel safer? We also welcome that, together with your associates, you came to the National Assembly today and you showed certain and political capacity, since a few days ago we had the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia who proposed the finance minister, did not bring any associates, not one minister, among other things, either you, and showed what he claims to be public, that he is not a political prime minister but exclusively technocrat, which says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no political capacity to deal with such problems. If you have political capacity, show it, because one wish cannot interfere with the work of the Minister for Local Self-Government, because one minister cannot have less power than one beating who goes from municipality to municipality and tries to end the will of the citizens in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39027	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39028	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. The most brutal violation was the dignity of the National Assembly just before, in the minutes used by the previous speaker, to tell the worst story about the SNS, about the members of the SNS. And what's worse than that, it's that he used so many lies when it comes to the situation in the Paracian municipality. He mentioned some kind of wish, and I don't know what else. The truth is that Paracian is ruled by a group of criminals led by DS and Sasa Paunovic, a paracynic despot. He mentioned just before that someone wanted to violate the election will. The election will has long been violated in Paracino, precisely thanks to the criminal methods of Sasa Paunovic, who buys committees there and who knows what else he does in this regard. So don't make up any beatings, don't make up any criminals. The Serbian Progressive Party has nothing to do with it. The citizens of Paracino will replace you in the next election. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39029	Comrade Balsha, if you spent a long time in the O.R., you'd know there's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic): What do you care how much anyone spends in the O.R.? What do you care if he's in the O.R.? I give you a warning. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Radoslav Milojic: What is the warning? Shame on you. What do you care who's in the O.R. and when? What are you here, supervisor? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been words here, and above all, Article 27 has been injured, there have been reports of some SNS beatings. The day before yesterday, he was beaten by batinas Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boško Obradovica and others, Bozidar Milic, who is 48 years old, whose eyes are closed, who only asked those who block the roads with jeeps, BMWs, audiences, why do they do it? The beatings are told by those who in 2008 trampled their heads with police boots and killed Ranko Panic. They're talking about beatings. (Radoslav Milojic: Shame on you or on Martinovic, you lie like Vukic. ) The batinators are told by those who in 2008 were in every municipality in which the Democratic Party was not in power to send brigades of the intervention police to violently destroy power that is not their will, because in every municipality from 2008 to 2012, the Democratic Party had to be, whether the people wanted it or not, in the power of the Democratic Party. In 2007, the U.S. By order of the Democratic Party, Marijan Risticevic was replaced in the water management because the Democratic Party, or their then head, decided by the province's Democratic Party's board for Vojvodina. From 2008 to 2012, all of Serbia was under terrorism, all of Serbia's local self-government was under the terror of the Democratic Party. I ask you, here, and I end up with, how much money from the republican or provincial budget of the AP Vojvodina could get any municipality in Serbia, in the AP Vojvodina, where there was no DS in power? He couldn't get a single dinar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39031	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39032	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when the son of one bodyguard talks about beatings, that's the first warning sign. I'll remember the president or vice president of Beocin municipality, when they saw that he was going to lose power in India in 2015... (Alexandra Jerkov: Is this a violation of the Rules of Procedure? )......................................................................................................... They hired the beatings to prevent the council from voting against the president of the municipality of Petar Filipovic. It is the same Petar Filipovic who has now organised blockades with a top-notch key chain from the Dragan Djilas party. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. So, when someone who wanted to beat up migrants was talking about the beatings on the 8.3.2013, one of them was present here... (Radoslav Milojic: You sent your wife.) )......................................................................................................... Just because they're... Well, at least I didn't drink the tank for one night, like the one he threw at me. So he drank 470 and some thousand dinars for one night for a beer, 300 and some beers, and that's why he got the nickname of a haineken. After that, he came across a man's bar at 63 years old and there's a criminal report about it and now he's throwing it at me. They only attacked migrants because they wanted to spend two nights in Mladenov. Here's a photo of the 8.3.2013... Radoslav Milojic: Do you see this, Arsic? )......................................................................................................... And today they're talking about beatings? Mr. Chairman, in accordance with Articles 108 and 109, you should have made this noise, noise, etc. I don't know how they're coming to the session, and I suggest we maybe bring them into a cage if they're as they are right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39033	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39034	I thank the chairman. In addition to being a injured member of the 107th National Assembly, as my fellow MPs have pointed out, Article 108 has been injured, as you are obliged to take care of the order at the assembly session. You should have warned the previous speaker, because he's the last one who has the right to talk about morality. I will remind the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Leskovec that in 2009, in person Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas came to Leskovac and legalized the purchase of the council and went to the cameras and publicly said that and thus got most of it in Leskovac, so that the last one who has the right to speak here about the morale of the previous speaker. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: Adjudication of the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39035	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39036	Thank you, Chairman. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I refer to Article 106 of Section 2. No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, although as I speak, there is a screaming on the other side of the hall. I don't know why DS MPs are so nervous. Chairman, I don't know if you've heard how Col. Milojic threw the president of our parliamentary group to Martinovic – you're lying like Vukic and what they're getting you. I'd like to welcome you to give your colleague's notice. (Radoslav Milojic: I apologize, who no one lies. ) (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'd like the cameras to record this rampage on the other side of the hall. I don't know why you're letting parliament work like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39037	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39038	Mr. Arsic, there's a Rules of Procedure before me. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39039	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39040	Thank you, Chairman. So, this crew across the street the other day was in Shappac, a town where they publicly confessed in the Sabac municipal court that they were buying votes. It is the only party in Europe that has admitted publicly in court that has bought votes. (Maya Vidinovic: Arsic, how do you conduct this session? ) The team led by Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Dilas, Dusan Petrovic gathered in Šapac and tried to take over in a certain way... (Radoslav Milojic: To take power, what? )......................................................................................................... To take over on the street, blocking bridges and everything... It won't go well with your hand, sir. (Radoslav Milojic: So we are in power. You are in power because you bought councilmen. Mr. Chairman, in 2012, they kidnapped the councilors. At three o'clock in the morning, they raided the houses of the Sabbath councilmen and kidnapped the councilmen in Shupco. Therefore, I ask that these and similar attacks, especially when it comes to Whispers, be excused and warn the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39041	Since I see where this is going, I'm setting a break, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, five minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Col. Balša Bozovicu, session interrupted in accordance with Article 112. The National Assembly, which says if the president of the National Assembly can't bring order to the session by regular measures, will set a break until order is established. I'm setting up order now. Therefore, the breach of the Rules of Procedure will have to be used some other time. (Radoslav Milojic: Good for you. ) The word has a People's MP, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39043	I guess the DS will let me have the right to speak, like the others, because I'm registered on the speaker list. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. There are no questions as to where she comes from now, whenever I answer to discuss and on the subject of the agenda, not to argue with someone or yell at political inexperiences. Since yesterday's discussions, I have only been distracted by one, because she has just announced a topic that will be addressed by MPs of opposition parties and which is probably from what is said popularly, "message box" said what to repeat at this session and about what to make the topic political, and that the topic in fact does not exist. It was a very unusual discussion of one of the MPs who recently belonged to a party that supports Vuk Jeremic, and thus all the other political leaders of opposition parties, that she simply said with enthusiasm that on June 28th she would discuss some quasi of Sasa Paunovic's appeal, the president of the Paracino municipality on the Monitoring Committee of the Local and Regional Authorities Congress. She was simply happy that it would be just on June 28th, one of the symbolically important dates for the Serbian people and for the history of our country. I can't help thinking that the honourable MP and her mime were telling me how lucky she was that she was able to sue some politicians from the DS of her country with false accusations to an international organisation, which I think is unfortunate, and not something to be sent to, regardless of whether the government or opposition are praises. So you can simply see from a political experience that someone with this much experience feels with their instinct what's really going on here. That is why it is very important, not to convince those who have received it now as a mantra to repeat today, but to Serbian citizens to know what all the people who are in the opposition parties in our country are doing and how they imagine that power can be won in this country beyond the elections. (Alexandra Jerkov: Theme. ) Yes, I'm very much on the subject, and it's a matter of intellectual ability whether someone understands when someone discusses on the subject rather than as "the Kraut tra la la" repeats something that someone told him in advance to speak or yell at the microphone, yells - Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are not a subject, but rather a complaint from Sasa Paunovic, president of the Paracin municipality. He says opposition municipalities. It's not an opposition municipality, it's a municipality like any other municipality in this country, and at the head of that municipality is a member of the DS. There are no opposition and no opposition municipalities, one. The appointed addressed first to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and I would like to draw attention and perhaps someone is following it from some Belgrade office, so they will also deliver these allegations to Congress in the Council of Europe, completely different from the requirements addressed to Congress. So it depends on who's listening and who's supposed to be okay with it. One complaint goes to the ministry, and another, completely politically colored without any facts, without any arguments went to the ears of the foreign market. It comes to you as if a singer is recording something that could sell well in Serbia, and a little bit adjusts what could be sold well on a foreign market that is simply sensitive to the issue of democracy in local self-government. Of course, our Ministry, it seems to me, I don't know if I chaired, but as far as I was informed, the minister responded to that first letter of appeal that Sasa Paunovic, leader of the DS, sent to the president... (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. Arsic, I have the right to speak. ) Can I finish or will Balsa Bozovic take away my word as one proven Democrats in Serbia? I would ask that you allow me to speak uninterruptedly of a very important issue for the Republic of Serbia. Very important. (Alexandra Jerkov: This is not a topic. Yes, Mrs. Parliament spoke about it yesterday, and you were very pleased with her... (Stefana Miladanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) So the letter of the president of the municipality sent by Minister Ruzic does not refer to any specific situation at all. He refers only to his concern that there may be a situation. My political assessment is, as every citizen hears this will certainly conclude, that he is very concerned only about one fact, and this is a possible loss of power somewhere in the future. So, Sasa Paunovic writes complaints and the minister, but writes a complaint of course for the foreign market, just because he expresses great concern that he is a bit of a clumsy English language in his letter and speaks, that maybe he could get a shift and he, my God, could no longer be the president of the municipality. It's just such a worrying fact, but in the end, and in the first case, by the letter of the law, it's decided only by the citizens of that municipality. The Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government will not decide, nor will the minister decide, and he must have learned that, as Sasa Paunovic is quite a schooled man. He was in the U.S. to prepare for the exercise of power in our country. He was rewarded by NAED, a young and prospective politician for the future of the state. So he knows very well what he's doing and what he's writing. He complained of informally collecting the signatures of a political party's citizens. Look at the great tragedy, it is forbidden in our country to perform political action if it is a municipality in which someone from the DS rules. He complains about why the citizens of the municipality sign and thus express their position on the current local political government. I don't see anything controversial about it, except the tendency to ban citizens from expressing their views in writing or verbal terms about local self-government. It seems to be forbidden when it comes to DS. So, the ministry, of course, rejected those unmistakable allegations about pressures and something else, he complained about making it impossible for the Paracino municipality to hire people, which again is a lie, not to tell a false lie, because now I'm going to tell you that it's obstructing the Paracino municipality. So it's a big lie that's being placed out there again, even with us. He got the consent to hire a total of 13 persons indefinitely and 35 persons at a specified time and that's true and let the minister deny me if my data is not correct. It therefore has the most favourable treatment in relation to employment in relation to other municipalities in a similar situation compared to the number of employees. What, then, is he complaining, and why is it that in his municipality, some government in Serbia is preventing him from being employed? I don't know what you've got against my discussion, except I'm telling the truth that the President of Parachin Municipality is making up here and that he's part of the project like that, now that we're collecting fuel, at the price of raspberries, and I don't know what else is going to happen, we're suffocating local self-government. Don't make it up, please, and this is a very dangerous thesis that you're going through and you need to think about why DS is trying to get someone else to rule, not the citizens of this country, and why you're complaining abroad, inventing and muddying Serbia. I was mayor of the New Now. I was blocked by Bojan Pajtic as the president of the AP Vojvodina. No project could have gone through with him. Your authority was also in the Republic, yes, Mrs. Jerkov. It never occurred to me to write complaints abroad. I would be ashamed to spit on Serbia and write that Bojan Pajtic and DS in the republican government do not give some local self-government that is opposition money. It's a shame. I would die of shame just as Sasa Paunovic should behave. Of course, let's see now and that appeal addressed to the Congress of Local Self-Government, just so you see. This is one thing, and it's still writing to strangers. I want to tell you first who he's making the complaint to, just to find out. It's a huge complaint, it just came out, I can tell you. He's got someone who has the privilege of hiring people like this in the Paracino community, and other municipalities can't get a license. For example, the Southern District can't get permission to hire and receive several more veterinary inspectors and other inspectors, and the Parachin municipality like, you say, the opposition municipality, whatever it means, gets 35 people a year, plus 13 for good. I don't know who should appeal to the Congress of Local Self-Government, to appeal to SNS or Mr. Paunovic? So let's start with an ingenious complaint against Serbia. This is a complaint against Serbia, so we understand each other. Anyone who wants to discuss it should first read, see the contents of what Sasa Paunovic wrote about his country, especially as the report of the five-year monitoring for 2017 had an absolutely positive tone. Then I don't understand why someone wants to report to the monitoring committee now to take some other situation. The right of participation, reportedly, at the June 28th meeting, which we will all celebrate along with the monitoring commission, is being attended by representatives of Serbia all of the Monitoring Committee. Now watch who are members of the aforementioned committee from Serbia, so Paunovic Sasa. So he'll be considering his appeal there. Sasa Paunovic complained, and then went there and considered the appeal, and of course, with his confirmation, he also reported the participation of Zoran Alimpic from Belgrade, regardless, he no longer has any function at the local level, but that you who represent local self-governments, he also represents your interests, again, from the DS, he will, he will immediately confirm that he is going to help his counterpart Sasa Paunovic to a little support and his imaginary allegations of the state of local self-government in Serbia. Very interesting. I think the Permanent Conference, no matter who runs the Permanent Conference, would be dedicated to who the members of our committee are. I don't mean Paunovic, but what will Alimpic do if he doesn't have any more functions at the local level? What's he doing there? Who's he representing? What local self-government does he represent exactly, MP Balsa Bozovic? I don't know who he represents, the DS who intends to muddle the state on that committee and nothing else? I don't know, he used to be the former president of the Belgrade City Assembly, and that seems to be the title, once you win it, you have every privilege forever and you represent local self-government abroad. It's not nice what I'm saying, but someone has to tell you the truth. That complaint against the state of Serbia was addressed to Congress, so we heard it yesterday from an honourable letter, we heard it from the minister, here, I like to repeat it several times, and it says – it is addressed, it says – to various international institutions. And who was he complaining about in Paracino Community? US Embassy in Belgrade. I don't mind, but then the appeal should go to the addresses of all the embassies accredited in Belgrade. Does this bother what I'm saying? You're just giving me the incentive to keep talking. So the US Embassy in Belgrade should consider appeal from the Paracino municipality. I agree, I don't mind, but I don't know why this isn't addressed to other embassies in our country, that all of this crucial issue of democracy in Europe and in the world are dedicated equally, everyone. I think this is a terrible one problem. We don't need to talk about other points anymore. Sasha is most important, because she expresses concern, afraid that one day she might not be in power, in accordance with the law. I don't know what's going on here, but good. The European Committee of the Regions, the Council of European Cities and Regions, the Committee for decentralisation of Local Self-Government, the Association of Local Democracy agencies and the Commissioner for Human Rights. I am sorry that he did not use the summit yesterday between the President of the United States and the President of North Korea to put on the table during the negotiations and this very, very important point, because democracy in the world has seriously broken down, because maybe Sasa Paunovic will run out of power one day. These, I suggest, since these meetings will be further, that the two of them consider this important issue, and perhaps to extend to the summit one attended by China and the Russian Federation. I think this important question deserves it. Whoever it is, I'm advocating all the embassies. They choose and harass an ambassador in Serbia who does not know what to do. Only Sasa Paunovic still misses with his appeal. Now let me find another complaint. As a matter of fact, his appeal describes the political situation in Serbia. He complains that from 167 like this, since this is English, I'll try to translate it for you. Of 167 municipalities, it says -- only in six municipalities are the majority of political organisations without the participation of SNS. So, what's dramatic about it? I don't understand. I suppose the Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government thinks equally if the citizens of some local self-government voted for the SNS, voted for its coalition partners, then I guess they have the right to form a municipality. He says it's an alarming fact. That's how Mr. Paunovic's appeal begins. Next, he says – that's terrible. It says – but they also have a majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's the same fact. That's why I'm saying, it's no longer for Congress of Local Self-Government. It's for Summit Trump and his North Korean colleague, because this is taking on incredible conditions. He complains to foreigners about election results in Serbia. In fact, he complains about the citizens of Serbia. He probably wants to ask the Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government whether maybe Serbian citizens can change, so Serbian citizens go, I don't know, to live in Spain, and those from Spain to come to vote for Sasa Paunovic and DS, I guess. I don't see what kind of complaint that is. A complaint in which you speak as much as anyone rules in which municipality. I like the man. I'd like to meet him in person, drink coffee, because when it's hard in my life, you sit down with Sasha Paunovic and he makes you laugh. But this is dangerous. Without irony, what he's doing is dangerous for Serbia, because they take it seriously and take it seriously. People can't understand that there are politicians in our country who have no borders and who are going to muddle the country in every place. So, I'm actually worried about this. Then he uses the terms to collect signatures, be careful, collect signatures, that's, say, illegal action. I don't know where the illegal action is collecting signatures, talking to its supporters, Serbian citizens. Then let's write a complaint that illegal action is certainly a roadblock, a rabble protest, a coffee drink on the market with its supporters or others. I don't know, Sasa Paunovic, an Ingenious Democrats, says in her appeal – illegal action, and complains about it and it's something amazing. Then he complains about one of the SNS MPs' speeches. I'm telling you, no one has read this complaint alive, but there are those who really listen to one of the discussions where I come to cry over Sasha Paunovic's fate, then get interested, take that appeal and look at it. He complains about the speech of the MPs, one politician from another party. He says -- he announced that the citizens of Paracino might change their minds, political will and change power in Paracino. So what? Well, I don't know if anyone's going to die because one day in the election someone's going to change the will of the citizens and someone else for a couple of years or a couple of months or a couple of days is going to run the local government. He says this - it is clear that he is a model, he is also an analyst, and everything he says – simulations of petitions and, please, this is also about parliament, since this is a difficult invention, he says – declarations the national parliament will bring about on this issue. I am really shocked that Sasa Paunovic has a high opinion of herself that parliament, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will consider at all this complaint or the situation in that municipality, which is certainly bad, because man has no time to worry about municipal problems, but is sitting down and writing these scientific papers on 500 pages that she sends through Congress of Local Self-Government and says that we are, in fact, making up lies, I don't know whether I have the right to write to Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government and to say that this is an absolute fiction, to bring a declaration here about this situation, and it says that it will certainly be adopted in this Parliament, because our SNS party has a majority. So, such a monstrosity one structure that I really care about, because who knows what any of you are writing around the world, and it doesn't come to us and you're muddying the country. I hope this kind of development will not be realised, because he has to stay in power, I add, so I, he says, informed again, one lie, I don't know about the others he cited, but he says he informed me as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He made that up. He never informed me of anything, and I don't know why I would consider the question of Paracino, but he wants to write, to beat up empty straw, to buy documentation so that the parties are fascinated by the poor condition and the relationship of the central authorities to the Paracino municipality and to ban the possibility that other parties in the Paracino municipality are performing political action, we must not criticise it and this is clearly trying to protect them from any change in government. If I were to ask myself, and I don't wonder anything about the Paracin municipality, I would insist that Sasa Paunovic stay at the head of the Paracin municipality, which is not questionable at all, because she doesn't even touch anyone there, and that she continues to run the Paracin municipality like this, that she does nothing else, let her deal with politics alone, let her muddle the national parliament, make up that he wrote something to the president of parliament, that she forbids the citizens of Paracino to declare his work and, most importantly, let her muddy Serbia. I wish him all the best, he'll stay in history recorded as the president of a municipality that was muddying Serbia, making up that I don't know what's going on there either. Let him pass me by in those memos, and make up that he has given me anything, as he has not. Let the permanent conference deal essentially with its work, to see which people stayed in the delegations, and do not perform any more functions in local self-governments. It would take the Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government to know that we have some false representatives of local self-government, that these are all members of the same political party, DS, and that they use... (Maya Vidinović: It's a lie. It's not a lie, it's the truth. That's Sasa Paunovic and Zoran Alimpic from Belgrade, according to the Paracino, better reported to be there, to consider the appeal they wrote themselves. It's the same fantastic democratic shift in understanding democracy, you write, and you sit across the street like this, and you're considering, and you write it again, and so on. I ask him not to write just one embassy in Belgrade. They do not have time to consider issues to be discussed by the Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government. They do some other things, but let them deliver it to the entire diplomatic crust when they're out of work, so they can have a little laugh at their meetings, and we need to be sad about how opposition politicians treat their country. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39044	The word is made by MP Diana Vukomanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39045	Thank you, Chairman. I refer to a Member of 107 who, as you know very well, protects the dignity of the Assembly and also prevents the direct address of one MP to another. To avoid this becoming a replica of my distinguished predecessors and colleagues, Maja Gojkovic, I would like to point out and put an emphasis precisely on the violation of Parliament's dignity, because we have been here a very dangerous one for a long time, if anything dangerous for Serbia, then it's a dangerous division into so-called. patriots in power and labeling traitors to all those who disagree with the ruling majority's views, whether they are politicians, MPs, councilors or ordinary citizens. So it's a very dangerous division. The predecessor pointed to a democratic right of a Serbian citizen to complain to the Council of Europe, as I remind you that in 2007, this Assembly confirmed the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was brought by the Council of Europe, and it uses a mechanism that is common in Europe and which is legitimate. So it's not an act of betrayal, it's not an act against patriotism, it's just keeping local democracy in Serbia. I would like to say to this occasion also that, according to this analogy that my distinguished colleague Gojkovic, the parents of the missing children, who complained to the Council of Europe, or the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, could be identified as insufficient patriots because they cannot find justice and cannot find a legal remedy. So it's dangerous to divide into bigger or smaller patriots and insult the dignity of all of us and this congregation. We're all equal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39046	Since you, my colleague Vukomanovic, mentioned some things, I have not noticed any division of patriots and others in the presentation of my colleague Gojkovic and do not mix grandmothers and frogs because the president of the municipality is a state official... (Radoslav Milojic: And the President of the Assembly is not?) )......................................................................................................... A state official... (Radoslav Milojic: and local. )......................................................................................................... and local self-government are state authorities, if you didn't already know, and therefore, as the holder of government, there are not all rights as non-political citizens. He represents a local... (Balsa Bozovic: What? ) I respond to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. So if the loss of power is the reason for someone to address international institutions, where it's the result of a change of political will, then it's not normal. I'll tell you how they changed your colleagues who you now support power. In a municipality called Golubac, which has 7,000 voters, they changed power... (Diana Vukomanovic: Rules of Procedure... I answer to your violation of the Rules of Procedure. They changed power, where there are only 7,000 voters, by sealing the president of the municipality at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. These people, who were then illegally and unconstitutionally removed from power, did not want to muddle and embarrass their country, regardless of what the DS led. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. All right. The word is made by MP Maja Gojkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39047	Thank you. Article 27. I think you should run a session and use the Rules of Procedure and not let someone who didn't ask for a replica. I don't know why my colleague didn't look for a replica. You're not a colleague. [[Balsa Bozovic: I was looking for a replica.]] You're a colleague. You know what, the truths that have been made here, which it repeats for the second time, are really alarming and that if it were someone who didn't understand politics, I would shake my hand, but it's dangerous what a colleague keeps saying, whether it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure or in her speeches. Apparently, they got a mantra to keep saying someone's in danger, so somebody can't, someone can't. He can write a complaint whoever he wants. Of course he should complain about the possibility that one day he might lose power. It's a natural and human fear, it turns into a bed, it's hard for him, maybe one day it's not the president of the municipality, but it's important what's being said. You can't put the untrues at the expense of the state. It's terrible that someone is false, to tell the president of parliament. He's lying. He's lying to the president of the municipality you're defending, he's lying. Is that the principle you stand for? Radoslav Milojic throws it away. He's lying. He won't get a warning from someone who's telling the truth. Show me his memo. You haven't read his complaint, and you're defending it here, so you haven't read it. You don't know what the complaint says. You know what the complaint should contain? It's a fact of state, not the fears of someone else's. Please hold the session. Do not engage in debates with MPs, but conduct a strict session. Article 27 says that. I think you're violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39048	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) Right to the replica of MP Balša Bozovic. (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What does that look like? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39049	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is all that we have heard in harmony with common sense, let alone in accordance with the law and the Constitution, that is the first and the basic question. That a traitor and nepatriot were considered to have used the same mechanisms used by other municipal presidents across the EU when they were threatened with the rights of the state administration minister and local self-government, to say that Sasa Paunovic is a traitor because she wants order in Serbia, to respect the constitution and laws, to respect the resolutely in charge of the minister -- then Sasa Paunovic is a traitor. How can I tell you, it's more than rude without you reacting to it. On the other hand, the political action of Zoran Milojevic Zelje cannot be legitimate because he is a man who, by beatings, tries to alter the electoral will of the citizens of Paracino and in other municipalities of other Serbian citizens. So that's what's not under the law and the Constitution. At that time, he will answer and end up behind bars, and that is a political promise, the rule of law behind which the DS stands, anyone who pressures the councilmen, the citizens who beat them, who forces them. Says National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic that this is political action. It's not political action. It's violence. Serbia's president said the opposition can only replace him in the elections, and here the opposition is being replaced in certain municipalities, primarily opposition leader Sasa Paunovic, past the choice of violence and threats. Then one day there'll be a bigger wish than a wish and a replacement for you, which we don't want. Which we don't want. But it's a mantra you've established.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39050	I thank my colleague Bozovic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39051	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 103th position 8 whenever it was difficult for Serbia, DS was on the side of those who did not want Serbia well, and therefore their behaviour today regarding the municipality of Paracin and Saša Paunovic does not need to surprise anyone. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I'll tell you something that Cedomir Antić, who was a member of the DS at the time of those famous protests in 1996, in 1997, when they had a meeting at a foreign embassy and then ordered all the leaders of the protest, all the leaders of the opposition, the ambassador listened to them. Everyone of course attacked their own state and government then and then told them the next thing, I think he's telling them today -- you know, he says, gentlemen, I'm the ambassador of a great state, I'm finished one prestigious university... (Alexandra Jerkov: Mr. Arsic, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure? What's it all about? )......................................................................................................... These are the words of Cedomir Antića, who is now leading, historian, known by Marko Atlagic, also runs an advanced club. He said, this ambassador -- you know, I've graduated from a prestigious university in the United States, I'm an intellectual, but basically, he says, I'm a scum and I'm sent to Belgrade to work with the same kind of scum because they estimate that I'm doing my job well. That's how it was in 1996, 1997, and that's how it is today. Whoever does not believe, let him take and read the statement by Cedomir Antic about how the protests in Serbia were led in the winter of 1996 and 1997 when they protested on behalf of the coalition "Together". So the man told them in the face -- yes, I'm scum, but they sent me here to talk to the same kind of scum, because they thought I was doing a good job.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39052	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. (Balsa Bozovic: Arsic, what is this? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39053	I'm sorry, I've been looking for a replica because I've been mentioned several times. If I can get a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39054	Since I see there's been this much damage to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with... (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39055	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. This is where Mr. Balsa Bozovic told the lie. He said someone told someone he was a traitor. I don't think you're traitors. I think you're the bad guys. Why? Because in your biography, you write that last CIA course. Now imagine that someone in America from congressmen wrote that they had been trained by the Federal Security Service in Russia. Imagine how long that congressman would last, how long he'd sit in Congress at all, and I think maybe at night, maybe dark, but he wouldn't. Imagine if a congressman wrote that he had been trained by the BIA in Serbia. I think that would be the end of the United States. Now someone's talking about the rule of law, the rule of law and Mr. Chairman, can't talk about the rule of law, someone who threatens citizens, someone who says he can block, like Balsa Bozovic, Slavija. Is the government the right to block citizens? Is the government the right to take out a desk on the traffic tape? Is it the rule of law that you play football on Gazela? Is the rule of law, about this well increased, to block the ambulance with the sick? Is that the rule of law? I don't know who Zelja is, but I know who the wishes are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39056	Bring the end. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. (Alexandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojičić, Balša Bozovic, Nemanja Sarovic: By Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39057	Vice President, thank you. More than once... (Alexandra Jerkov: You have no right. Thank you, Mrs. Jerkov won't tell me, I'll file a complaint with Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government after they stop me from speaking. It's Mrs. Jerkov, as the greatest advocate... Please respond, let me speak and give me a full replica, otherwise I must appeal to the Congress of Local and Regional Self-Government, and first Minister Ruzic, and I mean it most seriously. (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure. They're threatening, yelling, screaming. I'm scared. I'm really afraid to speak in this House. Give me your word. People's MPs are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39058	All right. In accordance with Article 112, I am now setting a break until the order for the regular session is established, and then MP Maja Gojkovic will be given the right to reply. (Radoslav Milojic and Balša Bozovic: There is no right. It's a ten-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. He has a word, right to the replica, MP Maja Gojkovic. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking my colleagues to permit you, you'll get your rights later. (Alexandra Jerkov: First Rules of Procedure. ) (Balsa Bozovic: You cannot announce. Because I announced my colleague Maja Gojkovic before the break, I can. (Alexandra Jerkov: You were wrong. ) I announced my colleague Maja Gojkovic and please... (Radoslav Milojic: You were wrong. I was right. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. Well, you'll get the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. We won't negotiate when I've already given the word to my colleague, Maji Gojkovic. No negotiations. Please, no negotiations. I announced to establish order in the assembly, colleague Maja Gojkovic said. There is nothing left for me but to apply other provisions of the Rules of Procedure to seduce the order of the sitting. So, allow your colleague Maja Gojkovic the right to reply, and then you will have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov: Let him speak over the line? ) ) Here you are, colleague Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39060	Finally, you're running the session. I don't understand what it means to you – let your colleague speak. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) Regardless of this shouting from the bench, which have no other arguments, it is clear that the new president, but not the one chosen, but the one in the shadows, and the new manners, aggressive shouting and threats. The false quote of Balša Bozovic is that anyone in this room has told someone in this country that he is a traitor. I expect Balsa Bozovic to stand up and apologize to me, to apologize for the lies and fiction she brings here in direct television broadcast. I expect him to apologize to me without suffocating someone behind his back, and stop making it up. [[Balsa Bozovic: Here I am, looking for a replica.]] If there's no argument, then fine. What really scares me, that's how he ended his speech, which is that one day there'll be some bigger bully than the bully he mentioned here, so we'll see. And, indeed, it doesn't matter to be in the SNS, sitting here in an O.R. where a minority terrorises the majority, screams and disallows to talk here and speak openly, publicly about Sasha Paunovic's complaint sent by the Minister for Local and State Self-Government and the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government. I think it is our right and our obligation to speak to the citizens about every item of the agenda and how and what Sasa Paunovic wrote. What I have said and what I stand behind – that they are false here, that he has never referred to me, as the President of this Parliament, any appeal and that it is shameful that... Radoslav Milojic: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39061	You're bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39062	Yes, time is the greatest argument to those who do not know and cannot respond to true allegations, responding to aggression, lies, and threats. And, let me tell you something, no matter what you threaten, no matter what you threaten, this is what the democracy you announce looks like. (Alexandra Jerkov: Shame on you. This is what the democracy you're announcing looks like. Just warn me to take off my glasses before this democracy takes place in Serbia, so you don't hurt me very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39063	My colleague Bozovic, I would have given you the right to a replica, but before that, you have a colleague named Jerkov, a colleague of Milojic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic: If it is according to the Rules of Procedure, fine. ) All right, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39064	103, Mr. Arsic. Please, what does this session look like? How do you imagine this Assembly looks and how you imagine this session is going, if the President of the Assembly gets a word here whenever he asks, however he asks, at the moment he asks, besides all the rules of the Rules of Procedure, he says two and a half minutes, he abuses his right to participate in the debate as any other MP and you allow him to do so. But it's just a picture and an opportunity for Serbia that you're making. Serbia, in which SNS-electeds are allowed everything, is not allowed anything. Serbia, in which this same Zelja, which has been reported to the police, I was personally present when our Temerin activist, who beat up three years ago, in the SNS rooms, gave his name and name to the police, who has not done anything since, because he was protected by the SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39065	Comrade Jerkov, you are abuse of the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39066	Mr Arsic, am I, in your court, the only one who has done this today, and when it comes to it, to point to an injury in my conduct, I have taken advantage of the opportunity to say something about the agenda, or do you think that it may have been the other MPs who have done so, that they have not even bothered to list a member of the Rules of Procedure and that you have allowed this broad heart, just because they were from the SNS? It's enough of a Serbia where the SNS can do whatever comes to mind. We in the congregation certainly will not allow it, and we will defend the citizens you harass, who you destroy, and who every day you try to spread your lies, just as you do to us and here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39067	Now, colleague Jerkov, since you advertised Article 103. Rules of Procedure, I can tell you that it's very difficult for me to run a session, because I hear from your benches howling, banging and yelling. (Alexandra Jerkov: Because you do not lead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ) Here, I can tell you that I haven't experienced for all these years as an MP, something like this. (Alexandra Jerkov: I am. I was also a national MP who did not support the government of the opposition, or anyone from the opposition at the time, while you were in power, did not do such things. (Alexandra Jerkov: You were shooting shoes.) ) You did not allow your colleague Maja Gojkovic to address the National Assembly. You've disrupted her entire exposure, and that's why I've allowed her to speak for a little while longer. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day? (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes, of course.) () Of course, it will come out. (Radoslav Milojic): How are you not ashamed that she answered the words of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov: Arsic, what is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39068	Thank you, and it's not easy. I know you're running this session next to this kind of aggression that's coming out on the left and yelling, insulting. I heard up here this one, for me, for the MP. I don't know, it's a primitiveism that should be asked by one who says it and should answer for his own behavior, and in front of Belgrade, they got zero votes, zero percent, so Serbia will judge them. According to Article 104, I had the right to receive a replica. Well, yes, there are so few that they had to import the Novosadians into the Belgrade City Assembly, Borko Stefanovic, so they don't seem to have enough members either. But Article 104 speaks of when an MP is entitled to a replica. I suppose that this, her, and that's me, I have the same rights as those who are screaming at the session today, blocking the work of the Parliament, and that I have the right to rephrase the MP who was insultingly expressing himself, who invented that in my speech I used the word traitor, who threatened to what would happen to me when they came to order one day, or their taboos, which we have seen these days. It's nothing new, the one who's written, who's an intellectual, knows what I'm talking about. He must have been reading Kurcio Malaparte's state impact technique, and then they got a little advanced in Canvas, and they simplified it for those who weren't very intellectually subdued, and we're seeing these exact methods these days. I'm blocking a little bit by car with columns, a little fajk photogravis that thousands of them are behind me, that citizen who's rebelling I beat up, and then I charge this other fight and I take 300 euros from his wallet. So it's all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39069	Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic mentioned Kurtsi Malaparte, as the DS gentlemen did not understand what this was about, the man wrote the following sentence – chaos is good, but only when it is well organized. Now, that chaos they've made these days, in the streets of Serbian cities, obviously failed. The new president, DS Dragan Gilas, told them that when you came to the Assembly, you would open a burst fire on SNS MPs. However, the SNS was not afraid of Dragan Gilas even when he was in power, and in particular it will not be afraid of Dragan Gilas now that in Serbia he is absolutely nothing but a tycoon who has become rich on the back and on the torture of this people. About the beatings, the threats, the violence, those who killed you, to remind you of Mr. Arsic and all the citizens of Serbia, Momira Gavrilovic, who killed Bosko Buh... (Balsa Bozovic: What does this mean? )......................................................................................................... who killed Nenad the Batchanin,... (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like? )......................................................................................................... who killed Ranko Panic, who killed journalist Milan Pantic, and who came to power with the same methods that today threaten Maja Gojkovic, violence, street, the burning of the National Assembly... (Radoslav Milojic: Arsicu, Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... By breaking in with machine guns into the National Bank of Serbia's building, beat harder, the Federal Customs Administration, the City Assembly, into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I invite them also Zoran Zivkovic, and everyone else to return stolen paintings, works of art, chairs from the National Assembly since 5 October, it has been more than 18 years... (Balsa Bozovic: Shame on you. )......................................................................................................... So it's high time the thieves returned what they stole from the citizens and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39071	Do you want the Assembly to declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Rules of Procedure. ) To my colleague Bozovic, did I hear that, while fellow Martinovic spoke, and listed the persons who were killed, that you mentioned his name. Do I take that as a threat to his safety? (Balsa Bozovic: I told you. You told me. I took it quite differently, as a very serious threat. (Balsa Bozovic: You're not very smart if you understand that. ) Now in accordance with Article 112, I am setting a five-minute break, that few MPs reduce emotions and fall adrenaline.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Kola Arsic, according to Article 112, took a break just to return the session to normal flows, to talk about what is the agenda point, and therefore we return to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39073	Mr. Milicevic, I've been looking for a word for an hour, but not according to the list of speakers, but according to the Rules of Procedure. You, whether you wanted it or not, were obliged to give it to me. If your colleague Veroljub Arsic has already brutally violated the Rules of Procedure, violated my rights, violated if you want the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, and you wish the session to return to normal course, this can be achieved only by normal conduct of the Rules of Procedure, by normal session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, unlike anything we have seen before. This whole, I'll say free, farce, because this is a farce, this is a carved conflict pre-prepared, where the actors got what they need to say. Some have come into all this because of political inexperience, but it is quite obvious to anyone who is politically written that this is a farce, that this is all pre-cuted. I really regret that you as the ruling majority do not have any political courage and you do not have enough sense for parliamentary democracy, that you approach seriously and solve problems in Serbia and schedule sessions and conduct sessions. It's been here since the beginning, since the session was called together, and then it's all freakish. Minister Ruzic is obviously completely relaxed and regrets God and has been coming since this morning, which he spent time with, like all of us who have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because it is clear that there will be no serious debate here. It won't be because the ruling majority didn't want it. What did you show this to? By who knows which way you united all the points of the agenda in a unique debate. This is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the Rules of Procedure prescribes conditions under which a debate can be brought together for certain laws, I repeat the laws, in no case can it be possible to bring together a debate on the choice of governors and vice governors and other points of the agenda with other laws. In order to be a single debate, laws must be interlinked and conditioned, so I would like Mr Ruzic to explain to me what is interrelated and conditional on the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, the election of governors, the election of vice governors and the election of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency. You know very well it's nothing. Your position is clear. You're yesterday, to say the least, giving answers not to use another term, but you saw for yourself that you don't have a worthy opponent here and that there's no serious debate here. The laws on local self-government and the state administration that are changing deserve it, and you have not been allowed as minister to join agendas to elect governors. What is done and the fact that Jorgenka Tabakovic is not here today in the O.R., shows that she has escaped, escaped from criticism, fled from the crime that is being put on her burden here, fled from the intricacies that are not only burdened with her but also proved through discussions of MPs. Then you found a solution. You said, "Here, we're not going to have a serious debate, we're going to suspend the Rules of Procedure, and we're going to talk about everything and everything, and then the MPs of the ruling coalition are going to talk for three minutes instead of two, and then they're going to get a word over the line, and then they can do anything." It's impossible to talk about all the laws that are on the agenda. We chose to talk about Jorgenka Tabakovic, to talk about her intricacies, to talk about the affairs she was involved in. There is rightly a theory of the fruit of a poisonous tree and it can be applied to this situation. If Jorgenka Tabakovic is a person who has no legitimacy, who has no moral credibility, to be at the head of the National Bank, then it is understood that all the consequences and all the consequences of what comes from her as governor, all her suggestions, all the decisions of the National Bank, that they are exactly according to that theory of the fruit of the poison tree, that they are both missing and must be. We asked concrete questions – how did Jorgenka Tabakovic, while she was a minister while she was a MP, manage to get a job in a public enterprise? How did she provide funds to buy an apartment in Rome? You're talking about fighting corruption all the time. You are citizens of Serbia countless times, from elections to elections, to be more precise, when elections pass, then forget it, but before each election, you promise to pass a law establishing the origin of the property. Why hasn't that law been passed so far? They promised it to the yellow ones, but you know the people. The crows don't dig their eyes. You are aware that if such a law were passed, the most likely would be struck by you who have been in power for years. You who have performed these public functions, you who have reached an enormous amount or an enormous number of properties in your possession, without being able to explain where you get that money. If you are not ready to question the top state officials first, and the governor of the National Bank certainly does, then how can you expect Serbian citizens to believe in this fight against corruption? The second question is: are you in agreement with this, and obviously, as soon as you do not change Jorgenko Tabaković, that she remains in office after having an affair with the employment of close relatives, after an affair was discovered that a member of her close family car of the National Bank practically drove to Belgrade daily for exams, for lectures, for the cost of the state, the cost of taxpayers. Don't tell us about how citizens will be consulted about spending financial resources. Of course, they won't decide, but they'll be consulted. If you are the problems that are evident, which are proven, which are undeniable, you will not recognize or recognize and remain silent and pretend that you are not interested. If that's not what you're interested in, then even these minor problems can't interest you at all. The National Bank of Serbia is also very important because of the fact that the way in which the exchange rate is maintained largely creates the financial situation in Serbia. Unreal dinar course is the basic generator of a major deficit that we have in the foreign trade. Watch out, the Swiss franc's going down, and the dinar's growing. Does this mean that our economy has suddenly surpassed theirs, that our currency is stronger? Did you hear anyone turn Swiss into dinars? Of course not. And while I'm already with the Swiss people, perhaps one of the biggest grudges of Jorgovanka Tabaković – which is persistently protecting foreign banks, rather than protecting citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have signed loans in the Swiss francs, who have been squiring back for years, and many of them still owe more than the original payment. We are asking you a question, because we can't have Jorgenki Tabakovic – is it true that the commercial bank is being sold, the largest domestic bank, or domestically owned bank, and that after that more than 90% of the banking market in Serbia will be in the hands of foreigners?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39074	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say something about a law governing elections in the councils of national minorities, in short. I would like to, although there have been a lot of criticism about the existing law and new legal solutions, I would like someone to tell me in this House whether somewhere in Europe and perhaps the rest of the world, there is a better legal regulation on the rights of national minorities than in Serbia? One of the basic rules regarding national minorities is to ensure through legal regulations that they preserve their national identity, cultural identity, language, customs and that they are able to participate positively in the political life of the state. And no one can argue that in Serbia one of the best possible ways has been solved. Now, if something is going to be written in some personal document, someone has forgotten that the identity card in the first place, a document proving identity, name, home address and ID card is not shown to everyone but to a representative of the competent national authority who is exercising public authority, or, if someone has completely interfered with the mind so that the data from the identity card is published on social networks, and then to come under the risk that someone may abuse these data, such as identity theft, theft money from current accounts, etc. And if that's a fundamental objection to this law, I ask my fellow Members to come up with something more original. Mr Minister, I only ask you never to repeat situations such as those of 2009, 2010, 2011, as was the case in the municipality of Golubac, when someone from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government announced the illegal and unconstitutional seals of the president of the municipality and the President of the Assembly and unlawfully assigned the right to someone else to make these stamps and illegally replaced the then president of the municipality of Nebojsa Mijović and the President of the municipality of Golubac. So, using the harsh force of the ministry. Well, that's how it was, and now someone's transferring us to how democracy is choking in Serbia. This is true and can be checked in "The Official Messenger", I think it's August 4th or 5th 2010. What democracy are they offering us here? Here, for two hours, we've been trying to establish order at the session, because someone failed to get that chaos he was planning to do in the streets of Belgrade and Serbia to transfer it to the National Assembly. That was the intention, no question of democratic and human rights, but to bring chaos into the Assembly, to show that citizens do not support this government. That is why he will have the opportunity in some subsequent elections to plead, both our policy and their policy, and until then let them fight in a fair, political way for that electoral body. When it comes to the central bank and the governor, I have listened to many, both unprofessional and untrue things. Someone said that the money in Serbia is strong. I'm not getting into that. Here, there are some other economic indicators and they need to confirm that. But what I know from the economy, the goal of a single currency is to keep it stable and to keep its movement within predictable frameworks. Because of such a way of conducting a course policy, you allow businesses in the first place, those who do business here, to have their own plans how and how to implement investments. This is one, not the primary business of the central bank, the primary business is to prevent inflation, i.e. to keep inflation in those frameworks that are provided for certain economic rules. The other one is a course. To prove how much political nonsense it is and how much it can be, when someone says it turns out to be ignorant, they say that the dinar is preserved in an artificial way in a strong course. Now, let the economist explain it to me -- how do we keep the money so it doesn't get cheaper than the euro, when the difference is bought in foreign exchanges for 2018 billion euros? So we didn't sell a billion euros, as some others did, but we bought a billion euros so that the dinar wouldn't become too strong. Well, you can check that out. Only if you don't want to see it. But that's a fact. Now we're going to start with that other political theory, which is that a dinar should lose some percentage value. Let's take a look at what it looks like in the economic contexts. If the dinar loses some percentage that's bigger than what's planned, first of all we have to ask the question of what's to do with devalue domestic capital in the real sector. He's getting cheaper now, demeaning himself. What happens to the standard of living of citizens who still have indexed loans in foreign currencies? Their wars are increasing. Then someone else says you're protecting the import lobby. None of them looked at the structure of our imports. So it comes first in Serbian imports of energy. So it's oil and gas in the first place. Now, who understands the economy again, if they collect oil and gas, does everything accumulate in Serbia? He's collecting. So, about 75% of domestic imports are either energy or re-promatter for export. You know, it's very easy to present political or legal theories that prove nothing. I present economic facts that are both accurate and easily verifiable. So, the central bank is taking a very important place both in the financial and economic systems of the Republic of Serbia and it is it that should give some stability on the financial market so that investment and expansion of production can be launched. Now, someone else has said, he says -- how come, again, I say, you always keep an eye on what you're saying, how is it that the funds that have business banks from year to year increase and argues that this is dangerous for Serbia's financial system? Absolutely not. First, they increase because they can no longer artificially buy for dinars from their surpluses in the euro and get out of Serbia's state. First, that. You know, those who were in power from 2008 to 2012, they sold the former regime to banks, they sold 450m euros from the sale of the Oil Industry of Serbia to business banks. You know how much? In less than a month. And then they're talking about how we're taking something and we're selling out some kind of property. Thus, the surplus liquidity of the banking sector is based on the fact that banks, their surpluses, cannot be placed in the purchase of foreign exchanges and these same foreign exchanges from the state. The ultimate goal is that through the implementation of laws that apply everywhere in the world, loans beyond the population and for the economy are cheaped. And who doesn't understand these economic rules don't deal with politics on economic issues? Ignorants. Furthermore, we have a story that it's a great sin that some domestic banks buy from the surplus of their state securities from value, and these same banks are actually forcing the rest of the banking sector to buy state records from values at lower interest. One more thing, these securities of value can be provided portfolios from the state record in value and for guarantees of loans from banks to citizens and businesses. Not to get into a situation like that with Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank or anyone else. So, it's not that the banks are charged for the damage they're doing themselves. Even more economic inaccuracy is that insurance companies are also buying state securities from value and that it is illegal. Well, no, they're supposed to transfer that money to business banks that are going to buy government securities from a much higher interest than they give to insurance companies. And let him read a little Insurance Act, well, he must know that for every policy to be concluded, whether for property, movable, immovable, life insurance, health insurance, one part of the money has to be transferred to certain funds or to the National Bank of Serbia from which property damage would be charged or under some other insurance rights. Now, if someone wants to leave it to someone else, not to the Serbian economy and to the Serbian banks, then we don't understand each other. The same thing to the soul they have the right to do both foreign banks and foreign insurance, I just don't know why they don't work. But that's not the problem I'd be dealing with. These are economic indicators recommending that Jorgvanka Tabakovic be re-elected as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, not what her salary or her hairstyle is, but the results that the National Bank has since she is governor. Just to remind you, today's dinar course is still less than it was when Jorgenka became governor in her first term. So, I don't know why some people care so much about the Swiss franc and say it's falling. Here, the man said, something that has nothing to do with economic rules, economic logic, the franc is defended by printing francs in the world. We keep the dinar stable on internationally recognised rules on how to maintain its national currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39076	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. He's not there. The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39077	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, from the proposed agenda, I will focus more on point nine of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which my colleagues and I have submitted for a simple reason to grant the status of the city to Prokuplje and Boru. I think it concerns first and foremost the possibility of developing those two, I can say the freest, least developed regions in the Republic of Serbia. Banishment and Bor are the only district seats in our country, and I think that's clear enough from the proposal that we made out of the explanation and that there are no big dilemmas which are why, by some logic of things, we should be unanimous in voting when it comes to it. I think it's logical that these two places, these two municipalities don't have the status of the city and the headquarters are the county. I can say that in and in these two cities, the paradigms of today's Serbia. They symbolize both the past and the present and best illustrate the economic, social and demographic and political movements, as well as the state's attitude towards these places, or should I say, towards the province. From this part I will focus more on the Toplička district and on Prokuplje and on some information about what is the situation in that district and I can only say that the Cup is the center of the Warm District that extends to 2,231 square kilometers and covers the municipalities of Prokuplje, Kursumliu, Žitoradje and Blace. According to the data, 91,754 people live in this area. It is an extremely poor part of Serbia. The economy is devastated by criminal privatisation. The average net earnings are 36,000 dinars and it is difficult to determine which of these four municipalities is in a difficult position. The biggest problem today is the reduction of population. The economy, as I have already said, has been devastated by criminal privatisation, and then many villages have been devastated, and the city's population has fallen rapidly. From 2002 to 2011, the population of Prokuplja was reduced by nearly six thousand, Kurzumli by nearly three thousand, Žitorajje and Blace by about two and a half thousand inhabitants. During that period, the Toplički district remained for about 17,000 inhabitants, or one of its municipalities. The constant decline in birth rate and growth in mortality rates is the main cause of this devastating demographic orientation. Three times less born than the dead and this relationship deteriorates year after year. Another reason is to express migration to developed municipalities, and in the last few years abroad, with a wave to the Nordic countries. In this town there are more and more of those who are extracurricular in schools, high school, almost everyone who attends high school has some colleges and college degrees, and therefore the Cup is unusual, and I have to mention that in particular. Those with high expertise are enrolling in a medical school and are leaving for Norway at the end of which they are employed and synonym for migration from this region is one commune or place, Stavanger in Norway, in which entire families of Prokupljana and Toplicana are moved, even in a joke said that in one of the hospitals one college was held in Serbian. The reality of Toplico County is also relaxed villages, rare, nursing households, abandoned fields and meadows and the fall of agricultural production. The industry died, of course. As many as 50 villages in the mining municipality are below 100 inhabitants, and 40 villages are less than 50 inhabitants. The situation in the municipality of Korcula is much worse. A number of villages have relaxed in the last few years. In this area, it is mostly made of low pensions and salaries in budgetary institutions. The spa has been forgotten for decades. It is well known to all of us, as far as the War I is concerned, because during World War I, the most capable part of the male population entered there and before the breach of the Thessaloniki Front was raised the Toplic uprising against Bulgarian terror, which was extinguished in blood. And, not to mention the data now as many people died there and how much it changed, among other things, a demographic picture of that neighborhood, and after World War II, Toplice was neglected, and that's one big truth, under the pretext that it was a Chetnik neighborhood, and that kind of relationship followed the permanent migration of the population. The state remembered Toplice only during the mobilization and tax collection in some ways, and it is an extremely rich part of Serbia, very suitable for the development of agriculture, especially livestock, fruit growing and winemaking. Three baths, Prolom, Lukovska and Kursumliska, were once elite spas. Today, unfortunately, the Kurchumli spa almost has no inhabitants. Rich thermal sources are not used, and hotel facilities are failing. They're not looking for investors, they're not looking for partners, they're not looking for anyone who's shown interest for decades, they're not exactly showing interest, they're interested, they're interested in initiative, but somehow we're not moving from a dead spot, which is a bad influence on the development of that end. It's important that this decade-long collapse is stopped as soon as possible, and this is one step and this injustice that was committed to the Cup, as the district seat, to finally correct itself. The development of Toplice is well left to the enthusiasm of individuals, and it is a district whose good share is based on Kosovo and Metohija. They have outstanding strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia. Banishment is the administrative, economic and cultural center of Toplička County, which we need to know. This generation must not allow itself to do anything in reviving the Warm End. It is of paramount importance that the Nis-Medara highway, which has affected the rapid development of this region. In addition, it is necessary to stimulate the development of agriculture and Banjska tourism. Giving the city's status will correct only one injustice, as I have already said in this area. The Republic of Serbia expects a big job in Toplička County, a job in reviving this strategic part of our country. I thank you for your attention. My colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, who are next on the list, will talk about the other proposed laws. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39078	Thank you, colleague Radenkovic. The word has a national emissary, Ana Stevanović. She's not present. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39079	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Justice and Reconciliation parties will support most of the laws proposed, and in the discussion I will refer to the National Councils Act and give some suggestions and objections. The Institute of National Councils is a very important step in political support of improving the rights of national communities and minority rights and freedoms. Therefore, the importance and promotion of this law, the preservation of this property and the protection of all those procedures, including election procedures for national councils, are essential, in order to ensure that this idea is properly and in line with the objective of realising it. I personally participated in the 2010 elections, and then indirectly, so in 2012, and therefore we have experience that makes us very careful, especially when it comes to the implementation of the electoral process itself. But before that, I would like to know who came to the idea of reducing the right to run for important functions in national councils, such as executive committees and the Presidency of national councils, without arguments, if we can invent what we have heard these days, depolitisation or protection of national councils from politicization. The very notion of politicization is very controversial. The most common use is demagogue, because it is political bodies, the bodies in which the parties are key carriers, and I don't know which political body is possible to protect against politicisation. So, what's the problem, after all, if we have politicization and why would we protect this body, which is neither an organ nor an executive function, from politicization and not protect the most state functions? That's why we offered an amendment that would solve this issue. As far as the voter list itself is concerned for national councils, the formation of the electoral list and the registration of the voter list are considered a questionable principle, because in this way those voters who are interested in these elections are placed in the position of a certain procedure, and when we have experience in the locality, where local authorities control political parties again, and we cannot protect it from politicisation, they are complicated for various reasons by the registration procedure itself, so that we have offered a solution which would include the list of data, but also the data from the general voter's list to be used to validly form that voter list. And it's a matter of protecting the election process itself. Our experience is that a number of manipulations were present in the election process itself, because the electoral procedure is being conducted by local administrations, which are again under the control of certain political parties, who have an interest in the election process and through these solutions we do not see a way to protect it. Therefore, it is necessary to protect this process and additional observers from all representatives of all lists, as well as other mechanisms, in order to avoid abuse. In 2010, for example, in 2010, we had the opportunity to prevent more than 20,000 already registered people from voting because of the manipulations with the voter list, because people from the address and various other abuses were outside the scope of exercising their voting rights. It is therefore necessary to take the necessary measures, which we have also proposed through the amendments, in order to be able to support this law. It also allows members of national communities in the diaspora to vote in these elections according to the model of parliamentary elections, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, consulates, diplomatic representations, through the regulation of registration procedures and about lists, but also for the procedure of these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39080	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39081	Thank you. Mr. Zukorlic, you have pointed to certain shortcomings compared to some earlier times. In 2010, there were indeed irregularities. In 2014, the amended law in the work relating to the conduct of the elections, and in 2014 the procedure itself was much better. So much better than in 2010, which doesn't mean it was ideal. As far as depoliticalism is concerned, it is important, above all, because national councils are not a form of political action, but rather a preservation of tradition, culture and language, and of course we are all aware that we are not talking about depoliticalism here, but a reduction of excessive politicization. So, it's the intensity and ministry that has been resolutely in charge of these amendments and additions to the law. I must also say that the initial position of our partners from the Council of Europe, therefore, from the Advisory Committee of the Council of Europe was much more rigid and much more rigorous, and in that part we certainly came out, I would say, to a large extent, to the clear argument of all representatives of national minorities. As for enrollment in a special polling list, it is performed exclusively on a personal request, and the change in data and erasure will certainly be on a personal request and on official duty, given that we have, of course, the intention and we will do so to improve, practically, and this special polling list, to update it and connect it to the unique electoral list, which has not been the case so far. As for what you've been saying, and it's about diaspora and using their right to plead in the elections, I think it's primarily the subject of electoral legislation that recognises that possibility for, of course, parliamentary and other elections. As for the elections for national councils, of course, we will look at all your amendments with a lot of attention, see what opportunities are, and not to violate the legal framework, but I also think that it will be a basic focus, not only on the Bosniak national minority, but on all national minorities, that the focus and the Ministry and the Government of Serbia are primarily on eliminating any possibility of abuse from the start of the procedure, so when we say since the launch, I am speaking from enrollmenting in the special voter list, by updating this special electoral list, to holding elections for the national councils of that election day. We will certainly co-operate in this field, we are already signing an agreement with RIK today, since 15.00 hours we have a presentation of exactly the presentation of a special electoral list with a unique electoral list and at this presentation are invited, of course, and all MPs, especially MPs who are members of national minorities. I hope we'll be able to come up with a complementary, or a least common denominator at this current moment, and with regard to those requests that you made through amendments to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39082	I thank Minister Ruzic. The People's Messenger Tomislav Zigmanov has the word. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39083	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I don't think the government's efforts are questionable when it comes to improving the legal position of national minorities in Serbia and that for every praise, what appears to be the plan for certain problems, when it comes to the social situation, when it comes to achieving the rights and interests of members of national minorities in Serbia to improve. What I think needs to be regained, the truth is a relatively small number of MPs have spoken of these laws. There's been a lot of noise by representatives of national minorities, with certain criticisms. You should say the next one. Legal changes concerning the Bill on Human and Minority Rights of Members of National Minorities and the National Councils of National Minorities took place without a clear platform in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the integration of members of national minorities into Serbian society. We still don't know what the basics of this policy are, whether it's a policy of segregation multiculturalism, whether we want Serbia as a country where members of national minorities will be integral parts of all decision-making processes, all segments of society or something else. Unfortunately, this kind of policy cannot be read from what has been on the scene so far. On the other hand, it was to be expected that, whether or not the issue of amending the Constitution will be resolved, in particular when it comes to Article 1, where, as we know, we have one rather unorthodox exclusive provision of Serbia as a state of the Serbian people and its citizens. Of course, it was expected that certain standards that exist in contemporary international documents dealing with the issue of minority rights, particularly the principle of democratic participation, would be more integrated by the participation of minority president in decision-making processes. We've already talked about the inclusion. There were certain deficits. Representatives of only national major national minorities were involved in the process of drawing up these documents. Representatives of the political parties of national minorities have never been invited, even when it comes to public debates, to meetings, except for what was like a public call on the site. When it comes to transparency, the part relating to objections, the proposals of the representatives interested in amending the law, they could never see what their destiny was, why they were rejected, how they were not accepted etc., etc. In this regard, it can be said that it was in a formal procedural sense and certain deficits when it comes to the segment. Finally, but no less important and some concrete remarks that will be the reason why I will, in fact, deny the support of these legal solutions. First, so far an unprecedented ban on political entities to act on certain duties. We have no public position in Serbia except for the judicial work of the government, which explicitly prohibits, when it comes to this segment, the participation of representatives of political parties, their top officials to participate in this. I remind you that the political parties of national minorities are founded to fight for the protection of interest and rights and members of the same ways, and because of these legal solutions, they are, as I would say, denied the strongest chalk of their existence in some way. We have deficits when it comes to rights. By the way, you know it's a previous law, i.e. Before these changes, the law allowed the National Greater National Minorities to declare institutions in culture and education of national importance to their community. Now that right is being denied and only a proposal is being sought. It is also the same when it comes to the distribution of funds by those who are bodies of local self-government when it comes to funds intended for cultural and other content of national minorities. So far, the National Council has been making proposals for the same, and now that the right to give an opinion is legally less binding. It is also, but not less important, to exclude representatives of the National Major Minorities and the minority in general from the decision-making process when it comes to the allocation of funds from the National Minorities Budget Fund. I think it is a message that is not good because the principle of democratic participation of national minorities in itself implies that you are involved in every opportunity that concerns you directly, that you can make decisions. Experiences in other countries suggest that the largest share of the funds, the largest number of cases includes minority representatives. In the end, I will only say that there are certain restrictions, the right to self-government in Article 122. Your ministry can suspend any decision, an individual act of the National Council, which does not have the right to judicial protection. The court is excluded from this procedure. That's where we see a certain kind of ethics. In article 133, I'm afraid a flat-rate estimate has been made that 50% of the funds should be so-called. institutional costs, and 50% of the funds should be allocated to specific projects. It can't be worth it to every national community. Not every community has equal numbers, territorial dispersion, institutional development, etc. In the end, the criminal provisions are very clear and expressive, which of course should not be too much undermining criticism. But when it comes to other bodies that are obliged to provide assumptions for the exercise of the rights of national minorities, say what if local self-government does not request an opinion, and there have been such cases, from the National Council for National Minorities for the distribution of funds? In those cases, we don't have any kind of criminal measure. In that sense, for these reasons, I say once again, I will be able to deny the support of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39084	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39085	Thank you. I'd just say there's no discrimination in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39086	Just a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39087	Article 107. That all national communities are the same, that they are equal, that the SNS as the leading party in its ranks has most national minorities. I'm a rebel, and I'm proud to be a member of the SNS. There is no assimilation regarding the SNS to us Bunjevci and to all other national minorities. The fact is that there is an assimilation of one national minority over another in Serbia. It is thought of the Bunjevac National Minority, which has been assimilated by another national minority, because the other national minority is trying to change our customs, our music, our culture and make them their customs. So, SNS as such, as it should be, will surely support national minorities, and so means both Bunjevacka and all other national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39088	My colleague Babic, I don't think that as chairman and in one way, I hurt the member you listed, Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39089	Thank you. This is just one example of criticism, which are, of course, legitimate about incompatibility whether it was wise to rule out, or to give exclusiveness to political parties, minority political parties, I am not talking about national councils now, and to exclude majority parties that have members of national minorities in their bodies. This is the best proof that we've had one correct approach. As for the very constructive criticisms, I must say that the procedure involved the interested public, that we had eight round tables, that we had public calls. I don't know how much more official it's possible to invite everyone interested to take part if not on the Ministry's website that is truly in charge of these laws. So it's just a matter of interest. If we had eight round tables, it speaks enough of the fact that there were many opportunities and opportunities to take part and that all criticisms that are certainly welcome and that are largely incorporated into these legal proposals are heard. Of course, civil society organisations, through the government mechanism, therefore, the Civil Society Offices, also made calls and we also had public calls on local media that have programmes in the languages of national minorities. The process was open, participatoryly implemented in a very clear framework, therefore, in line with international standards, strategic documents, laws and the Constitution of Serbia. There is no more natural and clearer framework for the preparation of one law. If I have to repeat, therefore, round tables were held both in Novi Sad and in Subotica, both in Belgrade and in Bujanovac and Petrovac on Mlava and in Novi Pazar and in other cities. As far as funding for national councils is concerned, the proposal to split the costs 50% for fixed costs, and 50% for the work for which national councils exist, is something that, in our opinion, has been measured, because we have had cases that practically in some national councils 100% of the funds received, I recall, with three levels of government, therefore, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina budget and the budget of the unit of local self-government, that they were spent in 100% of the impact on salaries. What was also part of this framework, it is a alignment with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014, so that the Constitution as the highest legal act of our country really obliges us when we write laws, to take account of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, of course, to incorporate it in legislative proposals. Anyway, every criticism is welcome. I'm sorry we haven't had the chance to hear it before. We'll see if there's anything else we can do if there's any amendments on your side. As far as participation is concerned, it is an object, as I said yesterday, and I mean today, other, or electoral laws. Of course, it is legitimate and justified and it is fact that you also refer to a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, but it is simply not the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39090	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39091	The respected chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government at the moment are necessary and I believe that it will contribute to the reform of the entire area and improve this area we are discussing. Local self-government must not be viewed as just one theoretical concept. It is a practical system that should contribute to the improvement and better quality of life in local environments. That is why changes and additions of laws are important, which allow citizens to be directly involved in creating local investment budgets. They will thus have the opportunity to participate more in making decisions directly related to them and will be able to propose and express their views regarding whether something will be built in a specific part of the city, where certain adjustments will be made and what will be the priorities. All proposed changes are in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It contains certain minimums that must be met. One of the standards is to involve citizens in public decision-making at local level, and one is the administration that is efficient and close to citizens. One of the amendments to the law right now refers to the possibility of a civil initiative being launched. I think these amendments to the law will help make it more clear how many signatures are needed to launch the citizens' initiative, and that's now 5%, so there won't be any different interpretations, as it used to be. This strengthens the role of citizens, clearly specify the conditions and give greater chances of the success of the citizens' initiative. The proposed amendments and additions to the law also define the number of local officials, i.e. the number of council members and assistants of the president of municipalities and mayors. So now the number of local officials will be proportional to the number of local self-government residents. I think the good proposals that will have positive effects on the work of the board and will put the committees in a better position than this has been the case so far. First, it is the setting of a minimum time limit, a 24-hour time limit for convening the city’s congregation or congregation, and thus it will prevent possible abuses and the committees will get extra time to prepare themselves better for these calls. Secondly, the proposed municipal service additions will be obliged to provide the committees with all the necessary information they need to improve their work. That way they'll have better conditions to function. When we talk about local self-government and its competences, we always think about the decentralisation that is always brought about with regard to democracy, and decentralisation is actually a transfer of competence from the central authorities to the lower authorities. Perhaps we should now consider changing the structure of jurisdiction when talking about the level of administrative districts and the level of municipalities, or their relationship. The impression is that Serbia's administrative districts now lack real power and cannot influence local communities' management. Perhaps in the future we should pursue a single-stage system of local self-government or possibly a two-stage system in which jurisdiction would be redistributed when we talk about administrative districts or municipalities. I'll give you an example from England. This is a good example, for example, where there is a two-stage system of local authorities and where the areas of strategic planning, social education services, fire services are within the jurisdiction of a higher level of local self-government, or local authorities, and smaller strategic issues are within the jurisdiction of a lower level of local authorities. Local self-government is closest to citizens and local self-government feels the best of both their needs and their problems. It therefore takes a very important place in the social political framework in developed European countries. For example, in Sweden, there is a two-stage local government that involves districts and municipalities, but there is a strong system of local self-government, and the importance and strength of this local self-government system is seen as even 80% of the total number of public sector employees working in local self-government. I'm also going to say something about the proposed amendments and additions to the Book of Origin Act. I expect that the introduction of a register of books will solve the problems that citizens faced on a daily basis, not only for years, but for decades back, where they had problems when they were due to obtain a copy from the birth certificate without living in a place where they were born or in another country, without talking about the problems they had displaced from Kosovo and Metohija and where birth certificates could be obtained only in several Serbian cities. I think it'll be settled now. Finally, I would say that MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, in addition to the proposed amendments and additions to the law, will vote in favour of a proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, for Jorgovanka Tabakovic. I think the results of the previous period recommend it for that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39092	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39093	You should also include in this papazian agenda a bill on ratification of the bat protection agreement, so that it would be a complete atmosphere. You wanted to, I suppose, put on the agenda a motion for reelection of governors only on the 11th point to draw the attention of the MPs to deal with this make-up from the bill represented here by Minister Ruzic, because there are no fundamental changes here, but when we discuss the amendments, we will. Today, we have a theme, i.e. in principle, of the topic, which is a proposal for a re-election of Yorvanka Tabaković as governor of the National Bank. We have heard of its moral character and its work enough, it is not necessary to repeat it, but it is obvious that Jorgovanka is prone to corruption and therefore it can be concluded that this is the reason why it actually performs its function in the interests of foreign commercial banks, not in the interests of Serbian citizens. We recall that Veroljub Dugalic, who is the secretary of this, I don't know, the association of banks publicly in the media, said directly to the camera that bankers in certain banks in Serbia do not think that they respect the decisions of the courts in Serbia that were made at the request, i.e. by the citizens who sued the banks because they were illegally accounting for the processing of loans and the monitoring of loans. Of course, the National Bank and Jorgenka Tabakovic did not even run on the subject, which is truly amazing that the National Bank does not react when someone representing commercial banks has said something that is a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine what the profits of these banks are from these fees, i.e. from the fees for the processing of loans. In 2016, for example, 36 billion dinars were earned by the bank in Serbia, and as much as it is real, the fact is that in the same period, in the name of interest, the bank earned 124 billion. So this is just amazing, and I guess it only happens in the state of Serbia, thanks primarily to the governor of the National Bank, so far, and as it may be the future. Just because of her unconscious work, irresponsibleness and ignorance, we today have news in the media that banks sell, say, an apartment for 13,000 euros at Vrakar. That's what she was supposed to talk about the other day when she was here, when she was only bragging about how she was the most beautiful and wisest, and she didn't say a word from the area she was in charge of. She did not say, say, that the state of finance in the state of Serbia is in the balance sheets of banks run by Jorgovanka Tabakovic, that at the end of 2007, 4.7 billion financial resources are available for sale, and the bank has no one to place them because it is economically incompetent, because it gives borrowings and because citizens are burned to take credit and today only those who have to do so, and that I am not talking about debts when it comes to payment cards, when it comes to a negative, etc. This amount was 2.4 billion at the end of 2013, and at the end of 2014, slightly more than three billion euros. The amount of funds is best shown by the fact that the total action capital of 29 banks is at the end of 2017, of course banks in which foreigners own more than 88%, 3.4 billion euros, and the total capital with reserves and unallocated gains of 5.6 billion euros, which means 83% of the total own capital of all banks is frozen in funds that have no one to place. We're told completely different stories here. Flowers bloom in Serbia. The only thing I don't know is how the people living in Serbia don't notice. The Governor of the National Bank has until 30 June to publish an annual report on the operation of the National Bank for 2017 and it would be at least correct if you had postponed this debate until that deadline, so let's see, let's talk about this annual report, but since there is no such thing, here's the 2016 Report. The National Bank had its own capital of 3.1 billion euros and total liabilities of 8.3 billion euros. So in its sources, sources of the National Bank, capital funds represent only 27.5%. Why is that? Because Serbia is over-indebted and has become the fundier of the most developed countries and the buyer of their securities. That's the policy you represent here as the most successful and Jordanian as the most successful governor in the world and the nearest environment. Why, for example, has the National Bank never taken a step towards lending to farmers in Serbia, peasants? Why do other banks in the world do that? You, you know, everything you don't want to do here you say that there's an EU, there some officials don't give it to you, they don't give it to you, and in their countries they do what's in the interest of their citizens. You all know well that even at DOS time, agricultural production has been completely destroyed, I mean food production and that what remains is the primary production of which is difficult to live, from the production of wheat, raspberries where every year raspberries have to be bled, to determine what the price is, etc. That's why the governor was supposed to do something, say, that was recently in France, not to ban banks from lending, to freely place their funds, but that bank that gives the farm credit to get some funding from the National Bank. Of course, it would be replaced where loans for non-profitable jobs are given, so the bank would still win. There is one small question: the annual NBS balance for 2016 shows that there are 82.5 billion dinars in the National Bank or 668 million in gold. The question to which would be nice to be answered by Jorgenka Tabakovic, but he will not – are these 15 tons of gold in the National Bank or in Basel? They say, in Basel. Also, the question – is it written annually and is that why a loan is being made? Serious questions, which apparently no one wants to answer because you have drawn up -- Jordanka will be the governor in the next term, and what is connected to a series of corruption affairs, which works for banks and not for citizens, which has become enormously rich, much more than what her regular salary, which is otherwise incredible for more than half a million dinars, but to remind us that EBRD Vice-President Allen Piu recently said that the EBRD has started negotiations with Serbia's strength on privatisation of "Commerial Bank". Of course, we are also talking about the sale of the Danube Insurance, so we will be left without that market, but when it comes to the Commercial Bank, we ask - is it true that former Finance Minister Lazar Krstic over IPC London has ensured that his 25% ownership in the actions of the Commercial Bank is worth 12 times more in the case of sales? Since it is obviously a variety of suspicious business, and because one day it must go to prison, we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia – did they replace Meha Omerovic, who should also go to prison because he was a thief, because he was stealing at the Frankfurt airport from the president's office, imagine, the Commission for the Control of Penalty? The irony of fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39094	Thank you. Replica, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39095	I thank the chairman. We've heard a lot, and there's no evidence of that. The easiest thing to do is to glue certain labels to people who work, but the facts say that in 2012, we had 128 credit lines with interest rates of 8.3% of commercial ones in charge of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which went through the NBS, so that the public debt, which we are constantly talking about, which was 15 billion, actually referred to certain credit lines that were stored somewhere under the radar, to say the economists, through those NBS reports. It should be realistic then and say that the governor of the NBS has been dealing with problems relating to the loans of the Republic of Serbia since 2012 not only the loans hidden from those who ruled until 2012 and those today who want to attack the Governor personally on some of the imaginary affairs, but in fact want to cover all those who ruled until 2012 and say that it was actually the right policy, and we saw how the citizens assessed it when they defined themselves as SNS in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39096	Thank you. Replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39097	The colleague obviously did not listen, if she did, she would have noticed that I mentioned what was happening by 2012, when I mentioned to Mrs. Jorgenko Tabaković that they should have provided commercial banks with loans to farmers precisely because they had completely destroyed the entire production, the food industry and not only the food industry, but the whole. We've never abolized the dosmania. On the contrary, we always publicly say that they were the worst, that you are very bad, but they are worse for shades than you. As for what Jorgenka Tabakovic had been dealing with since 2012, she has been dealing with the major problems she has brought to the public, which is that she is working so hard that she has no time to spend half a million dinars she receives a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39098	Comrade Tomic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39099	Last week we had the opportunity to hear about the results of the NBS and all the questions that were directly referred to were indeed related to the work of the NBS and to what the governor handled as a serious and responsible person. All insults of a personal nature should simply not be the subject of this debate here, nor will we allow at all to discuss the results of both the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in general the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because if you want to be honest, the loans concerned salaries and pensions paid by the previous government by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39100	Radeta colleagues, I'll give you a replica, but I'm asking you to continue on the agenda after that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39101	Of course, I don't mind if we continue, but last week we heard it, and now that the salary of the governor of the NBS is mentioned, that we're touching someone, we're insulting privately. Excuse me, Governor NB's salary is not a private matter, and the fact is that the salary of Jorgenka Tabakovic, currently governor, is about 551 thousand, but better sounds, more than half a million dinars and citizens need to know that. This should be known by millions of people in Serbia who are making guaranteed personal income for a guaranteed salary of 210 euros. That's what people need to know that her salary is more than 20 salaries for any citizen of those millions who work for that minimum wager. Citizens should know that the salary of Jorgenka Tabakovic is higher than the total salary of the president of the state, the Prime Minister, one minister, one MP. 150 grand more than that is her salary. I'm sorry, it's not a private matter, it's a very public matter and it's something the people need to know. You chose it, you will choose it again. It's your responsibility. You boast as much as you want and for whom the citizens voted, etc. You will also boast about who you will vote for, but it is your responsibility and it is not a private matter, but it is a very public matter and a matter, above all, of the assembly majority who will vote for Yorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39102	Thank you. Comrade Tomic, I'll give you a replica, but please yes I hope co-worker Tomic doesn't cause any further replication. [[The Faith of Radeta: What have I caused the replica?]] We'll listen to a colleague and then we'll listen. Here's my colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39103	The whole debate came down to the essence of Governor NBS' salary. It was the same as until 2012 and was defined by laws and regulations. If we want to change something about it, it is the congregation that will eventually change it. You know what, by law, there's a right of an MP who's retired to also have an MP's salary, so when you put on the scale and measure the responsibility of the governor of the NB, and when you put the opportunities of pensioners who receive both the pension and the salary of the MPs, then they'll just always threaten where there's greater responsibility. Whether it was a Yorgovanka or anyone else, it's normal for every country to have governor NB's salary defined by regulations and always above the rank of MPs. As far as the Prime Minister and the President's salary are concerned, of course they're not in compliance with all the receipts' nomenclature and we need to talk about it here and we need to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39104	Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39105	I expected you, colleague Milicevic, to interrupt your colleague when she spoke about the responsibility of the governor of the National Bank, and in that context, as I understand it, I declared the MPs irresponsible, because she said that the governor and the responsibility of the MP cannot be compared. Is it possible that someone who is still part of the ruling majority would have such an opinion of the MPs? People, this is where the laws are passed, this is where the governor is elected, this is where many important things are done. As anyone does, let someone else evaluate and evaluate them anyway. Exactly, the salary of Jorgovanka Tabakovic, which our colleague says is the basis of all our discussions, and as it is, because, you know, to be popular, so that everyone will welcome her, so that everyone forgets that she has frozen herself, so that sometimes she will freeze, that Jorgenka Tabakovic said that Šoškić's salary is very high, that she will cut her salary drastically, so that she will remain part of what she gives for humanitarian purposes. So then she fooled the public, then, and that must be the basis for every debate. I'm sorry they don't like to hear it from their colleagues, but maybe some of them wanted to be governors, too. I remember some debates as long as Jorgenka was a member of the SRS, but, behold, she fell to Yorgovanka, and with that function fell her salary of more than half a million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39106	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39107	Thank you, Chairman. The Republic of Serbia has defined itself as strategically improving the institutional and legislative framework in the fields of human and minority rights through the opening of the negotiating chapter 23, and in addition to these are laws that are on the agenda today, which is the law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. I would like to commend the Ministry's work and say that before the proposed laws enter the feast, there have been many public stands, round tables, which is very positive, and direct participants in those stands have just been representatives of national minorities and national councils. I took part in some of those stands alone. It is also very positive that the ministry has accepted many proposals and suggestions from representatives of national councils and national minorities. I am convinced that the vast majority of my fellow Members will positively assess these proposed laws. There will probably be some who will criticise these laws, but, you know, it's hard to make a suit that suits everyone. In these proposed laws, I think that all the advantages have been seen and that they will also correspond to minority communities, which are numerous and which number more than 200,000 members of national minorities, and also national minorities that have a smaller number, 15, 16 or even less, living in the territory of our country of Serbia. In my brief presentation, I would like to point out the need to pass these laws, as this guarantees all the rights of members of national minorities as equal citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is a multinational community where, apart from the majority Serb population, which accounts for 83% of the population, there are 21 ethnic communities, which number more than 2,000 members. Members of minority communities are the most represented in Vojvodina, there are Hungarians, Slovaks, Bunjevci and Russia, while in southern and eastern Serbia the most Roma live, while Bosniaks live in Šumadija and western Serbia. National councils are organisations entrusted with certain public powers by law, to participate in decision-making or to decide independently on specific issues in the fields of culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, in order to achieve the collective rights of the national minority in self-government in the areas already mentioned. Given that the existing law establishes the obligation to conduct regular elections for members of national councils, which are to be held in 2018, it is necessary to implement this law in an urgent manner, in order to enable the conduct of elections and the establishment of national councils. Voting these proposed laws, members of national minorities will still be able to cultivate their tradition, culture and language, thus completing Serbia's image as multinational communities. In voting day, SNS MPs will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39108	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. He's not there. First of all, honourable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39109	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. I would say first that the AP Vojvodina covers 27.9% of Serbia's territory, is administratively divided into 45 municipalities and seven administrative districts. The highest legal act by the AP is the province's statute above which normal is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The most legislative body is the Assembly of 120 MPs. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is a member of the Council of the European region, at the EU parliament. In Vojvodina, it lives, alongside Serbs and 25 national or ethnic communities, which account for about 35% of the Vojvodina population. According to the latest census, the majority of Serbs are 65%, followed by Hungarians with 14.28%, Slovaks 2.79, Croats with 2.78, Montenegrins 1.75. To our great joy, we rebels cross 1%. In Vojvodina, there are six languages in official use using their letters and a Serbian Cyrillic letter with the possibility of using a Latin letter, then Hungarian, Slovak, Croatian and Romanian Cyrillic. On November 25th, 918, Vojvodina united with Serbia, the Grand Constitutional Assembly in Novi Sad. There were 757 delegates in the Assembly, 84 of whom were Bunjevac, six of whom were women. This year will be the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Vojvodina's accession to Serbia, and the sponsor of the event is our President Aleksandar Vukic. The rebels are the native and dominant homeland of only this of our Serbia, because we have no other countries. Apart from the Vojvodina's national minority living in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is an ethnically multinational community. The 2011 census showed that there are 21 ethnic communities in Serbia, with over 2,000 members. With its constitution and a series of laws, the Republic of Serbia has arranged a way of achieving constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms of members of national minorities. In addition to the rights guaranteed to all citizens, the Constitution guarantees national minorities additional individual or collective rights. Individual rights shall be exercised individually and collectively in the community with another, in accordance with the Constitution, law and international agreements. By way of collective rights, members of national minorities, directly or through their representatives, participate in the decision-making process or decide themselves on certain issues related to their culture, education, notification and official use of language and letters in accordance with the law. Using their right, members of the 21st national minority, they have established their national council. Here are first of all: the Bundes, Bulgarians, Bosniaks, Hungarians, Roma, Russian, Slovaks, Czechs, etc. and thus national councils are involved in the process of co-operation with the competent state authorities. National minorities are guaranteed equality before the law and equal legal protection. Accordingly, any discrimination is prohibited because of the membership of one of the national minorities. They have the same right as other citizens of the Republic of Serbia to participate in governance in public functions, as well as to enter public functions. Also, any discrimination shall be prohibited either indirectly, or directly on any basis, and particularly on the basis of race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or any other belief, property, culture, language, as well as mental or physical disability. In any case, free thoughts and beliefs are guaranteed. It is also forbidden to provoke racial, national, religious hatred and impatience. Violent simulation of members of the national minority has been banned, as well as artificially induced changes in the national composition of the population in areas where members of some national minorities have lived for a long time and where they are largely present. In the area of education, culture and information, Serbia encourages a spirit of tolerance and an intercultural dialogue with the taking of very effective measures to improve mutual respect, understanding and co-operation between all citizens living in its territory regardless of ethnic, cultural, linguistic or religious identity. All these facts are included in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Machines, contained in Articles 14 of Articles 75 to 81 and Article 97 of Rule 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees national minorities the preservation of full equality and preservation of their identity. As regards textbooks written in the letter and language of the national minority, it should be said that these are mostly low-cost textbooks, where production costs or printing costs as well as dependent costs are higher than the retail price of the same. Such a textbook shall only be issued in the case of educational-examination work being carried out in the language and letter of the national minority. The programme of textbooks in the language and letter of the national minority, as well as textbooks for the subject of general interest for the national minority on the proposal of the Institute and the National Council of National Minorities, and after obtaining an opinion from the National Educational Council, however, the minister brings it. In order for national minorities to even be able to retain and demand the possibility to issue a textbook in their language and letter, they must first standardise their language. Thus, the Bunjevac National Minority, after the adoption, that is, the completion of the work on the standardisation of the Bunjevac language, has reached the position of writing and printing textbooks for primary school students studying the subject of the rebel speech, with elements of national culture. For us Bunjevci, the standard is something that we have prescribed through the dictionary, spelling and grammar manual, in which and how we Bunjevci write today in the 21st century, in our media, books and literature. Basically, the way we Bunjevci address the current government and state bodies. The standards themselves constitute a condition relating to content, pedagogical psychological requirements, didactic and methodical processing, as well as language requirements and the design of graphic, visual and technical equipment of textbooks. For 15 years it took it to declare the standard of rebel language. The manual for grammar, spelling and dictionary should be out of the press by the end of this year. In this first edition of the dictionary are unfortunately the words of the Somborian rebels. To prepare, write and print this extremely important document for us Bunjevce, it took several years of hard field work, research by monitoring the most common language phenomena, primarily the ike, which in the area of Somboro and Subotica is well preserved in terms of using verbic and name extensions, as well as how to use the crashes. Namely, the native language is the cornerstone of every national minority, and so is our Bunjevaca, in order to preserve the national identity of a minority. Throughout the history of the Bunjevs, they have national self-identified themselves so that we have our language, speech, and recognizable dialect. The rebels came to this space 330 years ago, written, and the first book in the rebelry was printed in Rome in the early 17th century. We try, because we have our own native language, we will succeed, because we want to come to the highest linguistic level, so that we rebels will take care of our own language and constantly promote it. For many years, an assimilation and opposition of the Bunjevac as a national minority has been carried out. The peak of the assimilation and dispute took place in 1945, when the Bunjevci decree forbidd them to plead as Bunjevci. All schools that existed in the rebel language were also abolished. We have applied to the competent services in the province for the abolition of this decree, and in this way we want to put our, or our national community in an equal position with other communities. Now we have a language, as a kind of identification, which is very important and important for us rebels. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, I would say that the Bunjevs have been actively involved in the work of making these amendments and supplementing the law. Even the citizens' association "Bunjevacko kolo" from Somboro, as the only rebel institution other than the national council, participated in one of the round tables that was in the Parliament Club in Belgrade, where it expressed its views on certain members related to the amendment and addition of the National Councils Act. Article 7a lists who can't be a member of the National Council. It is unclear whether all this applies to the parties of national minorities or whether the officials of these parties are excluded from these cases? We also believe that it is not justified that the law sets out specifics, and I quote: "A member of the National Council cannot be a member of the governing bodies, political parties, such as the president, the presidency, the executive board and the like." This word at the end of the quote – and so on, certainly opens up the possibility of different manipulations. Then, a member of the National Council shall not be a official, appointed person or manager in the authority of the State Administration, the regional authority of the administration or body of a unit of local self-government which decides within the limits of its competence on matters concerning the work of the national councils. There is no clear limit between meaning and limitations. We have suggested that such restrictions in Article 7a should not exist, and we have explained that with the following facts. The exemption of political officials, officials and executives in national councils is even a constitutional matter of guaranteeing certain rights to individual persons. The fact that certain individuals are involved in professional politics must not exclude these people from the work of national councils. On the contrary, we think it is desirable to involve experienced people in politics in the work of the same. The fact that national councils are not concerned with politics, so politicians are not needed, national advice does not deal with the design of buildings, nor agriculture, law, health care, and yet it is comprised of engineers and doctors and lawyers and experts of different profiles. On the contrary, we consider it desirable that officials, socio-politically active persons of all profiles, be involved in the work of national councils. We even find it extremely important for the province's MPs and republican MPs to have the opportunity to be members of national councils, as this would represent an extremely important link in achieving the legislative framework for the development of general civil rights, as well as the rights of national minorities. As part of the bill, the local self-government ministry accepted the observed changes, so now Article 7a has become acceptable to all national minorities. As regards Article 7b, we believe that this article should state: “A member of the National Council cannot be a person employed in an institution, company and any legal person whose founder is the National Council, who is a direct beneficiary of the National Council’s resources and who performs any work on behalf of the National Council and for the National Council. “ This applies to members of the family of members of the National Council, as defined by the members of the laws governing conflict of interest. This kind of manipulation is present, as far as we've seen, more or less in all national councils. We are witnessing that members of the National Council are at the same time MPs in institutions and institutions whose co-founders are just national councils. Thus, in the last meeting of the Bunjeva National Council, we have a situation that members of the National Council, including members of the Executive Board, are also directors of institutions financed directly from the National Council's resources, that individual legal persons whose founders of the National Council have become members of the National Council in the meantime by the decision of the National Council of the Institutions of the importance of national minorities, and their owners are members of the Council at the same time, so they have created conditions for the same persons to decide to make their own allocations to national minorities. This certainly represents a classic example of conflict of interest, where children would understand the essence of the very meaning of conflict of interest. The entire families are employees of such institutions, and the nationality at birth has become a very lucrative profession that eventually becomes its own goal, while at the same time estrangement from the national being and from the basic underlying objectives. We can say that Article 7b is also in the cross-section with Article 38, as the draft law provides for 50% of the funds obtained for fixed costs and regular work, and is not defined and a limited number of permanent employees in national councils. So it's not clearly defined whether all members of the National Council can be employed in the same or not, and if not, how many of them can? As regards Article 10, in paragraph 1, where point 16 is added, which speaks of the allocation of funds allocated to national councils for the work of institutions, associations and foundations, in accordance with their work programmes, according to the aforementioned distribution of the Bunjevac National Council, has forgotten to direct part of the funds intended for these purposes to the Association of Citizens of the Bunjevačka Colo from Somboro, so that in the course of 2017, the Bunjevačka Colo received nothing in the allocation of funds, as well as many other rebel associations and institutions. In 2017, and earlier years, the National Council of the Bunjevac National Minority spent more than 80% of the budget-defined funds for these purposes, and can be established to question the purpose of the existence of the National Council in such conditions. Turns out the National Council exists for itself. That is why, in the next elections for national councils, due in autumn, parties of the former regime should no longer be allowed to lead most of the national councils again, as well as the Bunjevac National Council. In voting day, the SNS will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39110	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39111	Thank you. In my presentation, I will refer to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's proposal to elect Jorgenka Tabakovic as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. To remind me, in 2013, Sasa Radulovic was the minister of economy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. He proposed amendments to the law and many reforms, and if they were adopted today, we would certainly not have chosen Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the NBS. Two weeks ago in this assembly, we had the inauguration of Mr. Cynthia Malo for the finance minister and, despite being discussed here, many of the corruption affairs that followed him, I brought out some 15, 16 affairs that accompanied him, three days after his inauguration here in the Assembly a set of financial laws were discussed, five of which were proposed by the National Bank of Serbia. The adoption of these laws has wide opened the door for the domination of large capital and banking lobbys, which speedily introduces Serbia into the country's cheap labour force. We are becoming more and more the distant periphery of Europe. We've become a country that hastily run away from. Up until a year ago, two people from the country were leaving the best among us, the most professional young, competent experts who were wanted on the human market in Europe and beyond. But lately, we've been witnessing that anyone who has any chance of finding a better perspective than there is here in this country. Does the current government know how many Serbian citizens are currently staying outside their country? He knows for sure, but we can't get to that information. The election of Jorgvanka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia will certainly increase citizens' dissatisfaction and boost the trend. In such a way, by selecting such personnel, the government is increasingly alienated from citizens and not astounding protests and dissatisfactions that we see on our streets these days, and we are sure that this is not only because of fuel, but many other factors that build up the dissatisfaction of citizens, among whom there is certainly a proposal for such personnel that are not worthy of the function to which they are proposed. That's why, it's been a lot of energy against a proposal like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39112	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39113	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, co-workers and colleagues, something on the proposal for a bill confirming the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The objective of the adoption of the European Charter of Local Self-Government is to preserve and improve the system of local self-government, i.e. to accept modern solutions that have occurred in this area in all developed democratic countries of Europe, which primarily refer to the very principles of democratisation and decentralisation of government. What is important, this Additional Protocol reflects and respects exactly the diversity of the methods of participation and procedures established in national, regional and local legislation, while covering the right to participate primarily in public life at local level, then the right to inform by local authorities, as well as the obligations of local authorities to enable the exercise of these rights. As regards the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 68 states that citizens propose to the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Units, i.e. acts to address a particular issue from the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, the change of statutes or other acts and the calling of a referendum, in accordance with the law and the statutes. The same article states that the committee responsible, as you have stated here, decides the local self-government assembly according to the citizens' proposal to conduct the public debate procedure. This means that the statutes of units of local self-government and city municipalities, regardless of what it says there, or not left behind, may be in accordance with the statutes of the cities, above all I mean Nis, because I come from Nis, that some of the city municipalities did not comply with their statutes as the city ordered them. If the establishment of a competent board becomes a unit of local self-government, there should also be obligations and units, i.e. urban municipalities, which may well be mentioned in the communication itself with them. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia also believes that citizens' presence at the local self-government assembly should be foreseen, which through the Code of Good Practice for Citizens' Participation in the decision-making process was adopted by the Council of Europe as early as 2009, in terms of defining the general principles, instruments and mechanisms for active participation of the interested public. We propose to local self-government the introduction of the term so-called. a council watch in which citizens could speak to the committees before each session of the local self-government assembly. For example, each committee group would delegate one committee member, and it would be held in a local self - administration meeting room. In order for citizens or representatives of civil initiatives to take advantage of this possibility, we need to institutionalise this mechanism through a new assembly body, which, for example, would be called the Committee on Civil Initiatives. Citizens and representatives of groups of citizens would explain their questions to the committees during a certain period of time or teach them in writing. This would be much more effective than the answers, waiting for classical committee issues and initiatives. Also, the SDPS advocates, in addition to the referendum activities, to introduce a commitment so-called. public polls, through which local self-government authorities would consult citizens on issues of their jurisdiction, means, not only when it comes to budgets or some infrastructure capital investment. A public poll would be conducted once a month by local offices through pre-prepared questionnaires, with exactly those topics. In voting day, the SDPS will support a set of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39114	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, time obliges me to, unfortunately, given the large number of points that have been reunited in a united debate, I am talking in a few minutes about two key things that unfortunately unite what has been the essence of this government for six years, which is that there is no reason and that there is no constitution and that there is no law that SNS is not more important than their sole and exclusive goal, which is that, through will, all power is taken into their own hands by law. Why am I saying this? I'm going to be very specific and I'm going to argue that with two laws. The first is the Law on Local Self-Government, Mr. Minister, and all the laws that have come were the opportunity not only to talk about improving the legislative framework, but to talk about how citizens live today in our local self-government and what is the government's obligation, if you want us MPs, to make amendments to the bill make their function, or their right, and I remind you that in a member of the Constitution it states that the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to local self-government. However, this state government, or this government of the SNS, is not limited by either the Constitution or the law, because where the Constitution for SNS ends, some Zelja appears. We have seen today from the MPs of the SNS that they are not only interested in the topic of how citizens in municipalities and cities live, but about the laws that colleagues have now talked about, about national minorities, about protecting the rights of national minorities, about national councils of national minorities. All this is not important for the SNS, it is important to talk about the president of one of the six municipalities they have not brought down so far, it is important that the Paracino municipality be something that SNS will take apart and bring down. We have seen amazing things, that the President of the Republic of Serbia has been given the word eight times consecutively, in violation of procedure and mocking the citizens of Serbia, saying that he is a thief, that he is a criminal, a SNS MP who accuses us of being thieves and criminals who imply that we are responsible for someone's death. I have to ask you a question about what it means when it is said – what is he trying to put the state in danger by informing the Council of Europe elementally, writing and warning about the state of local self-government in Serbia? What does that imply? That a man is a state enemy? What are you doing to people all these six years? The tweets of ordinary citizens and citizens you show here are just a confirmation of evidence and what we're saying and what you've been doing all these six years. So, the biggest problem with SNS, and we heard it in today's debate, is that Paracino didn't take all of these things, all of this violation of the law and the constitution are due to the fact that it's only a mission. When we talk about it, just a few seconds. Today, unfortunately, we haven't had a chance to hear anything, I call on the promoter who suggested that for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, when I say corruption, we as responsible MPs should be aware that from year to year Serbia falls on this scale, each year by internationally recognised parameters, a society that has been strangled in corruption. Today, by violating the procedure, you are breaking the law, mocking both the parliament and the citizens by submitting an illegal proposal, because the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector put together a proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Something like that didn't happen. There is no joint proposal, there are two proposals. If you accept that the Assembly is an accomplice to the mission that the Anti-Corruption Agency is also made up exclusively of the representatives of the SNS, and we know that the director of that agency was also a member of the SNS and the donor on that website of his own agency, whose director he is now, it will be the last agency and impact on the rule of law and everything we have seen in the last six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39116	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, therefore, I see here again that the main topic, Sasa Paunovic and his complaints, which he writes to both the European institutions and the US embassies, is his right. Of course, we have never served in opposition for many years, but we have never panicked and uglyd our country abroad, as you do. But it's not a practice that you invented in 2018, you're pinking your country whenever you're not in power, it's a 90s practice. So whenever DS isn't in power, it attacks and brings out the worst possible untruths at the expense of its own state. You have one political problem, you don't distinguish the state from the current government, and you think it's only good that the government in which you participate and in which you participate, and that authority in which you don't participate is not a good one. It would be good if this gentleman, once he had already folded the tab, had complained to European and US officials, for example, about public procurement in the Paracino municipality. How does he carry them out? How many million euros did he spend on national money for some of the public procurements that came out three, four, five times more expensive than the real price on the market, to write how rich he was during his time as the president of the Paracino municipality. Let him say how many new employees he has received in the city administration, i.e. in the municipal administration and in public enterprises during the SNS government, so you will see that the Municipality of Paracino, and I end it, not that it is not discriminated against, but is privileged and privileged in relation to all municipalities in which it is in the power of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39118	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39119	I am pleased to tell my colleague Martinovic that what we point to all the time, but I do not know how to tell you more carefully and clearly that SNS is not a state and that when someone points to a violation of the law, to a violation of the Constitution, to a violation of human and minority rights, to the choking of freedom of the media, it is not an attack on the state, but an attack on how the SNS considers it to be power and that it is a state. I remind you, you're a fellow lawyer and I believe these things are familiar to you, something like that is totally inadmissible to come from here. You say, "This man, you have this tendency that whenever you are not in power, you defile the state." What you do when you are in power, unfortunately, is paid by the citizens of Serbia, and what the responsible politicians have been in, it is essential that you distinguish and I appeal to you, the Serbian Progressive Party is not, and thank God, no, especially SNS, will ever be a state. And it is the duty of every decent citizen not to keep silent about lawlessness, not to keep silent about all of this for six years and do not have any doubt that you will prevent us from such a thing, intimidate us, intimidate us, intimidate us, whether here in parliament, by reporting to one of us 100 of you or thus in Paracino, and not only in Paracino, but six years in all of Serbia's cities and municipalities, by sending Zelje and the rest of the Zelje, leaving their heads beaten. Our candidate for the president of the municipality of Mininica, the head of the beaten, the kidnapped people, the frightened citizens. It's not a government and it's not a state, it's unfortunately, the power of the SNS and trust me it'll be much faster than you think the end will come.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39120	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39121	At the time of your President, Dragan Gilas, the state was identified as the ruling party. So that's the practice you've introduced. We broke up with that practice. The Serbian Progressive Party is not a state and the SNS does not exercise power directly, but through the freely elected representatives, and to remind you, Mrs Vidinovic, the freely elected representatives were run by the SNS, but were elected by citizens. What you can't make peace with is that citizens don't want Dragan Gilas, that citizens don't want DS. You know, you're now trying to force the DS, which in 1989, or 1990, was not created as any social democratic party, but as the party of the classical civic orientation that was at the time of Milan Grol. You are now trying artificially to create a leftist party, and you are being led by a man with 25m euros reported. Well, what does that have to do with social democracy? And if that money had been made in a fair way, so what would our people say, God help, rather than steal this people's departure during the time that Dragan Gilas glared and clothed Serbia. Are you talking about some kind of wish? I don't know if you've ever seen this man in your life or if that's what Dragan Gilas told you to say at the National Assembly session, but what I saw with my eyes and what the whole of Serbia, it's a photograph of Bozidar Milic who was beaten by the beatings of your President Dragan Gilas just because he asked who allowed you to block the roads in Serbia, so that those roads can't be transported by old people, pregnant women, little children, and ultimately, including the patriarch of the SPC.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39122	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Vidinović, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39123	A few things, so I don't know where to start. I'm constantly hoping that some of your thesis will last and be consistent, but the way you're breaking in to yourself is a story to yourself, but I'm not going to talk about it. You speak and again prove that you do not understand, that the state and the government of the SNS is not the same, and when someone who is obliged, who is obliged by the citizens to fight for them, to point to everything that SNS does, which is, to trample on human rights, it is to trample all laws and the Constitution, which is to choke the freedom of the media. When we point out that, when we talk about it, you say that someone is making the country dirty and much more dangerous than that, that it's dangerous for the state to say something like that. What exactly does that imply, Mr. Martinovic? That someone who does something like that is a public enemy? That it's dangerous for him to operate in Serbia? Are you aware of the consequences of your own words? That's one. Two, citizens are free, free if we can say something like that at all, since 2012, in local elections, which unfortunately as parliamentarians have become a regular thing to be extraordinary, to vote, to choose, to establish some kind of local self-government. In more than 40 local self-government Vračar, Despotovac, these are just some of them, the SNS, with threats, with force, with kidnapping, with the most harshest possible things that have not occurred in Serbia in the 1990s, has been re-imposed, are new words in the Serbian language established by the SNS. We never spoke in that way, because never in the way that happens today, which is that some people in black, and I believe that you don't hear this for the first time, in black jeeps, people in interesting physiology go very characteristicly from town to city and overcharge, intimidate, kidnap activists and councilmen, and so you say you came to power. It is a government that will last as long as it takes, unfortunately not for us, but for the citizens of Serbia, but it is a government that will unfortunately be replaced.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39124	Thank you. A colleague of Martinovic, you want a replica, and a colleague of Rističević reported after his injury to the Rules of Procedure. First we're going to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for them power is a blessing. It is more important for municipalities and states to regulate than it is for them to rule. I'm advertising a violation of article 107. - dignity. When someone who violates human rights the most, when someone beat up the protesters in the Republic Square, when he beat up the officials of opposition parties, when he killed a fan of the chocolates, that someone was talking about human rights, that someone was talking about kidnapping. To remind you, in the municipality of Indjija, which was pushed into a debt of 2,600,000, the president of the Assembly in the water management building, without quorum, in the rooms of the party that was in the public enterprise and they talk about human rights and kidnapping, while in 2015, keeping power, better say the sweetness, kidnapped in India 20 committees because their government rocked them. Bojan Pitiæ took them to Letenko. Isn't that right, Mr. Martinovic? They kept them closed for three or four days, until the assembly session, so that the authorities wouldn't change, because they believed that their committees were unwavering, so they had to be taken away, kidnapped in a few days, to prevent them from expressing their democratic will in one way or another. Was that kidnapping? Then they hired a pit bull, named Vlad Jesic, who, by the way, beat up the deputy president of Beocin Municipality just because he came to dinner at that restaurant, where they thought he was the one who would probably kidnap those 20 kidnapped councilmen. If it's from them, the chairman, it's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39126	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: No. ) Right to replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39127	I'll do my best, since my interviewer is a lady, not to be too rude to express myself. Mrs. Vidinovic, at the time of your government, people were beaten in the streets. ... Is that what you're saying to the SPS? (Mihailo Jokic: Let's keep quiet there. Radoslav Milojic: What is it? )......................................................................................................... All those who opposed DS policy were beaten. They've got tear gas on them. In 2008, when he was killed, as Mr. Risticevic said, police hens, Ranko Panic, you threw war poisons at people... (People's MP Radoslav Milojic throws it away. I don't mind, Mr. Milicevic. I've been used to them for years to behave like that. It's their practice. They can't help it. They have this prefix democratically only in the name. Otherwise, they have nothing to do with democracy. Radoslav Milojic: And you have nothing in your head. So, at the time of their government, the highest police officials were killed on the streets. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague reminded me today when I listed the names of the killed. Well, even the prime minister, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, was killed at the time of their government. Djordje, are you going to react to this? They cared so much about the safety of their citizens, they cared so much about the safety of their own officials that they allowed themselves to be in Serbia... (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... In the 21st century, something happened that didn't happen in any European country. In 2017... Radoslav Milojic: Time. See how nervous they are? They got a new boss, a new president, and she immediately got nervous in their ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39128	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39129	So, in 2017, when Aleksandar Vukic received almost 60% of the votes in the election... Radoslav Milojic: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39130	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39131	I'm done. You protested Belgrade for three months because you were dissatisfied with the results of the election. (Radoslav Milojic: Time, two minutes and 16 seconds. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39132	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39133	You couldn't see a single cop on the street, and at the time of your government, people were beaten up, people were killed, people were thrown into combat poison. (Radoslav Milojic): Slowly, Gjorge, two minutes and 40 seconds. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39134	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Dear Members of Parliament, now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm giving a break. (Radoslav Milojic: Shame on you. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39135	We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39136	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out at the outset that I strongly support all the draft laws that are on the agenda today. When it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, I think it is a good solution that will remove the shortcomings, so far the shortcomings in the application of this law, and when it comes to calling the meetings of the City Assemblys and municipalities, and when it comes to performing a parliamentary function and identifying the number of members of the municipal, or city council and identifying the number and position of assistants of the President of the Municipality or mayor. I think it is about changes that will result in better functioning of municipalities and cities in Serbia, given that it is a specific area. After all, we are all witnessing that there have been major abuses and irregularities in the past in the work of a larger number of municipalities and cities in Serbia. Not to list everything, I simply don't have enough time for everyone, but just remember the examples and results of the government of a local self-government in Serbia. It's a Smederjevska Palanka run by a colleague of ours sitting across from us, who was rampant today mostly at the National Assembly. It is quite enough for all of us to turn on the signal that we need to make an additional effort so that something like this never happens again in Serbia. What was the result of his government in Smederjevska Palanca? Everyone already knows, and it was particularly devastating for the citizens of Smederjev Palanka. So over four billion dinars of total losses, minus and debts that remained during his presidency. I come from the Belgrade Municipality of Vračar. There, for 12 years, I was a full-time council member in the Vračar municipality and repeatedly informed the public and pointed to numerous examples of irregularities and abuses and failures in the work of the Vračar municipality, while the authorities performed DS. The result of their government was just as devastating as just before when we talked about the Smederjev Palace. So more than 780 million dinars of debt, loss and minus in public enterprises whose founder is Vračar municipalities, missing apartments, missing locals, squares of business space, etc. Sometimes the creativity of the DS municipal leaders in finding a way around the law after that would really be at an unconventional level. I would like to warn you in one way how they managed to cheat the law just when it comes to the part of the law that treats the choice, that is, the appointment of the assistant president of Vračar Municipality. So, on the Sorcerer, I think they came up with that particular institute, and I think they even patented it, they'd call it the assistant president of the municipality. Then after 15 or 20 days, maybe a month would solve his functions the most. During that time he would have started a working relationship, so by the Labour Act he could have received another three months, although his function had expired, then they would have appointed another assistant, and then they would have resolved him after 15 days and so on. This all led to the fact that at one point in time there were 40 assistants of the president of the municipalities in Vrakar, and that is one manipulation, and that is a kind of bypass, if not a direct violation of the law. I can't figure out how much they've damaged the budget and the citizens of Vrachar. So they were very creative when it was supposed to go around the law, when it was meant to be thought out as they popularly say the combination, when they were supposed to fill their pockets. Here we have today, and today we have talked a lot about this one current example of an irresponsible and arrogant government in a municipality in Serbia. It is the Paracino municipality, and I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the Paracian despot from DS, Sashi Paunovic, a certain age. So 18 major affairs have been discovered in that city these days. What's he doing? Instead of currently resigning as the only kind of saving that little honor he could have had left, he writes some letters, the sad state, the saddest Serbia, complains to whom he arrived, complains to Brussels, Strasbourg, the Council of Europe, the ambassadors. The only thing I expect in the coming days is for FIFA to complain, and now the World Cup in a few days, so he could still write an appeal to the SNS and the state of Serbia. The conclusion is the same, wherever DS has exercised power, there are many abuses left behind, numerous irregularities in work, damaged budgets, filled pockets of municipal officials, and poor pockets of Serbian citizens. For all the reasons that I have stated, and the conclusion is that the positive effects of this law will be better working for municipalities and cities in Serbia and what is most important for citizens to participate in making local self-government policies, I want to invite everyone to support these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39137	Thank you very much. The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39138	Before we move on to a concrete discussion on the agenda points, I would like to stress that we from the SRS support this initiative launched by the National Major Bunjevac to correct a major injustice against the Bunjevac National Corps in the year of the 100th anniversary of the Serbian Vojvodina Queen's accession to Serbia, which is that this communist executed big-Croatian policy made a decision in 1945 on the assimilation of the Bunjevaci into Croatia. It is forbidden to plead as members of the Bunjeva people and that is a formality to be adopted by most of the province's parliament. I am taking this opportunity to call on the majority of the circuit assembly, which is owned by Dr. Babic himself, to correct this historic injustice. It's one form. Secondly, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the President of the Assembly -- did he and when he will request a video about Mecca Omerovic's case, to see what the Germans recorded with the cameras, and how did Meho Omerovic represent, present the state of Serbia? What the SRS focused on when these points of the agenda are, that is most important to us, and that is the National Bank of Serbia. The proposed candidate for governor is more or less known. The political career of the figure begins in the 1990s in the ranks of the SRS, lasting until 2000. The elected high-ranking party, elected to high office in the state of Serbia, the Minister in the Government of National Unity and in 2000 returns the SRS membership card, is passive, does not respond to politics, since it was obviously not elected by the municipal board and the district committee for MPs after 5 October, i.e. it is not a candidate for MPs in the Republic Assembly. This is what I am telling you, there are also living witnesses who have attended with me when the most democratically elected candidates for MPs have been chosen and apparently by the system as much money, as much music, so has this person. However, everyone has the right to such treatment, can change their minds, can, as well as Jorgenka Tabakovic, come after 2004 to pick up his membership card, which is perfectly legal with the SRS, restore the remaining membership fee and continue to function in the SRS. I say this more for a reason to show the public how correct and honorable the SRS as a political organisation has treated every individual, including this individual. So there's not a single shred of some sort of rematch or, as they say, some anger towards this person. There were also explanations here that a discussion of Serbian radicals could be interpreted when it comes to this personality as the abandoned husband left by the woman. It may have been part of the fact that it was justified, but it was not explained in detail that the husband had been left under the assumption that the woman was involved in political prostitution. It's not a very important element, you know, it's, political prostitution is represented today, and that's when you take a mandate from another political organisation, the party, you leave that party, and then you represent yourself as the owner of the mandate, as it was widely interpreted in the Constitution of Serbia and you say -- I was elected by the people. It's just a husband in the meantime, if that's how you want to explain it, find out. As for the work itself in the previous six years, the basic task in Article 3. The law on the National Bank of Serbia is for the National Bank of Serbia to take care of price policy, i.e. to maintain stable prices. Here, I ask you, dear colleagues and the public, to explain how stable the prices were, how hasn't there been a price increase over the past six years? Here, we all live in this Serbia, we have more or less certain incomes. Look at the cost of life in the meantime, in six years' time, they've gone up. Is it the same as six years ago? Could a pensioner, whether an employee or anyone with any income, buy the same amount of bread as six years ago, buy the same amount of flour as six years ago, the same amount of salt? It's basic life supplies. It sees how stable prices are, how much inflation is, and what is the standard of citizens. These are the parameters, the basic elements by which they are directed all over the world, including us. It is easy to interpret artificially, explain – they were stable prices. You can do whatever you want in statistics, especially if Kovacevic is doing statistics, already recognized by counterfeits. He even forged the election. As for the control of the flow of money, we have a harsh reality and after six years over 20% of the capital of the money is turned on the markets, on the flea market. What is the success of turning that amount of money where the state's control is reduced? I guess the bottom line is that money is literally introduced into regular flows that will be under control. Now it's proposed to pay at a distance. However, it will still remain, if not this one, then perhaps a higher percentage of the money that will be in circulation on fleas, on green markets. Well, what kind of policy is it that's being run, a policy that manages prices? As far as foreign reserves are concerned, gentlemen, ten billion foreign exchange reserves, the mandatory deposited funds in the name of the guarantee by the banks are about four billion. That's 14 billion. And the savings of Serbian citizens, located in commercial banks, is nine billion. That's huge capital. The essence, skill, is that NBS has the ability to activate this very significant capital, to put it into function of the development of the economy, not to hold it in foreign banks and in the name of foreign reserves to collect some income under the minimum interest. It's not the point, it's not the art. It's not something to thank for. If an economy were given at a minimum interest rate of 1.5%, we would have developed our detention in these six years, and we here point out what in the world is thought to be a central bank incompetence in any case. We from the SRS will vote against this proposal. And what's very important...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39139	Thank you. You've overstepped your time largely thanks to my tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39140	Here, I'm done. Thank you very much. When it comes to the activities of the governor himself, the governor was in favour of the recapitalisation of the "Vojvodina Development Bank", which was the end of the "Vojvodina Development Bank".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39141	The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39142	Thank you. Because of the public, it should be said, above all, that the price of bread and milk has not changed over the past six years, that prices are practically formed on the basis of the consumer basket, that what was to be paid back in 2012, are the huge debts left on the balance sheets of banks, which were just in charge of the debt of the Republic of Serbia, which were not shown through public debt, and to God, they suddenly appeared when the Republic of Serbia was due to open the arrangement with the IMF, because the MMF, and all financial institutions were looking for the truth, and that truth was just saying how much we were overindebted and in charge. When we talk about the standard, then we need to look at ourselves based on the average personal income that today is close to 500 euros, thanks to our economic reforms, fiscal consolidation and the opening of many jobs and over 80 factories. Now, that's the credit of this government. Of course, if the NBS hadn't had co-ordinated with the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it couldn't have practically carried out what she had done, which is to keep the NBS reserves, because if she had given all her capital to the economy, she would have gone to the expense of the loan, which they simply ate their substance, ate our children's future. No governor of the NBS would do that, nor would the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39143	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word She didn't mention you. [[Milorad Mircic: Could I have a replica?]] She gave her opinion, answered... (Milorad Mircic: She misread it. No, it's not. She interpreted everything perfectly. We'll do it according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39144	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants and the United Peasants' Party will vote in favour of the Governor's proposal, Mrs. Jorgovanko Tabakovic. I will not waste my time on my colleagues to all that I consider to be the reason for this parliamentary group's decision to support the extension, practically, of her and the continuation of her successful work. I will stand out only the following fact, which is that on 7 August 2012, the average exchange rate of the euro was 118.23 dinars, and today, on 13 June 2018, the rate of 118.22 dinars. I think that says more than clearly and sufficiently about the monetary policy led by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic and the NBS. For this reason, we believe that there is a chance that they should work even better for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39145	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39146	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, I will speak today of one significant reason, so today at this session, which is that the Municipality of Prokuplje gets the status of the city. The reasons why the Municipality of Prokuplje needs to get the status of the city are economic, demographic, geographical and historical. Namely, getting the status of the city and the status of the city itself means a lot. Not only in a formal sense, but, above all, in an economic sense. Cities have special advantages. It's a big deal when you're on the sidelines, but also domestic investors, you come out as a representative of the city, not a representative of the municipality. It's also a big deal for a local transfer when only the headquarters, the administrative headquarters of the management district, gets the status of the city, and doesn't keep it, so the status that it had, the status of the municipality. Why is this significant? I'll say that from border areas and so on. Passive areas are one significant outflow of the population. This particular outflow of the population, as a rule, is young people and highly educated, goes to larger cities, some go abroad, and that is something that represents a security problem in the perspective, but also interferes with, of course, balanced regional development. It is precisely an improvement in the status of these local self-governments, which represent the administrative headquarters of administrative districts, which is one, I would say, a very important kind of fight to prevent these civilization flows, natural migrations, or as we can call it. Prokuplje is the largest municipality of Toplički district and is the administrative headquarters of this district. It has a very long line, an administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija, and for these very reasons it also has a great importance, a great importance in this security sense. The municipality of Prokuplje is situated on the area of 759 km square and the municipality makes up a total of 107 settlements. What is very significant is precisely the geostrategic, geopolitical significance of this region. In fact, the Toplički district represents a territory where the shortest route is located, so-called "the shortest". A mid-Balkan transverse connecting the Black Sea with the Adriatic Sea, where over the Toplic district and Prokuplje, of course through KIM, the Adriatic Sea is reached. What I have heard today from some MPs, which is that there is no progress in Toplička County, there is no development, that simple things stand, absolutely not true, and I can claim this under moral and material responsibility. So things are moving intensively, and I'll tell you how. I'll tell you what projects are currently current, what is realized, what is planned to be realized, and what is already realised. What is most important for the Toplička district itself and Prokuplje, as the district headquarters, at tomorrow's session of the Municipality of Prokuplje, will be decided on which a certain area, the area located near the factory "Hisar" will be translated into the property of the Municipality of Prokuplje, which is intended for the construction of an industrial zone. The project is worth 400 million dinars and is agreed to be implemented in several phases over the next few years. It's about a space of 16.5 hectares where the place for its work would find a lot of domestic and foreign companies. The General Hospital transfer project, which is the district guy's new home of health, is worth over two billion dinars. There is currently a public call for the project. The construction of the monument of the Iron Heat regiment Park, the project's worth of 29 million. It opens in October of the month, and I think it will be one of the most beautiful memories of the parks in our country, and for those people who sacrificed, they gave their lives for our freedom. What I would like to mention is one intensive effort to bring investors. I also mention the opening of the Bizlink factory that happened about two months ago, where 400 people are currently working, and 800 people will be working by the end of the year. Leoni factory, which employs about 2.5 thousand people. Also, there are many small and medium-sized enterprises, I mention several, that is: "Gama", "Cip", "Exit", etc. What is significant, and it is important not only for this audience, for the MPs, but for the public, is that in the Cup unemployment has been reduced. There are currently 6,000 people on the Bureau, and that figure was much, much larger about a few years ago. What I would also point out, and as far as historical facts are concerned, is that the municipality of Prokuplje is characterized by a rich historical heritage. Namely, the archaeological site "Pločnik" found objects that correspond to Neolithic culture. Also, traces of the oldest settlement in the area of the city originate from before the Roman era and were discovered at the foot of the hill Hisar. The assumption is that on the top of the hill there was a great Roman camp and an advantage in defending that hill, that fort is the famous movement of the Toplice River around the hill of Hisar, where a river in the length of two kilometers goes upriver and real so-called. Epigeny. What is very important for the Prokuplje is that at the foot of Hisar there is a famous church of St. Prokopi, which contains the motifs of St. Prokopija, after which the city was named. Also next to that church is the famous Latin Church or the South Bogdan Church of the 14th century. 27km northwest of Prokuplje is the old and famous Ajdanovac monastery. What is very important and very important for the city itself is that it owns a fantastic natural wealth, a wealth in forests, in farmland, but it is very important to stress that we own the most modern, modern observatory located on the mountain Vidojevica, which is located at an altitude of 1155 meters and in 2003 its construction began. It is finished and represents a place where astro-meteorological conditions can really be viewed in the best way in our country. When I sum up all this stuff that I've said, I can really say that the Buyout by all these aspects deserves to get the status of the city. The citizens of Prokupja have long had these aspirations, and I think in this way, first of all, we're going to give the Bridegroom a significant developmental chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39147	Next speaker, Dejan Nikolic. He's not here. Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39148	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, I will use my time to talk about the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, to say a few words about it. For many years now, when we talk about reforming the political system, we have stressed everyone, I say, the political factors in Serbia, the need for further decentralisation of government and the need to strengthen the economic strength of municipalities and cities. The municipalities and cities are a place where citizens directly exercise their rights, carry out civic duties and therefore it is very important that we have good laws establishing the competences of local self-government units and its bodies. Unfortunately, it's often different in practice. The point is that when you're in opposition, your mouth is full of decentralisation, which makes you grab the authorities forget it and continues somehow the centralised process. Unfortunately, we have seen this in the past, especially in the shortly after 2000, when citizens were very high expectations, when it was not an economic crisis and when very solid financial resources came in terms of even regional development in Serbia from European funds. Serbia simply cannot expect economic development and progress unless other areas develop besides Belgrade. The result of years of centralised government leadership is that Belgrade has swallowed Serbia and 40% of GDP is from Belgrade, while our villages are dying, because everyone will, of course, live in Belgrade. It is not the interest of Belgrade or the rest of Serbia. During the Kingdom of Serbia, Belgrade had 3% of the population of Serbia, and today 30% of the population lives in Belgrade. So, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, today I've been listening to the debate all day, I don't think it's time to share, accuse each other, especially to involve foreign institutions in our misunderstandings, but it's finally time for unity, to gather ourselves together, and try to agree at least on those key things that are important to us all, especially in those municipalities that we all come from, because everyone is looking at their environment first. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government that we are considering today contains newspapers and will mention some of the most significant because they deserve to be mentioned. Mandatory statutes of units of local self-government are prescribed, criteria are laid down for determining the number of members of municipal councils, as well as the new responsibilities of municipal councils, in particular those relating to coordination and supervision of the work of public undertakings. This is very significant and just now my colleague Markovic, and I think some other MPs, have said what all the abuses were when it came to capturing party personnel in the past, and how unfortunately the money went to such a foster home. Control of the legality of the work of local communities and the obligation of municipalities and cities to assist in the work of local communities, which is also important. The establishment of a council of local communities with established competences is envisaged and should, of course, be commended. It is also required to keep the committee informed on a regular basis in all matters of importance for the exercise of its parliamentary duties, as well as the obligation to notify the public of the preparation of the rules to organise a public debate. Then there are provisions that specify the deadlines for the assembly meeting, as well as provisions on the establishment of equal status of deputies, the president of the assembly, the assistant president of the municipality, the mayor of the municipal administration. The paper is that the process of changing the name of streets and squares, along with national councils, will be consulted by the Council for International Relations, which I think is extremely important, because I come from a multiethnic environment, and this way is simply natural. Therefore, it is doubtless that new solutions in this bill can contribute to a more efficient and more complete functioning of local self-government in favour of all citizens living there. By passing good laws, but also applicable ones, which is very important, we are approaching the set goal, which is that the state as a service of citizens, which is the essential meaning of public administration and the way it works. I have submitted several amendments to this bill aimed at making every provision in the law clearly written and understandable, but when there is an opportunity to talk about amendments. Personally, and also as president of the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement, as a monarch, I would like to have access to the amendments to the Law on Local Elections, which I believe, Mr. Minister, that it is extremely important. I'm in favour of the board being elected in proportion to the majority system combined. I am convinced that a mixed electoral system would ensure more equal representation of candidates from different backgrounds. The main lack of application of the pure proportional system is that it does not allow the evaluation of candidate election results from the electoral list. We are also witnessing various abuses of the current electoral law that we could see in the last elections for the City of Belgrade. Just one example, and there were, yes, for example. Behind the bearer of the list stands a wider and narrow family and that the various spins hide it completely from the eyes of the public. Unfortunately, it's just one example of abuse and I think that changes to the law are necessary, that similar abuses in the future wouldn't exist. On the same principle, I also advocate a direct selection of mayors, where the quality of the individual would be easier recognised, but also clear, take responsibility for what the individual will do. I believe that after the adoption of these laws, the Law on Local Self-Government, which we are also considering today, the Law on Local Elections, which would have been proposed in due course, would have very solid grounds for further decentralisation of government and direct decision by citizens on measures of economic development of municipalities and cities and resources. That is why the task of this Assembly and all of us here is that through legislative activity and control of the executive authority, I underline – control of the executive authority, we create an environment in which the state authorities, and especially the authorities of local self-government, will not be arrogant and alienated from the people. We have witnessed a time when municipal and state counters went with a chill, knowing in advance, especially our older fellow citizens, where they knew in advance that they would not be welcomed properly and that with severe torment they would come or will not come to what is rightfully theirs. These are phenomena that have mostly been caused by the wrong personnel schedule and the ignorance that the work process is being organised, which is again part of the policy. Since arrogance in every government is essentially partocrat, it is of great importance that the process of professionalising the state and local administration continue. Professionalisation also involves not only completed colleges and state schools employed by state and local administration, but a permanent process of additional training and the adoption of European principles of good governance. Our laws on civil servants and employees in units of local self-government prescribe mandatory training, as well as how it is implemented, and these are very important provisions in these and other laws that we have adopted. I hope we don't stop at that, Mr. Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39149	Thank you. The next speaker is Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable ministers, of course, I will compare my exposure to the facts of the field in all local self-government, how the people chosen by the citizens live, how the citizens live in these local self-governments. In EU countries, first we need to see what the situation is, I know the minister is interested in it, and I would like half of the total budget revenues to belong to local self-governments in Serbia, and half of the state, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not a fact in Serbia. In Serbia, only 10.6% of respected ministers, total budget revenues belong to local self-governments, along with the AP Vojvodina, and 89% of budget revenues belong to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is bad. On the other hand, Serbia just in 2007 ratified the European Charter, which guarantees all local self-government political, financial and administrative independence. I would like to hear from you whether you are familiar with the fact that in Serbia, no local self-government has any financial or political independence. Local self-governments in Serbia are managed by criminals, such as Branko Malovic, criminals like Zelja, who are now on temporary work in Paracino, were on temporary work in Zajecar, where your candidate for the president of the municipality, as well as by the president of the municipality in front of the DS, are the facts that Serbian citizens are facing today. The facts are also that the SNS has taken away 50 billion dinars in the last six and a half years of local self-government, only by law when the current prime minister performed your office as five billion dinars. For what? So to be obliged to come to Belgrade, kiss Malovic's hand, kiss your hand and tell you – well, we will now reward you, but all tenders, all public procurement must be given to SNS criminals, and that is how it works in SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39151	Ambassador, a little courtesy wouldn't hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39152	Of course, I'm talking about how Serbian citizens live. I wish someone of yours were at the scene of Milan Gavrilovic from Mionica, who suffered serious physical injuries. Just because he represented the citizens of Mionica, he had no right to run for office.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39153	Thank you very much. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to say this for the citizens of Serbia, not because of a previous speaker who has ruined his own municipality and has brought it into debt that no country exists anywhere in the EU and outside the EU. That's the fear of a man I've never seen in my life. So, this famous Zelja, talked about all day long by his colleagues, his name is Zoran Milojevic, he is a member of the SNS General and Executive Committee. He didn't beat anyone, he didn't threaten anyone, he didn't report any assets as president of DS Dragan Gilas of 25m euros, he didn't drive in any black jeeps, like those who blocked the roads a few days ago and who beat up this unfortunate man, Bozidar Milic, who is 48 years old and who has to go to two surgeries because of the injuries he suffered, and here, Mrs Vukomanović, because I see you taking pictures, so take photos freely and tell your Vuk Jeremic that his beatings have made one man unhappy, he has to go to two operations, and otherwise they've kidnapped him 300 euros. So, not only have they blocked the road, but they're both seciks and thieves. By the way, while you're taking pictures, I don't get it with Vuk Jeremic, come on, I understand with people driving cars that they might be unhappy with the price of fuel, but Vuk Jeremic doesn't get out of the plane, he should complain about the price of kerosene, not the price of fuel. Please tell your President Vuk Jeremic to stop beating people in the streets and in the highways, because he has nothing to do with the highways, except that the car takes him from his villa to Dedinj to the airport "Nikola Tesla", otherwise his bones are hollow, became like a bird, because he lives more or less constantly in the air.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39155	Time, thank you. The word is Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39156	I thank you, President. The truth is, this will be a demonstration exercise from how the head of the SNS parliamentary group falsifys events in the O.R. and abuses the microphone. The moment I photographed, I photographed it, and it can also be checked on my cell phone, a list of speakers because our small but selected parliamentary group has only six minutes to speak and because I am sending our esteemed colleague, Dr. Sandy Raskovic Ivić, information about the list of speakers, to know if he will arrive in the O.R. For everyone else, so to speak, the insinuations you have spoken, you answer under your full name and last name. It is common knowledge that so far you have changed your political opinion and, simply, it is common knowledge to the citizens. I'm not gonna call you any of those ugly names that you publicly named yourself on the RTS show. In the political arena, everything is really allowed. Each of us has his own political name and last name, his own political conscience, and let the citizens judge us. I'm really no one's lawyer, but I'm proud to be a close associate of the former president of the UN General Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39157	Please, I need to intervene. Dear Members, your parliamentary group has no time at all. So there isn't. Dijana Vukomanovic: How is it not there? You just said in your discussion, totally clumsy, about some party crossings. Your parliamentary group should have no time at all, because you belong to the parliamentary group and the list on which you received your mandate, you are from the SPS. You didn't come here as an MP for Vuk Jeremic, the esteemed former president of the universe. The Democratic Party of Serbia is the second, therefore, list that lost its mandates only because Sanda Raskovic Ivić, as the first on the list, decided to leave the parliamentary group and thus damaged the list that participated in the elections and MPs that did not come to the meeting, but were on the list of SNS. Therefore, your parliamentary group is an artificial creation and a state of circumstances, and I don't know how the Rules of Procedure recognizes it... (Diana Vukomanovic: Replica. No, you have no right to replicate my explanation. Dijana Vukomanovic: How come I don't have one? You just don't have, you don't, you don't have a right. You think you have every right to this world. (Diana Vukomanovic: You have no right to speak directly to me. Please don't throw away, be polite. Be as polite as you are in your latest political option and two SNS mandates. So, don't come here... (Diana Vukomanovic: You're talking, who flew from one party to another. ) says Diana Vukomanovic from the SPS list, Ivica Dacic, Unique Serbia. Don't make us laugh and don't be rude. (Diana Vukomanovic: You say, you are a symbol of flying over. Yes, I am a symbol, you are a symbol of consistency. In the campaign, you spit on Vuk Jeremic and now you swear on him. Stop it, please. We're done arguing. When you're President of Parliament, you run the sessions as you wish. I'm just reminding you not to deceive the public with some of your latest political definitions and an explanation that you have some time of six minutes and 13 seconds. (Diana Vukomanovic: What are you to me? You must respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm nothing to you, except I'm the President of Parliament. You have a warning because you do not allow the president of parliament to hold a session and explain to Serbian citizens how you deceive the public. (Diana Vukomanovic: You are a symbol of democracy. The symbol of democracy is you. You took the mandate of the SPS, Sanda Raskovic Ivic, the Democratic Party of Serbia and two others on the SNS list, which is why they entered parliament. Don't read to anyone here, to the MPs, how your little respectable group has six minutes and 13 seconds. Please, you've still taken up seats on the DSS committees, who now magically doesn't have a parliamentary group. (Diana Vukomanovic: Well, you see how you manage parliament. You're the only one who can talk. It hurts when someone tells you the truth about democracy in this House. Out of pure peace, people get organized, leave their MP groups and read lessons here about how someone has or doesn't have time. Don't lead us astray. Nobody's crazy around here. Everyone remembers Dijana Vukomanovic, who was in the stands, advocated the Socialist Party of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, all the worst spoke of Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. And that's true. My God, why are you ashamed of that? That's true and all of Serbia knows it. Here, your colleagues, who made a mistake and brought you to parliament. (Diana Vukomanovic: Give me your word.) Out of the question, you have no right to do so. (Dijana Vukomanovic: Okay, I'm right by my Business. I run the sessions by my member, just like the sessions were held... (Diana Vukomanovic: You are afraid to give the opposition a word. I'm especially afraid of you. Here, I'm shaking with fear. (Diana Vukomanovic: Give me your word.) I will, when you're the President of Parliament. (Diana Vukomanovic: You can't voluntarily... You're not arbitrary? Return your mandate and prove that you are not arbitrary. A five-minute break for the rude conduct of Parliament's Diana Vukomanovic. (Diana Vukomanovic: How funny you are. You were the head of the parliamentary club that you're now attacking. The new Diana Vukomanovic. [[after breaks]] Please re-apply all those of you who intended to speak. The word is Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39159	Madam Chairman, you have allowed here MPs who represent the interests of only people who robbed Serbian citizens, such as Vuk Jeremic who, truth be told, washed more money through his international organisations, but also while he was foreign minister, knew that he had damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the DS gentleman who, not only reporting 24m euros, has done other things he has done to harm Serbian citizens. My colleague Martinovic only made a mistake, not only did one of the speakers destroy his local self-government, but he managed to even destroy the Democratic Party and to say that they did not cross the census in Belgrade, as president of the executive board, to simply make the party that had power in the Republic and destroyed all segments of public life, so that it did not cross the censorship in Belgrade either, and to be destroyed and completely below the censorship and never be able to perform public functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39160	Mirko Krlić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39161	I, the chairman, had to point to Article 107, to insult the Assembly, because any saying of the untruth is indeed a great insult to both the citizens of Serbia and the Assembly. I am talking about an MP who spoke in order and spoke the worst words for a member of the executive board and a member of the main board of directors Zoran Milojevic, who is otherwise an MP from Kosovo, who is a respected representative of the Serbian List and who is here for arrests and is talking about his depotism and his physical violence against other people, against Paracino, in an election campaign, over everything and everything. Who doesn't know Zoran Milojevic, he's about the constitution of my friend Marijan Risticevic, so if he beats the whole Parachin, it's an honor to you. Zoran Milojevic was arrested and Zoran Milojevic was behind bars for Christmas, 2013, when ROSU, the criminal police, arrested him and beat him in the middle of a court in Pristina. Those who today also wish for such an arrest are the same as those who arrested him at the time. For as the old Latin put it, he rejoices in a similar way. That's where you settled in. That's your coalition partners. That's how you arrest Zoran Milojevic. Otherwise, the great French philosopher, if I have a little more time, Walter, said in his policy definition – Politics is the point of agreeing at the right time. He didn't know 300 years ago that Walter existed in the Serbian parliament an MP who lies from hour to hour, who, I think, gets up two hours earlier to get to lie, can't lie as much as he can, he's a little 24 hours old.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39162	Thank you, MP. According to the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39163	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to announce Article 108 that the session of the National Assembly is held by the old President of the National Assembly and Article 109. You were obliged to give a warning to the previous speaker because he said he was in power in Kosovo with Haradinaj the Democratic Party. He's mixed up, he's someone in power, but it's Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, they're Ramush Haradinaj's coalition partners, Kadri Vesenji and other bandits who... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39164	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39165	We are such allies with Haradinaj and Thaci that Mr. Marko Djuric, president of the KIM Office, was beastly beaten and led in chains throughout Pristina, only because he had the courage to come among Serbs to the north of KIM and tell them that the state of Serbia will never give them up. As for Mrs. Vukomanovic and her presentation, she is a politician. It would be good for us to explain in which democratic, European Parliament in the world one party has two parliamentary groups. So Vuk Jeremic in the National Assembly has two parliamentary groups even though the man did not participate in the elections at all. One parliamentary group is called New Serbia – the Serbia Rescue Movement, which it belongs to, if I am not mistaken and Mrs Vukomanovic, and the other parliamentary group, again, the parliamentary group Vuk Jeremic is called the Social Democratic Party -- the People's Party. I don't think that there is anywhere in the world, that a man who didn't participate in the elections at all, who didn't even have a registered party at the moment of the election, but the NGO of the Centre for Sustainable Development and International Co-operation and through its international partners and criminals acquired over seven million dollars, now has two parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is not always clear to me, when they report for the replica to be defended by little Mr. Aleksic, little Dijana Vukomanovic, who is actually the authentic representative of Vuk Jeremic? Did Sanda Raskovic Ivić, do Diana Vukomanovic, do Miroslav Aleksic, do Djordje Vukadinovic? Who here really represents the Wolf of Jeremiah? It seems to be represented by everyone, and the connective tissue, you know what it is – money, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39166	The word is Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39167	Thank you, President. Here, let me explain to my esteemed colleague, Martinovic. Just as my colleague Martinović, just as I personally, although you are the head of the SNS parliamentary group, I do not consider myself to be the representative and personal spokesman of Aleksandr Vukic, so I hope that you, too, are not us who are members of the newly founded NS to see us as the personal spokesman Vuk Jeremic. When you are already quoting this NGO, or “Tink Tenta,” so-called “Tink Tenta. ” The CIRSD Institute, then pronounce the correct translation from English to Serbian, the Centre for International Relations and Sustainable Development. So, you've been permuting. Vuk Jeremic is a name that is sufficiently pronounced abroad and that everyone else, from all countries of the world, no matter which east, west, north and south with respect, receives information based on the fact that Vuk Jeremic was the president of the UN General Assembly, nearly 200 members of the world. So there are no more significant global international organisations than the UN. If Croatians, i.e. Croatians, Slovenians, or Slovenia, Montenegrins, Montenegro, Macedonians, Bulgarians, anyone, Hungarians, Germans, Englishmen, anyone from our environment, had a politician who headed the UN General Assembly, they would have spoken that name with respect, whether they belonged to the authorities or to the opposition. So, once again, I am proud to be an associate of Vuk Jeremic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39168	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39169	Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. It has just been a letter saying that the NS MP here in parliament has compromised dignity. (Diana Vukomanovic: Member, member? You haven't heard, Article 107. If you didn't look in the mirror, you'd hear what I'm saying. Article 107, so you have endangered the dignity of the National Assembly by misleading Serbian citizens that you are a representative of some NS who has not participated in the elections, has not adopted a single vote, so do not deceive parliament here. Only members of the parties and the lists who participated in the elections sit here. You're the fugitive MP of the SPS. You spoke so nicely of the President of the SPS, Mr. Ivica Dacic. And that's why you're sitting here in Parliament. The fact that you didn't become Minister of Education, so you got angry and went to Vuk Jeremic because he promised you that you would be the Honorary Consul of Nicaragua in Paracino, it's something else and parliament shouldn't put up with the fact that you here deceive Serbian citizens and say that you are an MP for the non-existent party in the non-existent elections. Go to the republican elections to see exactly how many NS will win parliamentary mandates and then talk about your policy. Oh, Vuk Jeremic is best told by his donors who are now in the United States in big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39170	Legally on the line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I deeply apologize to Mrs. Vukomanovic, for not putting the correct name of the NGO Vuk Jeremic. Otherwise, I think it's a clean organization to launder dirty money and I can't say anything other than what SNS President and President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic said that Vuk Jeremic is part of an international gang of thieves. As for his reputation in the world, I think he was only respected by two men who otherwise funded his NGO with Patrick Ho, the former Minister of Interior of Hong Kong and Sheikh Tidian Gadio, who is the former head of Senegal's diplomacy. Otherwise, they were both arrested in the U.S. They were the finances of the NGO of Jeremic and of them, by his own recognition, so Mrs Vukomanovic, he admitted it, received millions of payments from his private PR agency. I hope you know that apart from Patrick Hoe and this gentleman from Senegal, the president of your party was also getting money from the Qatar embassy in Berlin, and that is $200,000, and I hope you also know that Qatar is one of the countries in the world that is the most financially helpful so-called. The Islamic State of Iraq and Levanta, the so-called ISIS. I think that Mr. Vuk Jeremic is famous next door, in Hong Kong and Senegal, but only with these two financiers, apparently he's also popular with ISIS because he's friends with those who finance them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39172	Thank you. Right on the line, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39173	Thank you, Vice President. So, I direct my colleagues from the SNS, two previous speakers, to take advantage of their parliamentary right, they know the Rules of Procedure very well, and to give an initiative to call some special session, a thematic session at which the character and work of Vuk Jeremic will be discussed. I really don't want to respond to a bunch of insinuations, unproven claims, tabloid inscriptions, different structures about money flows. I would just point out that Vuk Jeremic, when he was an MP, as far as I know, as all of us MPs, respected the procedure, asked for agreement on consulting services from the Anti-Corruption Agency. These assets, these money that you mention, the bassological ones, can be checked, there are probably reports in that Anti-Corruption Agency, the tax inspection was in the same organization, which is not a political party, and we need to distinguish that from the People's Party from CIRSD. So it is your legitimate right to place, as MPs, unproven claims, insinuations, pointless accusations, but I say the truth will always come out, justice is slow but accessible. If you have any knowledge, as citizens of Serbia, you are free to appeal to any court, the first court around you. So, I think it's very hard to prove what you're saying, and we really don't think the people fall for such pointless accusations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39174	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39175	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 103, 108. I listened to the lady earlier, and it has to do with the dignity of the National Assembly, that Vuk Jeremic, whom I call the Wolf a descendant, asked the Agency and the Administrative Committee, is it so, to be allowed to engage in advisory services. He did, but he asked for one company, and he got the money from two other companies. So you get the consent to, say, advise the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, get consent, and there it turns out that you have advised the Qatar Assembly or the Albanian Assembly and then you say – but I have reported it. So you essentially didn't report it, or he didn't report it legally and it's incorrect that there were any insinuations. I, a year and a half ago in this House, who remembers, asked the question -- "State Energy" and a full source, as two companies are called, who paid millions of dollars on behalf of the Vuk's anti-government organization, I call it an anti-government organization and asked the question, did that happen? It came across a mockery. Our Ministry of Finance, checking my allegations, asked foreign governments and foreign institutions to verify that it was true. These two gentlemen fell in that net, quite accidentally. I might not have asked for so much, if someone had confessed. But they claimed it wasn't true and I thought Vuk Jeremic was innocent. One more thing, that he chaired the assembly, that's this state, this government allowed and paid for the Parliament's presidency, that's what pays.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39176	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39177	Therefore, a certain amount had to be paid to give him the presidency. He was paid an apartment, a driver, and so on. So the state paid him off completely, and he was working against the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39178	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39179	Thank you, Chairman. So, members of 107 dignity and 106 that can only be talked about on the agenda. You know very well what topics are on the agenda. Allow me, since counterpart Risticevic mentioned in an ugly context the nickname he invented himself, the descendant of the Wolf, to point out to the citizens of Serbia, because yesterday it was anyone's wolf, Jeremic, who was a descendant. He was a descendant of Nuri Pozderac, who was 75 years ago, was an anniversary yesterday, died on Sutjesca, and he was vice president of AVNOJ, and Nuri Pozderac was known for it as one of the honorable and prominent people, since he was posthumously decorated by the Charter of Honor and Medal of "The Righteous Among the People's States of Israel", in gratitude for saving Jews in World War II. There, such people are descendants of the Wolf of Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39180	Right on the line, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39181	Thank you. My colleague Martinovic directly mentioned me, by the way it was also said in an untrue, false context. You asked if and who's the representative, who's talking outside. I'm not a member of Vuk Jeremic's party, I'm not even a member of the Vuk Jeremic parliamentary club, nor in the name of our club is there, this club is made up of people who are some members of the party. What's important, so don't spread your hands, I think Mr. Vuk Jeremic was a very good foreign minister, not even the members of his party meant it, not everyone was thrilled, I think he was a solid foreign minister, I think he fought against recognition of Kosovo's independence, more or less successfully, he didn't have enough support in it, often from his own government, as this current government is fighting against it. But the point is, this really isn't a session dedicated to the character and work of Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas, and I don't know why colleagues from the ruling party keep trying to turn her into one. So they're neither on the agenda, nor directly or indirectly connected to these personalities. By the way, I commend that the replicas are used more than they are advertised by the Rules of Procedure, but the replica can be answered more or less successfully. But I don't see that it can be allowed to use expressions for anyone in this assembly or outside of it that it's headed by organized crime gangs, etcetera. Imagine what it would be like for you if I called your party, say, if you were an organized criminal gang or your leader that he was the head of an organized criminal gang. So I don't do that, and either of the basics, and we could also quote some media inscriptions and some texts, and that kind of thing. So it won't take us far. There have been attempts here, I'd say commendable, that it also advocates assembly, for joint action. This isn't the path to which we're going and to which we're going to get there, we're just going to end up in a barren region that doesn't entertain anyone, not even those who are watching us. But if we have to, we can do it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39182	Comrade Vukadinovic, remember what you just said. We'll get you some rock notes about both the SNS and its president and the President of the Republic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need for the National Assembly to be engaged in character and work, or rather in Sunday, Vuk Jeremic, because the figure and work of Vuk Jeremic is done by the United States. Mrs. Vukomanovic, this is an official document from the United States District Court, which means the U.S. District Court, the South District of New York City, which states who Vuk Jeremic was connected to. So, Patrick Ho, here's what it says in the official documents of the US District Court for the city of New York, Patrick Ho, charged with a series of corruption, bribery and money laundering, including two million dollars to President Chad and $500,000 to the head of Uganda's diplomacy. Sheik Tidian Gadio, former Senegala foreign minister, your friend, mediated, says, in bribing African leaders, for which he received a $400,000 commission. Further says the US court -- Emilio Lozoja, suspected of being a ten million dollar mediator to President Mexico by the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht. Who else is involved with your great Jewish savior in World War II? Ji Ji Jiangming, arrested in China on charges of involvement in an embezzlement of at least 38 million dollars. Vuk Jeremic says that for the unknown, the US court for the present time is being investigated, so maybe people will find out who he has consulted and who the companies have been going through, says Vuk Jeremic – for unknown consulting services, according to the US court, through the account of the private company and the NGO received $7.5 million. So this doesn't say SNS, this is what the New York County Court is saying to lead the investigation into Vuk Jeremic. Therefore, we have nothing in the National Assembly to do with the character and work of Vuk Jeremic, he is under investigation in the United States. The only thing I can ask your American friends to speed up this procedure a little bit, so let's see who else he was connected to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39184	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 103 on article 107. Here, Comrade Vukomanovic tried to deceive us rudely. So I really said that Vuk Jeremic – Wolf is a descendant, but I said that he is a descendant of the famous Murat-age Pozderc. That's what I'm behind. The man raised a riot against the Austro-Hungarians, raised riots in the Casinian province. In that sense, in a positive sense, I said he was a descendant of the famous Murat-age Pozderc. She said he was a descendant of Nuria Pozdertz. That's not true. His grandmother, Sadeta, was married to Sheriff Buljujasic and was not married to Nurija, so she is by no means a descendant of Nurija Pozderac. So much for it, not wanting me to pull out his family tree, but a great lie was told, with the aim of bringing him into contact with the People's Liberation Fight, so Marco stood up first. Number two, Wolf Jeremic, whom I call a wolf descendant, by the dispatches of WikiLeaks, sold this country. Namely, he asked the Americans to influence the Albanians of Kosovo to declare Kosovo's independence, and these dispatches are available and published, our southern provinces, Kosovo and Metohija, prolonging until Boris Tadic is elected president again in 2008, which happened. Boris Tadic was elected on February 15th, sworn in, and on February 17th, Albanians declared independence. He actively participated in the construction of the Kosovo state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39186	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since I see where this is going, and I don't want the Assembly to continue the controversy about a man who hasn't even participated in the elections for the republican parliament, means at this point completely worthless, and I don't want the debate to continue, in accordance with Article 112, to set a three-minute break. [[After a break.]] The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39188	I thank the chairman. Before I say anything concrete about the proposed legal solutions, I must say that it is simply symptomatic that in recent days we have attacks on people with KIM, including Mr. Milojevic, a man who lives on KIM in Leposavic with his family. A man who has been a fighter for the state policy of the Republic of Serbia for years in the area. The man who's been fighting for years for the survival of Serbs at KIM and it's symptomatic that during the time of the exacerbation of the KIM situation attacks on him and the like, by DS. If they were half as much as those people who live there, probably our problems in that field would be half as easy. I'll go back to concrete legal proposals. It is a good thing that this government continues with these reforms that began in 2014 with the government of Aleksandr Vukic, and according to this are these laws, including the Law on Local Self-Government. In fact, one of the most significant newspapers is that citizens will now be asked directly about important decisions on where the most important decision, budget decisions and decisions will be made from what infrastructure projects will be priority in their environments. We know, in Subotica, it is not that we have not yet known what priorities and what projects were priority, but we have not benefited much from that, and the National Theatre and Revitalisation of Palic etc., but they were only priority in sucking up people's couples and enriching individuals in power, particularly those from the DS at the time. It is good that you limit the number, or standardize the number of assistant mayors of local self-government mayors, because we can have catastrophic consequences. Some new generations in both biological and political terms that come after us will be able to set an example of what it looked like until we had some sort of orderly system. An example for some future generations could be the Smederjevska Palanka municipality. You know, it's one municipality with 800 million dinars in the city budget that ended up with four billion dollars in debt. They were imaginative ways of extracting money and borrowing the community. It's probably even the first time we've seen that a football club has been turned into a public company, and then it's sucking out that state money. Not only that, this section concerning the restrictions on the number of employees, council members and assistants, the municipality probably had twice the number of employees needed in local self-government, which was a unique example in Serbia. That's why this legal solution will come in handy. As far as these other laws are concerned, such as this Bill of Parent Books, with all due respect, but I think that the life of an ordinary man will be the most affected by this Law on Parent Books. Why? You will be able to get performances not only in the Republic of Serbia but also in embassies and consulates around the world and across the region, primarily in the region live millions of our countrymen and our citizens, they will be relieved of this part of their trip to the Republic of Serbia and will be able to take it in consulates and embassies, which, of course, reduces costs. Evidence of policy that involves taking care of our countrymen both in the diaspora and in the region. Also, this trail includes these laws concerning and enrolment of nationality, voluntary enrolment of nationality. It is a big deal, it is a policy of preserving the Serbian name in both the Republic of Serbia and the Serbs in the region and in the diaspora. It will contribute much to the preservation, because in the 21st century, as you know everything that isn't written, somewhere they say it didn't happen, but not only of the Serbian name, it will also contribute to the name of all those national communities living together in the Republic of Serbia without which Serbia would not be what it is. It is precisely this trail that includes all these other laws concerning the affirmation of the rights and positions of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, it is nothing new, Serbian society is traditionally tolerated and open. The proof of that is, I just recently saw Dushan's code in which even then we find traces of the arrangement of the relations of the majority communities with the minority. I have to say we'll certainly support it, and I come first from Subotica, a community that's more national and we can be proud of that part. However, we can also be proud of Serbia's overall economic picture. You have serious financial and political stability in Serbia after many years. The consequences of that are certainly a stable rate of dinar in recent years, you have inflation somewhere at 1.5%. The 2012 dinar savings have been increased three times today, and citizens need to know that this trust in domestic currency is coming back unconstitutional. It is the consequence of these two things, serious financial and serious political stability in previous years. Also, as a result of all this, investments of 2.6 billion are ultimately economic growth of almost 3%. I believe this was precisely the criteria, in addition to that extensive biography and truly envious biography of Jorgenka Tabakovic when the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, proposed her to re-election as governor of the NBS. We will certainly be happy to support this proposal as well as all these legislative proposals in the voting day, and we expect Mrs Tabakovic's results in the next period of the minimum, and if not something better. So many respected colleagues and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39189	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39190	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, first, just a few words, I will present my opinion on the amendments and addition of the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Since I am myself a proposer along with colleagues who are signatories of this proposal, the municipality of Bor and the municipality of Prokuplje will receive the status of the city. I believe that this should certainly be done, given that the headquarters of the administrative districts are also, and this is about the Borski County and it is about the Toplička County, which includes four municipalities. Of course, this support is from the heart, as well as from all members of the SPS parliamentary group, with a note, since we are also talking about minority rights, national minorities, that in the Bor municipality of 14 settlements in 12 settlements, Vlasi is dominated as a national minority and that makes some sense and reason for us to support it. So we support that Bor and the Cup be cities in the future, and I hope we adopt that. When it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, however, there are a number of reasons to comply with the laws governing certain issues of importance for the work and functioning of local self-government. This is one of the reasons, and another, to remove many of the shortcomings and shortcomings that have been manifested over this series of years ago. So it happened, for example, that even small municipalities, undeveloped municipalities, have as their executive body municipally larger with 11 members, which is absolutely inappropriate, uneconomyal, so that this is now correcting through normisation, so to speak, which is absolutely functional and thus avoiding these political calculations and agreements on the burden of the budget of local budgets. What is also positive is that the assistants of the president of the municipality were very much under the question in the current law, because there was a provision that the statute of the municipality could provide for the municipal administration to ask the assistants of the president of the municipality, which was a small door if it was wanted for political reasons, that these assistants become officials of local self-government the next day, so that, on that line, the small doors were entered by persons for political reasons to be in a permanent working relationship. This provision that the assistant president of the municipality, or mayor of the longest, is appointed to the office of the president of the municipality or mayor for a period of time during the term of office of the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor is quite fine. What I would draw attention to, I personally believe, and also here in the SPS parliamentary group, is that the term of local Heroes is not appropriate to this law and that it should be changed and amended and we have added one amendment to being a local Citizens' Protector and that it is in line with what is the resolution of this institution at a republican level. The example works in other countries he has his own name, so for example the People's Defence is in the Spanish-speaking countries, the Citizens' Defence is in Italy, the Citizens' Protector is in Canada, and then the Parliamentary Representative for Administration in Great Britain, etc. What is also good through these changes is that they regulate the status and way of choice and relations of the local community with the units of local self-government, the issue of supervision, the jurisdiction that has created many major problems, and that should be welcomed. I also want to assess in a positive sense what the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is through the functioning and allocation of funds from the Centre for the Development of Local Self-Government Programmes and that 320 million and 183 thousand dinars are planned this year for three objectives. One of the objectives is the programme and development of infrastructure in investing in the reconstruction of objects of culture, sports facilities, educational and administrative buildings, etc. The two aim is to provide financial, technical and other assistance for the development and introduction of electronic administrations. The third goal is to help organise cultural, sports, tourism and other events. Two hundred and sixty-two million is for the first goal, for the development programme already divided, i.e. the commission set it up. To support the e-Government of 48 million and 27 000. To help organise cultural, sports and tourism 10 million and 69,000. It is a total of 320 million and 183 thousand dinars, while in 2017 only 10 million and 400,000 dinars were spent for these purposes. The increase in this function is about 30.7 times compared to last year. Also, I would like to say that this ministry, headed by Minister Ruzic, will also help through the United Nations Development Programme, where certain funds will focus on local self-government for the development of these local self-governments, which is a procedure I believe will be implemented by the end of the year. This is, of course, all the data that deserves a high grade for the good work of this ministry. When it comes to minority laws, laws relating to the position and rights of national minorities, we have here, above all, the most important two laws, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and the National Councils of National Minorities. So these laws are based on a constitutional basis, primarily on the 14th member and some other members, not to list them. Also, all the solutions in the law are in agreement with the conventions of international human and minority rights, above all with the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, and this gives us, in fact, yet, it is another moment of fact that our country Serbia is really working in a very warm way to improve the rights of national minorities, and we can also boast that we are in a significant place in Europe. It is about improving the individual and collective rights of national minorities, as additional rights in relation to the majority population and especially in the fields of culture, education, notification of official use of language, etc. The reasons for the adoption of these laws, particularly when it comes to the Law on National Councils, is also the powers which, meaning, are defined by powers instead of jurisdiction, which is based on recommendations from relevant international bodies that have been monitoring, as well as on the depolitisation of these bodies which are in the function of protection and promotion of minority rights. What I would add about these laws is what I think is controversial, it is a matter of funding national councils, which are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from the budget of the autonomous province and from the budget of units of local self-government. It's a solution that's happened before, but I have to say that there's a lot of self-will and co-existence between local self-government and the obligation to fund national councils. So I believe that the ministry with the competent authorities should exercise more supervision and pressure on local self-governments that must comply with the criteria and participate in the financing of national councils. I will also end up with what is the ministry's fund, which concerns funding projects and programmes for language promotion, official use of language, culture of education and information in local self-government. In 2017, only one million and 800 thousand were allocated for these needs. Now in 2018, the fund is 12 times bigger and it amounts to 21 million and 800,000 dinars and will significantly improve the situation in terms of project implementation for the needs of national councils and therefore the ministry also deserves great praise. Of course, I'd have a lot more to talk about, but I'll leave time for others. We will uphold these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39191	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39192	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, we are now talking and talking about the draft laws where I am one of the residents of the municipality of Srvljig and four years ago I'm talking about local self-governments, small environments, mountain-mountan areas, because I really want as a national MP, because now it's a chance to hear the voice of people from such municipalities. Otherwise, I represent here in the USS Assembly, selected from the SNS list. As far as this law regarding local self-government is concerned, I can only say a few things. In particular, perhaps, the jurisdiction of the council -- that's good, for limiting the number of members of the council, I think that part, I put the amendment there, I think it could have put up to 10,000 people living in one local self-government to have five council members, and over 10 to 50 have the right to seven council members. But it's something the minister will decide on, or we here in the Assembly. As for the assistant president of the municipalities, that part, I think you should have seen the number of inhabitants relative to the territory. In particular, municipalities exist that have a smaller population, and they have a large territory, mountainous and mountainous areas have responsibilities given by the Republic, and on the other hand, there are needs for each citizen to meet. We have to approach every village and when it's a difficult situation, when it's snow, when it's rain, when it's a bad time, when the weather is like this, we have to get everywhere, we have to get to every man. There we must have representatives and the Ministry of Health and the Doctors of Internal Medicine, emergency aid. We have to have social security workers and everything else, and a large number of these small environments, such as the municipality of Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Vladic's Han, don't have it. The law provides the possibility for several municipalities to join together and, normally, public enterprises to join together and thus assist their citizens in these small municipalities. As a folk MP, I will vote for a set of all these laws and as a representative of the United Peasants' Party invite all local self-government to be given greater support to the village, agriculture, and thus the development of our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39193	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39194	I thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, considering that one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to create an effective, professional, modern and rational public administration, we can say that these nine draft laws that are now on the agenda are approaching the final objective, which is a comprehensive reform of public administration, which is a key prerequisite for the success of all reforms in the Republic of Serbia. This is a good opportunity to remind ourselves of what the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have done so far and how far it has been, when it comes to public administration reform. The results speak unequivocally about the commitment of the entire government to this process, and what is important is to point out that a number of laws have been passed, from amendments to the Law on civil servants, the Law on employees in the autonomous province and units of local self-government, to the laws governing salaries and the system of pay coefficients in the state administration, thus removing long-standing doubts about what is the job of a civil servant, who are his responsibilities, which the coefficients apply in the job, etc. Then, the laws that create conditions for permanent and continuous education state officials through the National Academy of Public Administration, the laws on electronic services and electronic administration, which made it easier for citizens to have many complicated procedures and wait on counters, but we already talked about it in this home. These are tangible and visible results and precisely these nine draft laws follow the further process of public administration reform. I will, in that sense, refer to the Law on Local Self-Government and State Administration. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government actually defines the competences of local self-government units, the way the Assembly works, municipal councils and administrations, ensures the participation of citizens, and seems to me to be the most important in this Law on the work of local self-government, reforming the functioning of local communities, and strengthening inter-municipal co-operation, when it comes to the performance of the affairs of municipalities and cities that are of interest to all citizens. It is very important to underline that while some municipalities and cities have conducted public debates so far, when it comes to the preparation of the investment part of the budget, this bill actually introduces the obligation of all local self-government to consult citizens through public debates. Mr. Minister, you have remained consistent with your position that you keep pointing out, which is that citizens are a priority, namely that transparency in the work of local self-government, which I am sure will be stopped, above all, the haughtiness of individuals in relation to those citizens who have shown them confidence. That is, unfortunately, not only when it comes to local self-government. Today, we have had the opportunity to face the boast of people who have misused the will of citizens, but it is good that the law regulates at least the attitude towards citizens, when it comes to local self-government. In the same direction, we are also looking at the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, which will also contribute to an open and transparent dialogue with representatives of the association, civil society organisations and the general public when making laws and other regulations and acts, as it also foresees the obligation of all authorities of the state administration to conduct a public debate at the earliest stage of preparing different regulations. We believe that a sustainable consultation process is a public body that prepares and lays down rules of utmost importance for the democratic process of policy making, in which all citizens certainly play an important role. Minister Ruzic, fully convinced of your ability and the ability of your team, we expect you to quickly and successfully realise all the objectives of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why you have the full support of the SPS parliamentary group, which will support the set of laws ahead of us in the voting day. Other proposed laws have already been spoken of and spoken after me. I will also refer to the motion for governor of the NBS, which was sent to parliament by the President of the Republic of Mr Aleksandar Vukic. The essence of this proposal is contained in the reasoning that we have received and the positive results in this regard. Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic managed to maintain macroeconomic stability along with the government of the Republic of Serbia, with full co-ordination of monetary and fiscal policies. The reminders for, when it comes to inflation, these percentages are visible and I'll talk about them briefly. In 2001 it was 40.7%, then 13.7% in 2004, then 1.6% in 2016. The results shown must be a guarantee that the proposed governor is professional and reliable. In the belief that in the next term, they will successfully manage the business of the NBS, taking care of the overall economic stability and development of the Republic of Serbia and the well-being of all citizens, the SPS parliamentary group will support a proposal for the governor of the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39195	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not here. The remaining SPS time is 43. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39196	Thank you. Since there is little time left, and my intention was to talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, I will use this short time to begin by commending the urgency of Minister Branko Ruzic and his associates, above all, with one newsletter where everything is placed and taxed. And what's impressive is the administration to measure all of us. So, a sentence that is crucial and that gives the characteristic of all these nine proposals of the law on local self-government, which points out that local self-government exists because of its citizens and that citizens are the key subject of every local self-government. What's interesting, what's been going through these laws before, but what I'd put an emphasis on, that's the citizens' initiative. So citizens can now, with 5% support from the polling list, submit initiatives and co-operate with each other to make these communities better, to make the population a better environment of life. Another interesting, and very important thing is the local communities, where the legal position of the local communities has been corrected. The same goes for local communities and local administrations in general. In voting day, we will support this set of laws. The SPS parliamentary group is supporting, by the way, Minister Branko Ruzic and this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39197	The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39198	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I will really try to stick to what's on the agenda, even though we've had the opportunity to hear about everything and everything. The first law I'm going to look back on is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parent Books. First of all, I want to commend the part that concerns the possibility of a change in parent numbers in people who have decided to change gender. What I would like to point out primarily is, and I had the opportunity to hear yesterday and today from some fellow Members of the People's Parliament, although we are in one way or another chosen by citizens, to talk about various topics and that we can have opinions on everything, that we should inform ourselves about certain topics, and that some hate speech and language of discrimination should be avoided. So the people who decide to change the sex don't do it from the whim. That's what they do, first of all, because it's a question and part of their identity. What the law doesn't define to the end is what happens in that vacuum period when a person hasn't yet made a gender change and subjected himself to that act? In fact, we've heard from organizations dealing with transgenders and various experts that there's this problem in this vacuum period, because here's the solution that the health ministry, within 15 days, after the gender change, delivers information about it and then the person can make a change in the parent number. But you know that this is a process that lasts for a minimum of two years, that the process precedes the psychological preparation of people who submit to it, and that should not only be a question of gender change, but simply the very feeling of a person and how that person feels and how he sees that part of his identity. Perhaps you should consider finding a solution where the person and during the very duration of the process... Because of hormonal therapy, and because of everything, they're largely identified with the sex that changes, and practically the other sex is in the home number. Also, as a member of the National Council of the Macedonian National Community, I think I can speak legitimately about what difficulties national councils are facing in the work, so I will look back a little on the Law on National Councils, i.e. the Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils. It is a good goal that is envisaged and reasoned, which is to reduce the politicisation of national councils, but I honestly think it is impossible because in this parliament, therefore, in the part of the legislative authority, we have representatives of certain minority communities whose voice is heard, unlike some other representatives of minority communities in Serbia whose voice we cannot hear in parliament through a set of different circumstances. Also, in every government of the Republic of Serbia, we have at least one minority community that participates in the work of the Government, and therefore to believe that this minority community that participates in the work of the Government will not in any way advocate that the minority group to which they belong has a better position than other minority communities. This may, I suppose, not necessarily mean, the most manifest through Article 43. The draft law on amendments and additions, which refers to Article 119 of the applicable law, where it is said that the National Minority Budget Fund is managed by the competent ministry. It's okay. However, closer to the criteria is governed by a government in which, as we have said, certain representatives of certain minority communities participate. The quarterly report on budget spending also seems too ambitious and I think that the provision relating to the permanent costs of national councils, which must not exceed 50% of the total budget, will be controversial for national councils that have a smaller budget. Let's say, the advice that has annual budgets of about 70,000 euros, let's say, on average, 6,000 euros a month, you, for that money, if you want to have professionals, lawyers employed in national councils, you should maintain a website, pay the accountant, I don't think that's enough funding. I have something else, but there are some things we've been through. I don't have much time, so I'd just like to refer to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. You have predicted that 2% of members of national minorities, who participate with 2% in the overall population of Serbia, can address the language of national minorities belonging to parliament, and we have been thinking a step further, and I would like to hear the minister think about the proposal. Members of the national communities that make up 2% of the total population of the local self-government unit may speak in the town hall or in the municipal congregation, too, in the language of the national community to which they belong. For example, in Pancjev, members of the Macedonian national community could speak in their own language. A question for a representative of the VSS. I have no doubt that legal conditions have been created for the selection of new judges, nor will I deal with their biographies, but according to the European Commission's Progress Report on Serbia, it is said that the Supreme Cassation Court has found that with full time there are 2.586 judges in Serbia, which is at 100,000 people 37 judges, the European average is 21, and our judiciary remains ineffective.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39199	Bring the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39200	According to this information, we can conclude that ineffectiveness of the judiciary does not result from a small number of judges, but is a problem in something else. What can be done about it, given that we really... As far as judicial reform is concerned, according to each report by the European Commission, we are still getting very negative assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39201	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39202	Thank you. You mentioned a lot of interesting questions. One of the first ones you mentioned is a practical subject, and it is related to the Law on Parent Books, and this law requires a gender change in the parent books of the born. What it also writes is that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government with the Ministry of Health will prescribe a registration procedure and a form that the doctor will fill out when the person changes the sex. There is no vacuum, the law enters into force on 1 January 2019, and until then, the sublegal act, which will treat this issue, will be completed and we, together with the Ministry of Health, will format the form in a way that is adequate. After a signed form by the competent doctor, the parent will enter the birth certificate of gender changes. Of course, the Ministry of Health, as an expert on the area, will define the moment in the process when the doctor will issue this certificate of gender change, and this is a practical formalisation of the health finding. As for funding from the budget, I think the supervision of the spending of these funds, that budget, and we have three levels of budget, so the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget and the budget of local self-government, all that money and all these funds are taxpayers'. I think it is important that as a state, we oversee the spending of these funds, and it is also important that national councils of national minorities do what the law provides. So this proposal practically goes towards meeting the content of what is a function of the National Council, not to spend the funds exclusively on salaries, because, plastically speaking, what is then a function of the National Council. As for the smaller national councils, I remind you that last year we activated that budget fund for national minorities. This year, he was raised to some amount of 21,800,000 dinars, that these projects could be, or the competition is now over, but I think 164 applicators arrived, where, of course, NGOs and organisations setting up national councils have the right to apply and thus some additional funds can be identified for national councils. Also, what is available to national councils is donations they have the right to benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39203	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39204	Will you, Risticevich, sit down so you can work? Dear Vice-President and Chairman, Honorable Minister Ruzic with his associates, honourable MPs, I am sorry that the representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are not present today, to say something about the candidates they have proposed. Dear MP Vera Paunovic outlined the basic views of the United Serbian Party's parliamentary group on the draft laws that are now under consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have a few minutes left to announce a few of our views on this and especially on the proposal for a candidate for governor and a proposal for candidate for judge presidents. It's good and positive, Mr. Minister, that you recognize the local community as a place to live, a place to solve family problems, individuals and citizens. That's why I think it's very important and important that we consider today and hopefully we will adopt this set of laws regarding local self-government. The role of the local community is very important and important. We will not go back to the period from which I encourage, but it is very important and important that we recognize the local community where man is involved and where the buckle is in the exercise of power and the rights of constitutional and legal regulations. In that sense, I welcome and accept what our honourable Member has stated that we will support these laws. There, I can say, is the political and social activity of every citizen. I especially point out that this is very important, which was not said to be particularly about over 4,000 villages in Serbia, which is over 4,000 local communities, where people who are mostly older and pensioners live. That's very important to us. That's why I think we should encourage what Minister Milan Krkobibic does and works, which is that in every village there must be a cooperative, there must be a doctor, there must be a church, there must be a postman, etc. etc. Personally, I think this merger of ministries and co-operation between individual ministries must be much better than it is now. In that sense, I particularly stress this need, care for the old and care of pensioners in these local communities, and I can say that it is close to two million citizens of this country. That's why I accept the proposals of these laws, and we will support it in the voting day. I also note that you, Mr. Minister, have noted that someone supported the proposals, which Dr. Laketic specifically spoke about, that Bor and Prokuplje were declared cities. I remind you, you were then a National MP, that in 2016 our parliamentary group proposed an amendment regarding the two cities being declared even then to cities. I personally think it's very good. We'll back it up. The second thing that is very important and important to us is the question of choosing the governor of the National Bank. There were a lot of words here, Vice President Arsic said the most about it, why Jorgenka Tabakovic should be governor again. I point out another element that is very important. The National Bank of Serbia is co-operating with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially with the Finance Committee, and I personally think that this should be supported and we will give that support. And, third thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39205	Bring the end to Mr. Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39206	... The absence of a representative of the High Council of the judiciary, we will support the proposals they have made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39207	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39208	I thank the chairman. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates. I'd like to say something about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. Local self-government is a basic organisation of government. The development of local self-government is one of the conditions of democracy and the rule of law. The state has an obligation to create conditions for the continued functioning of the local community as a whole. The importance of local self-government is to witness the adoption of the 1985 European Charter by the European Council, which guarantees the foundations of local democracy and the most important elements of local self-government status. In Serbia, units of local self-government are municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade. This law introduces some newspapers and makes changes. The law should allow better inter-municipal co-operation, to improve the mechanisms of direct participation of citizens in restoring local self-government affairs, to ensure public participation in the preparation of laws and other rules of the state administration body. The amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government will allow for better application of the institutions of direct democracy and for citizens to become more involved in making decisions that are important to their communities. These legislative changes propose a mandatory consultation of citizens regarding the creation of a budget of local self-government in the area of investment, according to the municipality's minister, most of them, but should become a commitment to all other local self-governments. The functioning and local communities and their relationship with individuals of local self-government, the work of the assembly, municipal council and municipal administration will be improved. The aim is to improve the public consultation process, which is interested in informing the public in the earliest stages of the regulation, through amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, in addition to the mandatory public debate procedure, and included in the earliest phase of the application of the draft law. I come from the local self-government of Subotica, which, following the total destruction of the Democratic Party, has begun to be renewed and developed. A good vertical for its restoration is the city, the province, the republic. The Serbian Progressive Party, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, is of great importance. Subotica was one of the rarely developed municipalities, which had dozens of factories. After 12 years of ruling the DS in Serbia, or 16 in Vojvodina destroyed and destroyed its future. It's the shame of Serbia. The factory only left the porters. The workers, over 30,000, stayed on the street. It was done by managers who were providing material benefits to themselves through robbery privatisations, set up tenders, bursar percentages, commissions, bankrolling of the state budget. Just remember your crisis headquarters and how you beat people up and changed them, you put yours in executive positions. Political lessons cannot be shared by those who literally destroyed the country, which left the highest unemployment and poverty rate in Europe. You've ruined all the high-end companies, allowed crime and corruption to wave. As long as you attack us, we will know that we are on the right track, on an honorable and unholy fight for the better life of our citizens, along with the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic. I don't think there are any local communities in Serbia, or local self-government that Alexander Vukic has not visited and has not started any renovations and investments. You've destroyed us so much, you've ruined everything, every inch of this country, and it's going to take a long, long time for her to recover. I come from health care, where the disease is not treated symptomatically, as the symptom requires, someone is being treated causually, and I don't think that aspirin can be treated with the cancer that you've made Serbia. With the help of SNS and Alexander Vukic, it is built and is done in all local self-governments. The work of the current government is work, not words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39209	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39210	Thank you very much. We have, as usual, a strange argument that unusually can sometimes be good, sometimes bad. In our case, it rarely happens when it's good, or almost never. We've been listening to different discussions these few days about everything and everything. In addition to those written and with the hard pain of the read compositions we hear from the other side, every more serious debate was far from the subject, of these draft laws that are ahead of us, and this is not good, not only because of the media, because of the citizens of Serbia, who probably have very little follow-up to the Assembly, because practically if they are not eager for some bizarreness, primitiveism and violation of everything that has to do with parliamentaryism, they have nothing to see much. We've heard a lot of things today. In the afternoon debate, there were one and a half hours, perhaps two, dedicated to Saša Paunovic from Paracin, who, by law, rules, good customs, addressed the Congress of the local and regional authorities of the Council of Europe with his complaint that he had problems because the president, the government in one local self-government, and thought that there was pressure from the central authorities on himself, which are far from what would be legal and normal relations. It was declared treason. As far as I remember, there is still a crime in the Criminal Law of Serbia – treason. Hardly, if it doesn't exist, then there are crimes that are close to it. So when someone thinks they're a traitor, someone's working against their country's interests, the first thing they need to do is file criminal charges against him, that by means of legal means, especially if it's a government, it also gives affirmation to the institution and respect for the law, which is usually one of our most permanent grudges of friends from Brussels, friends, if you want with quotes or without quotes, whatever anyone wants. They say you've made some progress here, you're not here, you're part of it, but you haven't done anything to uphold the law. Imagine one state they say – you may have a well-organized fiscal system, maybe settled public finances, maybe this, maybe that, but you certainly don't apply the laws. So what do you mean, it doesn't matter if we're gonna be part of the EU, how do we live in a state that doesn't apply the laws? So, I think Sasa Paunovic used his right to appeal. As I recall that procedure, and back in 1997, I was president of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, which was then called Yugoslavia, now Serbia, and that's a perfectly normal thing. At that time, during a time of severe terror, Milosevic's terror, the president of the assembly, the mayor of an opposition city, was headed by a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, and that the president of the Free Cities Union was at the time. I mean, it's time to go back to what is the role, the importance, the place, the pedestal of this house we're in, and that's where we're having serious debates on topics that are on the agenda. Let me look back on a few things in this little time that I have left. First, a joint debate on local self-government, governors and the Anti-Corruption Agency is unacceptable. Then we can talk about everything, about the National Museum, about sewers and the fight against white mice, who's already bothered by it. So let's go back to respecting ourselves and this home, not for ourselves, but for the citizens of Serbia. The governor who's been proposed is already in the full term, perhaps more in the post. The authorities' opinions and opposition are divided whether what she's doing is good or not. I think she has one insurmountable obstacle to being in that position, and she's the vice president of one party and she really shouldn't be. He can resign in that place and, since I've known her for a very long time, I think he's got enough experience, if not the verified knowledge of the job, that he can do the job by making the decision of the congregation majority. But choosing your party's deputy president in a place where there's absolutely no place for politics is a pointless thing. Let me remind you, I replaced a governor named Mladjan Dinkic many years ago. We have a choice, together with that, and a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I must warn fellow Members of Parliament of all colors and definitions that the President of the Assembly has kept us secret, or has not informed us of one letter that was received the day before yesterday, 11 June, where the Commissioner of Information of Public Meaning, who says – Madam President, I address you, because I consider my obligation to pay attention to you, and also to your mediation as president of all Members of Parliament, meant that it should be sent to us, too, to bring down the subject of discussion in the National Assembly that would baselessly attach itself to the institution of the Commissioners. He says, in the next text, that I don't read everything, that there are illegal proposals, that we have two illegal proposals to decide on. One proposal was put together in 2015 by the Commissioner for Information...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39211	You're bringing the end of my colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39212	Yes, I will. Where the new Commissioner for the Protection of Citizens' Rights withdrew the proposal, and then he made a proposal that he had no right to, because the proposal must be proposed by two creditors. I just want to show you that, in addition to all the illegalities that have marked the work of this call and the previous call, they cannot vote on anything that has nothing to do with the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39213	I thank my colleague Zivkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39214	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated because the previous speaker mentioned terror, the collapse of institutions and similar things, and the institutions of the state are referred to by the man who destroyed all institutions, the man who seduced the state of emergency, you remember "Sablje", we all remember "Sablje", when he arrested people, tens of thousands of people arrested completely unfounded. The terror of the man who set this building on fire, set this building on fire. When you beat people up just because they had a different political stance, you entered with weapons into the institutions of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Please, I think you had to warn him, I think you had to interrupt him and give him a warning. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39215	Slowly to my colleague, Zivkovic, first to answer to my colleague Markovic. My colleague Markovic, I really can't influence the MPs what they're going to say. I know that Mr. Zivkovic said some things at his own expense, let's say he replaced Governor Mladjan Dinkic with votes from Bodrum. But I can't stop him from doing himself any harm. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Alexander Markovic: No. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39216	Article 107. First, the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39217	A colleague of Zivkovic's, it was 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39218	Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39219	Now 106, all right. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39220	You have allowed a colleague to abuse the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure, and in addition to making five or six missing sentences to which he has injured many other members of the Rules of Procedure. First, if he's convinced that someone burned this assembly, that it was me, it was time, and now it's not too late to file a criminal charges against me about it. On the other hand, if I had arrested, if I had imposed an emergency, I regret that my colleague has no minimum knowledge of the matter he should know, but the state of emergency does not introduce the Prime Minister, but is proposed by the president of the state, and the government is implementing measures from that area. The third thing, 10,000 people weren't brought in without a basis, but they were all translated with a lot of basics and it was a little bit, it was supposed to be more, and it's justified that a colleague remembers that. And if he feels one level of fear because of what happened in "Sabreya", his fear is completely justified. But it doesn't matter... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39221	Comrade Zivkovic, I have to interrupt you. (Zoran Zivkovic: If you must, I congratulate you. I must interrupt you so that you do not now violate dignity, or I violate the dignity of the National Assembly, which I would let you tell everything you have in mind. You're threatening to go back to power to arrest people past the Constitution, because the whole state of emergency was unconstitutional. Did I get it right? (Zoran Zivkovic: You understood nothing. I understand perfectly. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement on this in voting day? (Zoran Zivkovic: Of course!) ) It will come out. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39222	Thank you. I am a member of 108th advertising for the simple reason that Aleksandar Markovic has said a number of very rough qualifications at the expense of Mr Zoran Zivkovic. He accused him not only of burning the assembly and parliament, but of ordering arrests, i.e. the "Sablje" action, past the constitution and past the law, in which 10,000 people were arrested. You had to stop him, but now I see that neither you nor Mr. Arsic know until the end... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39223	My colleague Bozovic, first of all, I am not the one who is able to measure the constitutional court's evaluations, I am not in charge of such a thing. All I know is that the President of the Republic has constitutional authority to launch an emergency situation. At that moment, to correct you, in order not to continue to embarrass yourself, the president of the Republic of Serbia did not exist, but was a man of duty who only carried out the necessary tasks. There was no constitutional basis to seduce the state of emergency. That's what the Constitutional Court said, not my colleague Markovic. Therefore, a fellow MP, like everyone else, under the Constitutional Court Act, seems to me that Article 167 is all obliged to respect and enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court, including the MPs. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39224	You didn't let me, Mr. Arsic, finish. So, the "Sabbe" action, as you know, was carried out after the assassination of the prime minister, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, whom your party wants to acknowledge for everything he has done in his life. The SNS authorities continued with policy to mark the site of Zoran Djindjic's death. So, an action that arrests tens of thousands of criminals and mobsters in Serbia cannot be unconstitutional. What is your mistake today is that you did not warn Mr Markovic when the flat-rates were due to his accusing Zoran Zivkovic of burning parliament. That's not true. It is known who burned parliament because it wanted to cause bloodshed in Serbia in 2000. Therefore, what many of you were then in parliament burned, sitting in SNS benches today, but what is the essence is that you had to warn Mr Markovic that such things never come to his senses again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39225	Since I am obliged to answer to you by my colleague Bozovic, I do not know any of the SNS MPs who burned parliament on the one hand, on the other hand you are a lawyer, so you know that the state of emergency has been taken unconstitutional and that the police and the prosecution have all the evidence that has been obtained contrary to the Constitution had to be dismissed by the court. (Zoran Zivkovic: False. The constitution doesn't define it, it's based on the law. ) So even, whether you want to accept it or not, the state of emergency has helped some to be free today because evidence has been obtained contrary to the Constitution. Mr. Zivkovic, I don't want to argue with you about this. (Zoran Zivkovic: I'm just giving you advice. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39226	I thank the chairman. You've injured Article 103. You have been obliged to defend this wooden lawyer what cannot be defended, take away the word and make a warning, because he defended something he cannot defend. So a criminal act, such as killing the prime minister, can't be an excuse for ten thousand times the crime Mr. Zivkovic committed during the "Sablje" by arresting political opponents, putting them in jail for no reason or evidence whatsoever. Therefore, the wooden lawyers should be involved in writing elsewhere, not in the Assembly, and you had to take his word and break it, because that criminal act used to fight political opponents, in order for Serbia to pay a huge amount of damage that did not even contribute to finding and processing the prime minister's murderers, cannot be defended in any way. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39227	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39228	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 103 regarding Article 107. I'm the only one in this room who voted for the late prime minister. The only one who voted for the late Prime Minister Djindjic. Someone can cry all they want, but with that in mind, to state that the state of emergency has been counter-constitutional. The constitution then said the state of emergency could be introduced to the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It was introduced via Natasha Micic in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. All that came through and the law that was passed was a mix of law on martial law and martial law, and that's why the Constitutional Court said what he said and that's why all those arrests and decisions were almost nothing. Of the 12,000 broken doors, 2,000 were detained, and I think only a few hundred processed. But when the state of emergency is imposed, it is introduced to remove the reasons, and the reason was the prime minister's murder. My fellow farmer was a federal police minister and allowed him to be killed by the prime minister of a federal unit and, worse still, sat down in his place and even worse, the republican interior minister, who was at the moment of the killing of the interior minister, re-emerged in the government. So you can figure out for yourself what my colleague's responsibility is for killing Prime Minister Djindjic, whom I alone voted for. And when he talks about how it went for a doctor's examination, Djindjic took the minister for a doctor's examination, but he did not take the minister for a doctor's examination, because he couldn't take himself either. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39229	Now, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39231	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is in order, so there is no confusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic, my fellow farmer did not take down Dinkic's governor, it was the other way around. Because of the vote from Bodrum and the basement, probably the liquor cellar, Dinkic has been remanded by taking down my fellow farmer's government. Speaking of local self-governments, there is a local self-government Vracar in which my fellow farmer announced a protest on Monday, here and, behold, miraculously, with a promise to block Nebojsa's street, a man stopped at a walking crossing. Here, if that's not true, if it didn't happen yesterday, then I'm carrying full material and every other responsibility. And there came a spider, new rules, came a spider and took a vehicle. And now probably my fellow farmer needs to get a little bit out and pay for it. But how did his local self-government function when he was in power, and he shared more wealth than power? He was a federal minister, he was a republican prime minister, but he never knew he was ruling over himself. He who does not know how to rule himself cannot rule others. There is another proverb that says: "He who ruled over others is the unbearable authority of others over him, and he manifests it." He blocked Nebojsa's street, they took it to him, but where miracles, now I know, his local self-government worked like that, and people team up in local self-government because not everyone can carry their own garbage, not everyone can make their own streets, roads, etc. And that's why people pay some bills to do it. Now, he told his citizens -- bills in barrels. Why in the barrels, why didn't he find the bucket? Only then, after these famous accounts – throw it in the barrels, which took revenge on the citizens, because they had to pay it at interest, was it only then that I understood why they called him Zoran, a fellow farmer, Rubin. So, we used to, while we were in the Serbian Parliament and while he was talking about how local self-government functioned, we used to say Zoran "political".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39232	Thank you, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39233	Lately, he seems to be doing a direct injection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39234	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39235	Thank you very much. Article 107, dignity. You again let someone talk out of the agenda, tell orthodox lies about the other MP, bring absolute untruths to all sides. To prove my claims, I have to tell you a devastating fact. I think it was March 18th, 2003, the moment I was elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as Prime Minister, and the predecessor voted for me and I consider it one of the worst things that has happened to me in my life, but what to do. Also, he voted for that Serbian Interior Minister, who he said earlier to be, since regardless of the undeserved experience in parliament, a colleague would have to know that he was not choosing the prime minister, but that MPs were elected by the ministers, and he voted in his own vote against what he now allegedly has views. His lies and lies were estimated at a few dozen million euros, it's like 50 silos to pass, that someone, not you, of course, that some rats, mice, lemurs, receive some other varieties of food, and all that was in the stock reserves, is still far from foreign exchanges. Therefore, I ask you, the chairman, you have already shown today that you have a good way of leading Parliament and I ask you to protect the Serbian public from what happened to us earlier. Also, some colleagues are complaining to me, sitting there near the sight of some unpleasant smell on that side... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39236	Thank you. I do not think that I have violated that member of the Rules of Procedure, for one simple reason why my colleague Risticevic spoke in order, it is difficult to predict, it is impossible to predict what and how the MP would consider the current subject, and as far as I understand it, he spoke of a local self-government and the way this local self-government was led. I have to ask you anyway – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Zivkovic: Of course!) Thank you. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39237	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 108, Mr. Chairman, you've had to take some steps. This Balša Bozovic, who is here to share the impressions of fellow farmer Zoran Zivkovic, the famous winemaker, the famous winemaker. Just to remind me that Balša Bozovic's father was the bodyguard of Zoran Djindjic. Here's another impression, as far as Zoran Zivkovic's impression that I had the misfortune to vote for his government, from the pitet to the late prime minister, therefore, did not at any time dispute that he was a federal minister, that Balsa's father was his own temporary bodyguard, that Mihajlovic was a Republic minister, that he proposed once again Mihajlovic for the government's composition and that I remind him that MPs voted in general, did not vote in ministerial posts and precisely from the pitet to Zoran Djindjic, the late prime minister, we voted for the government of Zoran Zivkovic. Now, about Balašević and the smell from the farm, it doesn't talk about me, that's what it says about them. It's their opinion of farmers. That's what Balsha's grinning at. That's what they write to a farmer, like monkeys, like Balsa Bozovic writes to me. It's not an opinion of me, it's an opinion of all farmers, because they think that a plate that smells three times a day doesn't fill exactly those farmers. As for the stock reserves, it should be asked by Vice President Cedomir Jovanovic. I caught him stealing, 22,500 tons of 80,000 tons went missing in Krcedin. And, behold, the owner of this silo was Dobrivoje Sujuk, the man who signed Zivkovic's famous 525,000 for the vineyard.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39238	I thank my colleague Rističević. My colleague Rističević, I do not think I have violated the Rules of Procedure, the said member of the Rules of Procedure, and as far as I understand you and Mr. Zivkovic insisted on one thing, which is to stick to the agenda and to introduce this session, we continue with a democratic dialogue. For that very reason, I will now take a break again, according to article 112 for one minute, and then we will continue in the order of the registered Members of Parliament. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing to work on the order of the registered Members of Parliament. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39240	I thank the chairman. It's not a pleasant atmosphere, and almost human beings feel uncomfortable, I think that today we really, as much as we stuck to the frames yesterday, we talked about everything just not the agenda and not just these points that matter. Of course, there are reasons and needs for some political debate, dialogue, controversy, and that is why I always support that the replicas are allowed without abuse of the rules of procedure. Anyway, it is really bad, scandalous, however you want this unification of grandmothers and frogs in our agenda plus an extremely small deadline, so just 24 hours to prepare for such different agenda points. I'm not a superman like some of my colleagues who allegedly have studied all this, but what I've looked at, there is, of course, as well as usually quality suggestions and less good and opportunities and needs to be amended, but of course it will remain in the second, third plan because this, even a day-political rather than a mountain, a word needs, a fight or a need, a desire, an impulse prevails, and then ultimately no one knows what the word was about. Erem, I had a good will to vote, so my colleague Zivkovic confused me, let's say I voted for these proposals, because I didn't know about this memo he mentioned, that I was voting for these proposals for members of the Anti-Corruption Agency and Mr Rakočević Zivojin, whom I personally know and I think he will do this job well and Mr Janko Lazarevic. So I think they're quality, they're different, but they're high-quality suggestions, so they can contribute to the Agency's work. However, I will now ask myself to see what nature is, the procedural remark and this letter that my colleague Zivkovic stated. I'm saying this because no matter what our vote is not, our groups decide, but we simply have to try as much as we can to say things and decide not to the bells or to someone's command, whoever that command is, but by some conscience, so how well or wrongly we judge it. I would also welcome these solutions, and it has already been mentioned several times by colleagues from both parts of this room, that it is good to find a final place and a solution for local communities that have been in the airless space for several years and that it would be good to find space here somewhere. What's the problem is that such good solutions stay somewhere in the second, third plan, of ours, I say, day-to-day-political struggles. So it's good and it's nice to find an institutional place, I say, for this important, potentially important or most fundamental, the most elemental institution of democracy in this system, but on the other hand I support this and Bor and Prokuplje, the two cities get the status of the city, i.e. the two municipalities get the status of the city, if that means, as we've already heard in those environments, we can support it. However, I think there is a need for a serious one, and I ask Mr. Minister directly, the need for serious review and this city's allocation policy, especially the status of the municipality. There is great asymmetry around Serbia, very different criteria. I know it can't be just a criterion of size and population, but I just think we should seriously work on that reconstruction. This is now a low-resistance line, it's administrative centers, it's the districts, the largest municipalities in those districts, and then it's going to get the status of the city. Let them win, I hope it'll be of some use to them. The right to tell you, the local communities in Serbia, in Vojvodina, you have Batajnica, you have Futog, you have Sivac, so you have some local communities that are smaller than the municipalities than the cities, or these cities that have the status of the city. So it's one serious anomaly and it just needs to be changed, and it needs to be given the status of the municipality, and maybe the status of the city. That may not matter to us right now, but it doesn't matter that much. What's more important is what I wanted to end up with, and as a small contribution to this discussion, this atmosphere that's being run. You know, justice is, when we're even, when we have a similar treatment, when the presidents have similar treatment. I'm just going to illustrate a little bit to see what kind of atmosphere and what we've heard and not the worst things the opposition representatives heard from the government here during today's debate, and that's how I end up. How about if I said it or one of my colleagues, how much we'd get notice, punishment and whatever else. I'm not going to murder and who's to blame for the murders, I'm skipping it. You've destroyed the earth, as long as you attack us, we'll know we're on our way. You have destroyed so much and ruined Serbia that it will take us years to recover. With the cancer that you've made Serbia you can't cure with aspirin, you're going to need some stronger medicine, and this is the last one I'm adding. Do you really think that in the atmosphere of such, and this is just part of it and not the worst part of the accusations that are heard at the expense of the opposition, that you can really talk quality and serious about anything, especially these important points of the agenda that we have here today. As for the election of Jorgenka Tabakovic, I do not enter these private arguments and affairs mentioned by some colleagues, but I commend that inflation is kept at a low level, I also commend and foreign reserves, but I think the NBS needed much more to devote itself to this developmental element of the country's economy rather than just preserving fiscal stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39241	I thank my colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39242	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing several laws that are one of the most important laws, which is the Law on Local Self-Government. I think it would be incorrect if I didn't say a word about it because I spent many years in local self-government, in fact, doing the jobs of the president of the municipal executive board, I was elected president of the municipality by majority means such as Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dragan Markovic Palma. Before this function, before this job I'm doing right now, I was Chief of the Danube County. I think I should say a few words and be very brief in view of the experience I have in that area and that other colleagues might say a few words. I think these are the first steps to bring this law into line with our goal to join the EU and bring this area into line with our intention. I see that the promoter is seeking rationalisation which is very important, which is, in fact, the most important thing for local self-government to be citizens' services, so that whoever comes is not in a subordinate position to do some work in municipalities but to be respected in an appropriate manner. You have reduced the number of members of the council which is very good, or you have dimensioned it according to the number of inhabitants, for something we have to bind, the number of assistants as well. Only when it comes to the appointment of sessions, I would suggest to you that you think about it, is it good to schedule meetings in a shorter time in order to carry out various tasks, quickly and efficiently, when it comes to the arrival of investors, especially foreign investors, but I think the election of the president of the municipality and the president of the assembly should be an exception, that is, to be an appointment for those purposes, the appointment of sessions as it was now. So, my intention is to avoid many combinations in this period, when the SNS has a convincing majority. In many municipalities it will not happen, however, I say it should be taken with reserves to think about it anyway. We mentioned the districts briefly, I say, time and through details I will do little and talk about their responsibilities, and now I would just like to take the opportunity to praise the initiative of the representatives of Bor and Prokupje, that these cities get the status of the city, are very good explanations, I support it, all the more, for the reasons why, here, I propose to the government that and think about it. So this means to the cities that get that status, it means to the people who live there. They're encouraged to stay here, to live on. So, for investors to arrive, it means when they negotiate with anyone and therefore you have to think about that other cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants have some features of the city, they get that status, because I'm saying, we're not losing anything, we're just getting out of all of them. What I'm trying to say today is that I absolutely support Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's choice as governor. I don't know her personally, I only know her work and what she did as governor is for every respect, is the stability of the dinar we have. Second argument, I don't think it's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39243	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. The remaining time of the parliamentary group for three minutes, 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39244	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, MPs, the SNS will certainly support all proposed laws on the grounds that they are an integral part of the reform programmes and reform activities carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I would like to look forward to is the proposal by the President of the Republic, Aleksandra Vukic, to re-elected as governor of the National Bank of Serbia by Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic. I believe that the proposal is absolutely justified, and the justification of this basis confirms the results of the work of Jorgovanka Tabaković from 2012 to 2018. In 2012, when Jorgenka Tabakovic took over the National Bank of Serbia, the dinar was the world's fourth worst currency of 178 countries. This is what the "yellow company" after its rule left behind the SNS when it comes to the value of the dinar. For these six years as far as the dinars are concerned, last year the dinar was declared the second best currency in the world. Jorgenka Tabakovic should also be re-elected as governor of the NBS because low inflation, inflation within the target range is preserved, and it moves around 2%. I must stress that out of 44 EU countries, 31 countries have low inflation, i.e. deflation. The 31 countries include the Republic of Serbia. After the rule of the "yellow company" in 2012, inflation was double-digit. Therefore, both are the results of a responsible monetary policy that was absolutely consistent with the fiscal and financial policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I must also point out is that it is the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in a dinar, as its currency, because the savings in dinars have grown significantly over the past six years. I also have to point out that foreign investors and that they trust political and financial stability. This certainly shows an increase in demand for securities, which certainly shows investors intend to stay in Serbia, open factories and create new jobs. Investors see Serbia as a safe and economically stable country for its investment. Jorvanka Tabakovic, apart from her impressive part of the educational achievement, where she proved to be an expert in the area of finance, in the area of banking, has first and foremost another quality, which is economic patriotism.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39245	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic. He's not there. National MP Marija Janjusevic. No, I don't. National MP Dragan Vesovic. No, I don't. National MP Miladin Ševarlic. No, I don't. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39246	Thank you, Chairman. I would first of all like to start with a quote that has been particularly imposed on me these days and which says – This kind of dangerous behavior, police abuse does not contribute to the long-term security situation and relations between citizens and police, because unnecessary tension and mistrust is created. Police are forced to do something that is not her jurisdiction, which is to iron the stains of the government's economic policy and by applying repression prevents citizens from showing what they think of it. He said on August 5th 2011, a member of the SNS's main board, Marko Djuric. In fact, this, yes, may not have much to do with the subject, but I just wanted to draw attention, Mr. Chairman, that there are double arches when we talk about this point of the agenda, and these are double arches by the ruling regime. It's one behavior when you're in power and then you're bothered by citizens' protests and then you take every opportunity to talk negatively about it, and when you were the opposition in 2011, then you supported the protests of workers, farmers and raspberries and criticized the police and the media. Then it was all allowed. I would only appeal to return to one of those constructiveities and to one, to say, the political sand that what you did to the opposition, let the opposition now work also when you are in power. The second thing, I was, Minister Ruzic, I think he was very aware and a witness, speaking very constructively about the agenda points that are on the agenda. So I was talking about the positive effects of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government, the parent books, the national councils of national minorities, and thus showed that I am not an opposition to the state of Serbia. I'm an opposition to the current SNS and SPS government. Anything good you suggest will always have the support of the Serbian Chamber movement, regardless of what we are in one of the stronger opposition to the current government, but you must be aware that you are not only proposing good things here and that as an opposition we have the right to talk about what you are doing wrong here. Mr. Minister has remained in my debt to answer those questions. Why is the incentive of cooperatives from the Law on Local Self - Government being kicked out for example? To explain to me, what are sensitive groups to be supported, is that perhaps meant by migrants? Those are very specific questions, Mr. Minister. Then I asked you why the mayor of the municipal administration is not responsible for his work to the city or municipality but to the municipal council? A very specific question. You have not answered me about the honorary citizens Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandra Vukic, who, without any resistance to any merit for local self-government, received the titles of honorary citizens. And you skipped the answer. You didn't answer the key question I asked here, which is what does the EU have to do with the Law on Local Self-Government? Why do you impose on local self-governments to adapt themselves to the EU and introduce some standards and to participate in this whole empty, vain, overcome, wasted, pointless story of European integration? Well, they just need you to force them to, and they're adapting to one false and pointless story about European integration, which we'll never enter, into the EU, ever. And we all know that, and we're acting crazy. And because of this trip to the EU, we agree to a lot of blackmail, pressure and the most terrible harassment by the same EU. I don't understand it, but it's already some kind of sado-mazo variant that the current regime likes. What you've also kept me quiet is where the role of the parent service is in the great process of missing, or stolen babies? Why didn't you consider it through these changes and additions to the law? Who is responsible for missing and stolen babies from Serbian maternity homes decades ago? And there's a big role in parenting and parenting books in this most fearsome and creepy crime of kidnapping children from their parents and reselling them further, and declaring children dead, of course. It's impossible without the planting of the parent service. Of course, you haven't responded to that scandalous story about evicting the name Serbian from citizenship in the passport since October 01st of this year. Is it possible in Serbia that someone will be ashamed of what Serbian citizenship says there and change and put the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia? Why? Because a member of the Muslim religion in the Rasca region felt discriminated over why he wrote Serbian citizenship in his passport. Next time, the same member of a national minority will feel discriminated over why the country is called Serbia, because Serbia has the word Serbs and does not write anything other than other national minorities, so it will demand that the word Serbs in the words of Serbia be thrown out or that the name of the state be changed because it is discriminated against. You didn't answer my question about public agencies. How many are there? How many employees? How has this ever been hired without competition? How much of this country's budget is spent by these parallel structures that don't report their work to anyone? So, Mr. Minister, I'm very specific. There's no joke with me. I'm serious about this. You haven't answered any of these questions. Please. I have to tell you. So I praise what is good, but what is bad, I criticize and expect your answers. Maybe I'm wrong about something, so you'll explain. But the fact is, you haven't answered all these serious questions. Like that judge who escaped or, as they say, is not present today, and who I asked very clearly – does he have that VIP loan that the bank granted him? Do other judges have VIP loans given to them by banks that no other Serbian citizen can get? And it is clear that banks have an interest in granting these most favourable loans to judges, so that judges do not judge by law in the event of bank clients being damaged and sued by banks. Well, can you tell me any other motive in this world that banks give judges the most favourable loans no one else can get but to corrupt them? And we all know they're corrupting them, and we all know it's crime and corruption at the top of the state between banks and judges, and we keep quiet and watch what banks and judges do to us. And then you'll convince me to re-iterate Jorganka Tabakovic for the second term at the head of the NBS, Jorganko Tabakovic, the largest lobbyist for foreign banks in Serbia, who whenever he chooses between banks and damaged banking clients side by side of banks. Currency clauses - robbery, commissions - robbery, tax evasion of banks - robbery. Where was Jorgenka Tabakovic for six years? She wasn't anywhere, of course. Import lobby. She's a great candidate for an import lobby that imports here everything that we here can produce and destroy the competition of domestic economy and agriculture, because her dinar course protects the import lobby and destroys the domestic producer. And we all know that and we act crazy, like it's not like that. So if we choose a candidate for governor of the NBS who corresponds to the banking and import lobby, Jorgenka Tabakovic is the number one candidate and there are no better ones. But if we are looking for a candidate who cares about the domestic economic interest, the interest of domestic economy and agriculture and domestic banking, then Jorgenka Tabakovic is the worst possible candidate. Of course, what I must tell you is what you have avoided here to bring through these changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. You avoided, of course, returning to local self-government what was taken from her original jurisdiction, from her original incomes, from her original property. So, you practically robbed local self-governments, transferred their budgets to the state budget, and then now you return them to a spoon to similarity, so who's party-like and politically-like, he can get money for projects from the state budget. No, you give back the money that originally belongs to local self-government, and she'll make these projects herself. Also, you have avoided, which is very important to point out, you have avoided in fact that here we are seriously talking about criminal affairs in local self-government where you are in power. Let me give you an example of Prepolje and the president of the municipality with five criminal charges of abuse and non-intentional spending of funds. Would you like an example of Požega? Would you like an example of the Grainian, where it can't be solved for decades? Would you like an example of the Kings, where the dedicated spending on sports NGOs is? Would you like an example of Chačka, where the street is given to a future German investor who hasn't even opened his factory yet, etc.?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39248	I'm done. So, please, Mr. Minister, very specific answers. Don't be hard on me, because then I'll be in a position to ask you a question – how do you criticize the former regime when you were part of the former regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39249	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jahja Fehratovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39250	Thank you. Member of 107th Dignity. The previous speaker spoke very negatively of members of national communities and religious communities, Muslims. In his previous speech, he said the other day that Serbia is a multiethnic, multinational state, he praised it, and now it bothers him that members of national communities and minority nations want to exercise the right guaranteed by the constitution. The state of Serbia is a multiethnic state in which Serbs and other peoples live, and it is most normal for passports to say it is the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see what would bother anyone. In particular, it is a very unnecessary finding that someone will be disturbed by the name of the state and will ask for it to change. Therefore, members of the national communities of minority nations are loyal to this state, but they want to exercise the rights and use the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws. This is what we praised, that indeed the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia are good and that they respect the rights of national communities, but that sometimes there were shortcomings in implementation. Here, this has corrected it, and it is an honor and pride to the entire state of Serbia, precisely such an act, that all those who are not Serbs can be recognized in citizenship, and those who are citizens of this country. In the end, this is proof that the gentleman who spoke before me will never accept living with another and different, although sometimes he tries to tell this Assembly, because he is not. First it says Serbia is a multiethnic state, and then it cancels out everything that is not Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39251	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word is made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39252	Thank you. Article 108 concerning the custody of the order in the session of the National Assembly. You had just heard Bosko Obradovic start his presentation with some quote, of course, trying in such a way to push through the thesis of violence about, let me say, muddying the Serbian police, which we have witnessed was absolutely false in the last days. He started with a quote. Again, I thought of another quote from the great Neegosche. He says, "Whose law lies in the topless, his traces smell of inhumanity. Don't forget, and then it starts on constructiveity, that the Bosko Obradovic cannon came to this parliament, that the cannon was held in this parliament by the attack on the National Assembly president, the citizens should know this, that he took part in the campaign with a topless attack on Goc Zelelac and Maru Dragovic, journalist TV Pink, that he had fought against the citizens on the roads in the Republic of Serbia these days, that he had torn up Serbian police officers, that he had harassed and chikaned the Serbian Patriarch, he and his supporters -- Dragan Gilas, Jeremic and others. Then you can't ask for some false constructiveity and accuse the Serbian police of all this. He put out the the thesis that someone here is ashamed of coming Serbian. Remember that this party bears the name "Serbian Progressive Party", so we cannot be ashamed of this adjective Serbian, since we have an adjective in our name, and the Dvori movement does not. Therefore, I ask you to apply Article 109 next time take away his word and give him a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39253	Thank you. My colleague, you know it is very difficult at a certain point to find a balance between respect for the rights between MPs of the position and MPs of the opposition, and yet on the other hand to keep in mind what is the citizens' interest, which is efficiency in the work of parliament. I said a little while ago that it was very difficult to predict what the MPs would talk about and how they would view the current topics. It was not my intention to interrupt the People's MP, because then again, the thesis would be that we had double standards and double arches to run the session. As you can see, we don't have them. We're trying to find a balance. As far as we're doing, we'll see. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39254	Chairman, first of all, I would point out to Article 27 that the President of the National Assembly is taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, in this case you as chairman. I'm not saying that you've broken him too much, but you haven't worked hard enough, because you should have warned a colleague who spoke before me that what he was saying belonged to the realm of replicas, not to the Rules of Procedure. If you had given him a replica and he said this, it would have been all right, and this is how he abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate it to me, and I can't get the right to replication, because there's no replication on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's the wrong application of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Rule 27. How can I point to this paradox that works here? The ruling SNS when it was in opposition, then everything was allowed. When she came to power, now the opposition must do nothing against the authorities and all violence against the authorities, and in their time it could be done against the authorities whatever you want, and now it can't. I've got your quotes, I've got them there, if necessary. For example, a 30 May 2011 SNS statement -- it is a shame that tractor columns, which have been moving from all over Vojvodina today to protest Belgrade, are preventing strong police blockades along the main roads, while at the same time on the regime media, which unfortunately are funded by all Serbian citizens, cannot hear a word about it. I sign, I sign this SNS statement from 30 May 2011. It's exactly the same today. Except they're in power today. Here you now need, in the framework of the application of the Rules of Procedure, to help us actually have an equal status and to protect us from this political hypocrisy. Something they did at the time of the opposition was the right thing to do, and when we do the same today, it's violence. No, it's not violence, it's an opposition struggle against power, only they forgot what they were doing when they were opposition, so they'd ban us from being an opposition. Now, that can't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39255	Your colleague Obradovic, as you can see, allows you the same treatment as the MPs of the position, allows you to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure as you pointed out. In your explanation, you said you couldn't find a way to make a statement. You just found him. I think you've broken what you pointed at, but here, again, I'm saying, that's another indication that there are no double standards, but it's up to me to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39256	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, 103 in relation to article 108. Mr. Obradovic tried to take over the leadership of the National Assembly. You certainly can't let him do that. As a second thing, he pulled some parallel here between the 2011 blockade and the recent unreported blockade. In 2011, farmers in Vojvodina reported a narrow ride, a ride, a master's trip to Belgrade. Otherwise, this tractor ride is individually allowed, but given the large number of tractors, then the government of Gilas, the famous Gilas Left Hand, around that left hand of the right pocket, banned the tractor from driving to Belgrade. That's a big difference. So she prevented traffic, which she now did as an opposition. Next, the peasants on that roadblock didn't beat anyone up like this man was beaten up, no one. So, this guy was beastly beaten up in Borca. I'll try to find out if it's the same faces that were tied to the money laundering that happened through the fight. Furthermore, none of the leaders went to Preljin to block the intersection. You see this guy, who advertised it, blocking the intersection. Furthermore, none of us farmers, nor did we think of calling for illegal demonstrations, illegal traffic stop, as Marija Janjusevic Nedic did. Here are her photos. Here's a transparency: "I ain't got no fucking gas." That stopped the Serbian patriarch. None of us, out of respect for church, faith, no matter what religious head it is, no religion, no religion, no church community, we wouldn't do it, and they are, and that's a big difference between us and them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39257	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39258	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the SNS has supported protests against the regime of Boris Tadic, but the SNS has never carried out any acts of violence unlike Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and similar to him. Thanks to them, in the village of Belosovac, in Topoli, the woman had a spontaneous abortion because these, who appear to be opposition, blocked the road. For nine years, the woman tried to stay in a different state, went to an artificial insemination programme and because of lunatics, such as Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, the woman had a spontaneous abortion at the scene. Because of roadblocks, those who block roadblocks with auditions, jeeps, BMWs, etc., 500 people in Sopot couldn't receive food in time, people who ate in the soup kitchen. A question about competition is raised, says, were there competitions in public agencies? I am interested, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, was Bosko Obradovic accepted as a spokesman for the City Library in Cačka at the time of Velimir Ilic? At the time of Velimir Ilic and at the time of the Mayor of Cačka was Velimir Stanojevic, after the competition, Boška Obradovic's brother was admitted to the city office for urbanism of the town of Cačka, and after that, he was also employed by his own brother-in-law in a public institution of the town of Cačka? Was it all in public competitions...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39260	... Or was it political friendship with Velimir Ilic? So, it would be good if Bosko Obradovic, before he asks us, answered these questions, because he is constantly talking about some parasitic system, some partocrats, etc., I am very interested in what basis did all these people in his closest environment get a job?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39261	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39262	Is it because they're the most educated, and I can see they're not, because even though a man in Serbian doesn't know accentes in Serbian... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39263	I'm gonna have to interrupt. I guess there'll be time to continue the debate. A colleague of Obradovic, if you please, after asking certain questions to Minister Branko Ruzic, let us first give the word to the minister, and then we will continue the debate. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39264	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic, of course we have never avoided answering questions that are meaningful, and I think yesterday, if I missed some answers, in the later part of the session, I answered a dozen of your questions. I don't know if you've been in the O.R., but it doesn't matter. As for the cooperative you mentioned today, I don't think you did yesterday, but it doesn't matter either, so this is what I said yesterday, it's about the changed concept. It's about areas based on the Constitution and special laws. So, after that, and now there's a unique record of jobs. Changes in sectoral laws will further update these jobs. We've already done 80% of the records or the list of these jobs, so we haven't thrown anything out. As far as this is concerned, it's only a concept, if you understand me well. As far as the head of the municipal administration is concerned, you know that the assembly is a representative body, that the representative body cannot be a second-degree body and that it is a larger executive body and that the chief is elected to the council, is appointed to the council after the competition is conducted, i.e. it is placed on the council after the competition. It's just the difference between a representative and an executive body. It's also a concept, if nothing else. As regards the introduction into order of the subject of an honorary citizen, it is simply applied the same principle as when consent is given, for example. the names of the streets, and consent is given from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, just so that there is no distortion of social interest, that there is no confrontation in the local population, in the case of some controversial historical figures, controversial personalities, etc. etc. So, since you're very principled, it would be your turn to commend, because we're putting something in order, not criticizing. Not entering, of course, personally into who is where so far declared an honorary citizen, so some of these titles have been taken away. As far as the EU is concerned, it is understood that your political programme and the political position that you have, which is open to the anti-European, is your right, but I simply want to know that the strategic goal of the Serbian state is for a number of years to enter the EU, that we have 35 negotiating chapters, that 70% of the application of our legislation with EU legislation refers precisely to units of local self-government, that 21 or 22 chapters are precisely referring to this, largely, dominantly. So it's perfectly logical that it's in the law. Once the anti-European policy is overcome, then you will certainly have the opportunity to initiate a change in these political orientations and legal provisions. As far as passports are concerned, I think it is indisputable that we are all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as what's simple is your manner of being legitimate and a way to gain some political profit, that's the right thing to do. As a minister, I have no intention of getting into the controversy about it, nor does this subject have anything to do with any of the laws that are on the agenda today and yesterday. It is also not the subject of these laws that you have been saying about some alleged allegations of crime, irregularities that must have been in local self-government throughout history because, of course, there are other competent authorities and other laws that regulate this matter. As regards the Law on Public Agencyes, or salaries in public agencies, there are 15 public agencies in the register of employees. Some of the special laws, individual agencies, form. Some coverage of the work that some of the institutions we call agencies have are simply not agencies, but generally I think it's important, and if I'm not mistaken yesterday, you've commended that the competitions are mandatory now. The provisions of the Labour Act which did not provide for the obligation to conduct the competition were applied, but that did not mean that these competitions were not implemented in some cases. Now it's definitely become an imperial norm. As for missing babies, I think it's criminal acts and I don't think it can be the subject of this law, but the government has set up a commission dealing with missing babies. I think that one systemic approach, which the Government has defined, because of these unfortunate cases that have been happening, first of all, to those parents who have lost their children, is something that is a clear orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is simply not politically correct to score political points, and especially when we talk about it, it is easy now to bind all the laws, but we are talking about the Law of Origin Books. Now somebody's gonna think it's got something to do with each other, it really doesn't. Let the commission do its job, let the competent authorities do on the basis of the findings of that commission what is up to them, and at least in some percentage, I would say, not for many years, but for decades, an injustice, because it is a matter of criminal responsibility, not a question of the Law of Parent Books. I hope that, although I am not mistaken, I even think that he is a member of this committee and the Secretary of State from this ministry, so we will certainly have insight and complete information in the very functioning of this commission. I think I've quite clearly answered all your questions and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39265	I thank the ministers. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39266	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for being respectful and answering my questions. Of course, it's hard to agree on most things. I don't belong to any anti-European political movement. I only oppose Serbia's entry into the EU, and that is a big difference. The European Union and Europe are not the same. We Serbs are an ancient, old Christian European people and belong to European civilization. I am absolutely in favour of the community of European peoples and of a nation in which the territorial sovereignty and identity of all peoples would be respected. But, the EU, the Brussels Central Committee orders everyone to live in Europe. It's something else and I'm against it. And it is not just me, but a huge number of Europeans who oppose the Brussels Central Committee both in the West and in all other parts of Europe and the EU itself, in which Eurosceptic political options such as Dvori are increasingly defeated. So be careful when you talk about it. Dvori are not anti-European, Dvori is against Serbia's entry into the EU. That's a huge difference. Furthermore, if you are ashamed to stand in citizenship a word - Serbian, it is your problem as an SPS. How will we as Serbs exercise our right to stand there – Serbian citizenship. So you are now discriminating the majority people in the state of Serbia and that is what is the big problem here. Another problem. You didn't save the pay grade. You didn't save the pay grade. Let me give you an example of our colleagues here at the Dactilographic Bureau. Do you know what salary is here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? From 23,000 to 26,000 dinars, working from morning till tomorrow. They've been here ten hours today doing their job. And finally, why is the subject of opposition in this assembly, not power? Why are political opponents offended? Why are they insulting our families? Why are people who are absent or attacked by ladies like Mrs. Diana Vukomanovic being insulted? So to avoid talking about what you do wrong and to draw public attention to something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39267	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39268	I thank the chairman. I will first express my dissatisfaction that this session has been completely unnecessaryly scheduled within a very short period of time, so, according to my one record, less than 24 hours, but since it's only half an hour, I won't be making a big problem. The bigger problem is that this session is so scheduled. I hope that this will not become a practice, especially now that we are in the work of a parliament called and when the meetings of the name are scheduled – the appointment of extraordinary sessions, in which there are no additions to the agenda, which is clearly the most feared by the ruling majority. With that in mind, I don't understand that emergency sessions are scheduled within 24 hours, or sometimes less. What I want to praise, which is this pamphlet that I found at the MP's club, when I showed up at work, and I think this is a nice practice that all ministries should apply, not just the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. I can't fully agree with the content, because I have some grudges, but I think it's a good practice and that aside from the MPs, who are not a priority, because by nature we're preparing things for sessions and reading materials, I think it's more important that something like this be made public and made available to citizens. Now that I've commended you publicly, I've received information on your social media warrant that this will be available on your website, and I think wherever there's a chance for this, it should be published and shown to the citizens. Citizens need to know what laws are passed in the National Assembly, and that's not just about this set of laws, it's about at all. I'm gonna go the way you wrote this pamphlet of yours. So you first referred to the Law on Local Self-Government and State Self-Government and you referred to a principle that is very close to me and I am very glad that it is in this law, but it is not in the way that it meets the criteria of modern regulation, so that I expect it to be. So you referred to the principle of direct democracy and greater public involvement. I tried to do it myself a few months ago, not knowing that the Department of State and local self-government would do it. You can also see, the site is called "You're asking yourself.rs", with what I've done here, so with my associates and I've analyzed the budget of a municipality, the Zemun municipality is concerned and I've made a parallel between the municipal budget, which was adopted according to the programs and projects that were proposed, with what would be the will of the citizens to do for their money that's in the municipal budget. Of course, programs are immutable, they're fixed, they are, but that's where you'll find, when you look at that site, you'll see that citizens' solutions are far more interesting than there was a solution at the community level. And you'll see that they certainly know how to manage money, only if they know what that money is. This principle of direct democracy cannot be without the principle of transparency. Therefore, the public exercise of public authority must be in line with the exercise of direct democracy, only because it is one continent that one without another cannot. In order to plan some future projects, to invite citizens not only to show you a list of good wishes, not to tell you what they would like to see, you have to tell them what money they have. Then they'll know -- yeah, me for education is a little bit of a million dinars in the municipal budget, I think that, I don't know now, cutting grass in the Zemun municipality shouldn't have cost six million dollars and that education should have shifted the missing difference. So you will essentially involve citizens to respond properly and adequately to these requirements. So, I like the principle and I think it should be more significantly complemented. He mentioned the minister in his replicas to the MPs that it would be resolved by different sublaws. I'd like to see it and personally support it. I'm gonna keep doing what I started, and I hope I can expand it to the territory of the whole country. So, to me, it's not exactly the principle of direct democracy unless there's a principle of transparency. I managed to do this for the 2017 budget. And there's also a problem that you on local self-government sites don't have budget implementation, you don't have the exact items, to the last user, how that money was spent, and then it was a little bit and hard to do all that, but it can be done. So, I've tried and I'm sure it can be made. As for the Law on Local Self-Government, you, among other things, have stated in this pamphlet that there will be an opportunity at the local level to schedule sessions within 24 hours. Here, and just before, announcing that I'm complaining about how we have a problem with holding sessions within 24 hours, sometimes smaller, I'm afraid it's right for the presidents of the assembly, in fact that they can use that right to schedule sessions in a shorter time than they're supposed to. Keep in mind that MPs have expert associates within their MPs clubs and, no matter what such a short time, we in God's power are able to prepare ourselves for the sessions. Councilors in local congregations do not have the privilege. When you schedule a session with the local council within 24 hours, and for example, the budget debates, they simply cannot do so. We'll see in December, let's say we put the Department of State and Local Self-Government on the test soon, and see if there was any abuse by the President of the Assembly. I sincerely hope it doesn't come to that. One thing I would refer to, and the same is the Law on Local Self-Government, which is - the number of local officials will depend on the number of residents of the municipality or city. Very commendable. I'll look back at the Zemun municipality, it's my community, and I've got a great example here. So, you in the municipality of Zemun, which has 168 thousand residents according to the 2011 census, you have the president of the municipality who was elected, the burden goes to his biography which is not great, it's quite romantic in the public, he had the exclusive right to choose five assistants for his cabinet, among which you have: Milorad Radulovic, who is a catering technician, who is supposed to be in this law, just to read exactly how the item stands, here, says that the assistants should propose projects and make up opinions on issues that are relevant to development in areas for which other tasks are set up and done on the orders of the president of the municipality. So he's simply not qualified, I'm just giving you one example of a municipality in Serbia, he's simply not qualified to carry out what's in his jurisdiction. And he's not the only one, because of the five assistants, we have at least one such person, the other who was, it seems to me that Topalovic, the driver of the former president of the state. So, I don't know if they have the qualifications they need to deal with the powers they're described in the law? I'm afraid we'll only limit their number of assistants, but we didn't make them choose those assistants by their expertise. So they have that right, it says they can use it, but then they should also, if nothing else, respect it for moral reasons and respect it. Speaking now of local congregations, my colleague spoke about it and, therefore, we will today, i.e. these days to vote a law that says that if national minorities are represented by 2% in the general population, they will be able to refer to the language of the national minority they belong to. It is much more significant that these privileges have national minorities in local congregations and that the provision of this member is that it is important to belong to a national minority whose number in the local self-government unit crosses 2% according to the last census. So you will be able to, someone mentioned here by colleagues, in the municipality of Stara Paz, that you have a national minority, because it naturally exists there, which can speak in its own language, as well as in the congregation in Pancheva and in many other municipalities where for this real need there is. I'm going back to the Home Book Act now. I can commend what my colleague LJupka Mihajlovska also said about changing the parent number, in case people who change sex, when they change gender, have the need to change the parent number. And, really, there's one gap, because gender change isn't a short process, it just takes at least two years, and there's one serious gap, when people who are in a transfer can't really regulate their status. There's another trap here, and it's not just people who've had medical procedures, surgical procedures changed their sex, there's people who naturally feel like members of the other sex, and they've never performed surgery, and in that sense, they're going to have a problem with the parent number. Here in the Assembly, we organized the i.e. The female parliamentary network organized, one day at a time with a member of the public when representatives of different NGOs came to us, then I had the opportunity to talk to Professor Dr Zorica Mrčević, who said about this problem that he had been dealing with this topic for many years, and indeed there are, therefore, persons who are in a transfer, are under hormonal therapy for example, and they do not want to perform surgery, feel like persons of the other sex and have the characteristics of the other sex, and at the same time they cannot have it in their home numbers. In the long term, this can be solved, by not having, for example, the home number of citizens, but by some other identification number, such as, let's say, in America, it's solved with a "Social Security Number" or otherwise to be solved in order to avoid this problem. Until then, I think we should make sublaws a better solution for a period like this. As for employment, therefore, the laws concerning public competition in public agencies, I would say, should there really be public competitions and knowledge checks. We had a situation today and a question of what awaits us all, given the most false diplomas we are, unfortunately, exposed to. The question is, what kind of personnel are we expecting today-to-morrow at public agencies? However, there is one, that we are not dealing with this topic now, because it is not the topic of debate. So there's another trap, and that's that people who would like to, who are qualified to do some business in public agencies, the competition is too complicated. So he can be a lot simpler than he is on the website now. So these people don't fly to Mars, they need to work here in Serbia and their process of applying to work can be significantly simplified. Another thing, advertising only in the "Official Messenger" or on ministry websites, or where competitions have been advertised so far, could spread to much more commercially, to say websites, such as Infostud, and then you would have a better flow of personnel who are qualified to apply. So I don't believe that in the ministry's budget, for example, the state administration and local self-government, is a major item, that it can't, when there's a need to hire new people, pay for a simple ad, say Infostud, and then really expects a larger number of candidates, because the official messenger himself and the ministry site is insufficient. As for the Law of Territorial Organization, I will return to Zemun. First, I will commend my colleagues who have proposed this law, really need to work on decentralisation, but not only by resolving the status of local self-government, so we can rename them from the municipality to the city or give them the status of the municipality, but that decentralisation must rest first on increasing funding at the level of local self-government. I would like, therefore, to be at the moment in which I am writing a proposal to amend and supplement this law, to wait for this one to be adopted, so that it may be complete, so I will propose the same thing for Zemun. In 1934, Zemun was administratively attached to Belgrade through the Sava Bridge, until then and indeed became part of Belgrade after World War II. So before that was the city, now has the status of the municipality, and large settlements such as Zemun Polje, Ugrinovci, Batajnica, which have a large number of inhabitants, have the need to be municipalities, unfortunately they are not. I hope, since I expect the ruling majority to support this law and I will support it myself, I expect that today-to-morrow my bill of law will come to a good will on the other hand and that we will succeed from Zemun to get one city, what it used to be. As for the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, I think absolutely all the representatives of the opposition have said everything they have. I can only repeat that she is burdened with various affairs, such as the purchase of an apartment by "Telecoma of Serbia", i.e. companies where she once worked, that she used and abused an official car for the purposes of members of her family, that she had a suspicious doctorate and lack of protection for the users of banking services. One thing I got from the outside world is that it's positive, and that's a stable course. Since one positive thing cannot overcome the affairs she has, unfortunately, on her own burden, we will not support her choice in this regard. As for the motion for a decision on the election of the president of the courts, not entering the proposed candidates, my colleague started the topic, lack of time and was interrupted, we worry about what the efficiency of judges in Serbia is, given that in the report on Serbia's progress there is one information that says that the European Commission's report on the efficiency of the judiciary and that the European average of 21 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, and according to the annual report on the work of the courts, the High Court of Cassation stated that we have as many as 37 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, which is 43% more than the European average. We wonder if there is a need to have so many judges since we are not 43% more effective than the European average practically. So some laws are correct for us, some are not, and that's how we're going to vote in the voting day. Once again, this should continue and go towards the citizens, not to the MPs, and I hope that the principle of direct democracy will be met with the principle of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39269	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39270	Thank you. Thank you for these constructive criticisms and, of course, praises. Just one thing we obviously didn't understand each other about. So, so far, the call time, the earliest time to call the Assembly's sessions, has been zero. Now we've introduced 24 hours. So, under 24 hours, he can't, from 24 hours away. So you didn't understand that part, so there's been these abuses before. That's exactly why we introduced that provision. As far as the unique number of citizens is concerned, it is within the jurisdiction of the MUP and the MUP has its own regulations to regulate the issue. As regards the moment considered relevant for the gender change, it is indeed not subject to the regulation of the Law on Parent Books, it is primarily related to the domain of medicine and, of course, it is intended to adopt a sublaw. The law enters into force, as I said today, on January 1, 2019. We will format that form together with the Ministry of Health and, of course, the moment the competent doctor signs that form, it is possible for the parent to do his part of the job. So, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39271	I thank Minister Ruzic. The word is proposed by the National MP, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39272	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, I will not be obliged to, here is the end of a principle debate on the agenda, including the law passed by fellow Members and I, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which will officially become cities after the adoption of this bill. I express my satisfaction that I have heard a lot of good statements and many colleagues have supported this initiative in their presentations. Bor is a modern city, anyone who hasn't been to Bora, I invite him to visit him. Bor's got a new development chance. Soon we will open a new mine where thousands of people will work. It's a big project for our city. We develop in every sense, we develop in terms of tourism. So it would be my pleasure for anyone who hasn't come to see the cocoa Bor looks like, to come visit him. We will continue to debate the amendments, but based on what we heard in the principle debate, it is clear that the initiative is well accepted by fellow MPs. I have to thank the people who are actually responsible for the greatest support I have received in all of this, which is Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and Mrs. Ana Brnabic, because without their support this initiative would not be on the agenda today. I am glad that the first statesmen to respect eastern Serbia, because eastern Serbia has been neglected for decades, never has any statesman respected it in any way. Now that's changed. We expect new investments today, we can hope for development and it is really impossible not to thank the people who are responsible for it. Once again, I thank all the colleagues who supported this initiative, thank the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government for technically following this well, and once again I call on all those who may still be having second thoughts about supporting this initiative in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39273	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that God punished those who are least guilty. The city and ice hit Serbia, probably because these duvets and cabbages blocked the patriarch. God has shown his anger, and he will show our citizens. It is indisputable that in 2012, we found a politically decapitated country. If Radulovic hadn't come back, this one from Enough, so it's over, they've got two groups now, I guess I don't know what we'd be doing. The state was decapitated politically, territorialally broken, by those who spent 3.5m euros as foreign ministers for five years of sausages to defend the state and worked on wild construction of the wild state of Kosovo, what we consider to be Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province. The state was economically powerless, economically devastated, socially unsustainable, thus, the main product was debt, bonds, etc. It wasn't from the earner, it was from the man in charge. An abandoned and abandoned state, militaryly powerless, not neutral, but neutral, with one battery-free aircraft. What were national minorities? By my estimate, if I'm not mistaken, they were about as hostages of the ruling majority, who wanted to have an exclusive right to their votes and nothing else. Their problems have not been solved. I can, as a Messenger of the people, apologize to them in my name for that time, for those who are worse than them used them. So, these millionaires who robbed both minorities and the majority, robbed millions of people, made public jobs out of government functions, to become millionaires, advertisers, frequencies, air and fog, they're guilty of deficits in local self-government. Local self-government, it was a hiducia, you send a militia, you take over, the minister of what they call it, little Djokica, takes the signature, all right, they throw us out like suitcases from the Assembly. Those times are fortunately behind us. There was someone who wanted to arrange for the state, not just to rule it. What do we say about the National Bank? Low inflation, solid rate, stronger foreign exchange reserves, stronger foreign savings, we have no problem at all, stronger dinar savings, investments, coverage of imports-exports has increased, therefore, this amount of money that is now larger covers all our foreign reserves and covers the possibility of growth of the course, so the dinar is growing. The economy is recovering. We're like farmers who smell some of them, they said literally so, we're the virtues of this country. Karadjorje holds three fingers like this, at the entrance, look at it, and every day I think he's asking me if I'm guarding the state. We as the virtues of the state and the first bearers of state thought, which we have created a modern state, I tell you all – don't destroy this house that we have created over our heads, we have made. We can come up, we can survive, we can work it out, but don't let our alien take it down. We peasants want our country what a good host wants for his people, for the quality of life to be equal to our environment, to get to those who are far more developed than we are. That's what we want. We simple peasants who stink of those over there, but our plates full of food don't stink, what do we want? We believe that the present generation is not everything, that it is not a people, that the people are made up of the former generation and the future. We've inherited this country since the former generation, they've left it to us, they've paid it with their lives, their blood, their sweat, their construction, in impossible conditions, and it's up to us to leave the country we inherited from our ancestors, if not in the same condition, even in a better state, to leave it to our descendants. I am not defending power, I will never defend it, I am defending the state of Serbia and its right to exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39275	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39276	You can punish me better for my loyalty to the state than reward me for treason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39277	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the mandated representative of SNS National MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39278	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, at the end of the debate that we can say that the laws you have proposed and which have been the subject of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the subject of sessions proposed by the National Assembly have the support of all parties in parliament. There may be some details that don't quite agree, but obviously there's one good thing, which is that there are no essential criticisms on the topic of the Law on Local Self-Government, which is very important. This means that the Serbian government has recognised the needs of local self-government and citizens of these cities and municipalities that are now going to the polls and voting for these local officials. What is important today to say, in the end, is that in the debate on President Aleksandar Vukic's proposal for governor of the NBS, for the new mandate of Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, all those fictions and attempts to personally degrade this candidate simply do not stand. The only truth is that indeed Mrs Tabakovic has three good and educated children, and everything else is being put on her back, precisely because she encountered great problems in 2012, and apparently in one successful way she managed to deal with them and solve them one by one, because now we couldn't talk about inflation that was 12.9%, and now it's 2%, like all developed European countries. We could not talk about macroeconomic stability, the stability of the exchange rate, the increase of foreign reserves, the reduction of interest rates in loans placed on Serbian citizens and the resolution of disputed loans that the state had and which were practically captured by a complete system of functioning of the state of the Republic of Serbia, including the budget. Then when questions are asked about who is protecting the importing, or export lobby, so the fact that the doubled exports of the Republic of Serbia over the last four years are precisely the reason why it should be said that the results of the National Bank and the economic measures implemented and fiscal consolidation are precisely that our exports are indeed doubled, that many factories are open, that imports are reduced. And that story about someone protecting the importers doesn't stand at all. It's precisely because the results show the exact opposite. The results show that someone introduced loans in Switzerland, that the state cheated on citizens before 2012 and captured 20,000 users with such unfavourable loans. What the NBS can only work on, it's making banks solve problems with these citizens. What couldn't be solved goes to court dispute. The litigation is the one that should end up in favour of the citizens of Serbia, and we are all aware of that here and we want it to really benefit the citizens who have raised these loans. If the NBS were to protect those 20,000 users, it would have to cancel all other credit users, whether they're in euros or in dinars, because then you break that rule. It is therefore the courts that resolve disputes between natural and legal persons, not the state, because it would be wrong for the Republic of Serbia's budget to simply give support to 20,000 citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39279	Thank you, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39280	In the end, I will say that the SNS will support the election of the governors of the NBS and the vice governor, with pleasure, and all candidates for the Anti-Corruption Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-13-0.u39281	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 14 of the agenda. We continue our work on Friday, June 15, 2018, with a start at 10.00 hours, a debate on amendments. Thank you.
