ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposals for acts on the agenda as soon as possible. With this session's call, there is a draft agenda for the session. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on the Central Record of Real Owners. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 127, against – no one, with abstentions – has. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda a draft law on special conditions for the realisation of housing projects for members of the security forces. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on limiting the availability of assets in order to prevent terrorism. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 19 MPs for – 131 against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A national MP, Maja Gojkovic, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO bomb investigation committee in 1999, according to Serbia's citizens' health, as well as an environmental impact, with special reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The session will be led by Vice President George for my meeting with the Vice President of the Svekine National Congress.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35251	The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law confirming the loan agreement, a project to support state-owned financial institutions between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 April 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Second programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 April 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who did not vote with 157 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law amending the Law on extraparnical procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for 156 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Law on Public Registration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for 156 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2016. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against one, no one, abstentioned—no one voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one, no one, voted 157 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for – six, against – 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2017. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 151 people's messenger for six. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad in connection with the privatisation of ATP Vojvodina and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for—four against—for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2018. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted by 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2017. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who submitted their lives to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016, were killed. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35252	For the third year, we are already proposing a survey committee to determine all the facts about the tragedy that took place on March 13th, when the order of the then Defence Minister carried out a rescue mission "Helicopter" by saving the baby that was unable to be transported by the vehicle, due to the dive. They never landed alive at the VMA, nor at the airport "Nikola Tesla", and what we learned from the investigation by the General Staff, from an independent investigation, is a variety of information that clearly shows that the order for the "Helicopter" mission went out of subordination, that the minister gave the order orally, that there were serious failures to work. We also have two disciplinary sentences for two generals who couldn't complain. We lack two key answers to two key questions -- from whom did the defence minister receive information that the necessary rescue mission "Helicopter" was needed, on what grounds did he or she order the mission to be carried out orally? The second question - who changed the flight plan during the summer and how did they communicate with private mobile phones? Why is this information important? Because after the tragedy and death, seven people in a helicopter in public appeared the first slander of pilot Omer Mehic. Secondly, there have been monstrous explanations as to why an investigation is being sought at at all. How can you not have the heart to want to save one child and because this amount of irresponsibility in the description of the tragic death of seven people in a helicopter of the paradigm of what is considered to be haughtiness, self-will and mockery and procedures within the Ministry of Defence and the rule of law in general? That is why our proposal for the education of the polling committee is necessary, and when this National Assembly will in any session have a committee of inquiry chaired by the opposition, whoever the ruling majority, who will identify in detail who is responsible for the deaths of seven people. All we can hear from the subsequent information in public can be put into one single sentence, as a replica from the famous film "The Father on the Official Way", and that is a sentence which I will ask as a question to all participants and now in the conspiracy of silence, which in any way is responsible for the rescue helicopter mission, and the question is - do you have to sleep? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35253	Thank you, colleague Komic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 144 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 153 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 151 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of the Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin Cevdet Ajaz to Turkey, as well as the establishment of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 151 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 151 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Marjanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Vesna Marjanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 151 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2018. Does MP Dragoljub Micunovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the winding-up procedure "Such Insurance", which he submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2017. Does MP Veroljub Stevanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted by 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 July 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by a messenger of 151 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35254	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Cultural Goods. In a situation where we adopt here every day at each session, this will be the same as one of those sessions, 20 and 30 new laws or amendments and additions to existing laws, I can tell you that the Law on Cultural Goods in Serbia has been in motion since 1995, and that no one has thought to change it, and I don't think anyone can think of reading it, or looking at it, or even knowing it exists. I have voiced my opinion several times that Serbia is the worst country in the world in its attitude towards cultural goods. Some believe this is my opinion too harsh, but unfortunately, I can see for myself every day. We have countless examples, destruction, cultural heritage damage in Serbia. I think we're all well aware that this is something that happens every day. What I'm interested in, and I don't think I've ever heard of anything like this is -- has anyone ever answered in Serbia for destroying any cultural good, whether it's just an act of act, say, destruction, damage, theft? It is no wonder in Serbia that you hear that he disappeared, for example, an object, a chandelier of precious, invaluable values from a building or any cultural good, or that it happens by mishandling these cultural goods. I know that the status of cultural goods in Serbia itself is very problematic and that this process of identifying what it is and what is not in Serbia is very slow and that almost does not happen at all, but, as I said, this law itself is almost never applied even though it exists. If we were to, say, apply ourselves, then we could make sure that someone who, for example, is signed in a fresco or anywhere where a cultural good is damaged can pay a fine of, say, 70 or 80 dinars, if such a punishment is charged, which means that practically nothing is sanctioned, and I ask you to tell me, if you know that there are opposite examples, destruction of cultural goods in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35255	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted for – 11 against – 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35256	Thank you. Last year, when we discussed here at a session extensively on new laws on basic, medium and high education, I submitted the amendment, then we still had the opportunity, which unfortunately we do not have any more practical amendments and to explain our opinion on which a law should be complemented, then I submitted an amendment that suggested that Serbia's secondary education become mandatory. Not only is this in line with all the recommendations Serbia receives and not only is it introduced but in some countries in the environment, but also on that occasion many MPs have practically all MPs of the opposition and almost all MPs of the ruling majority expressed their opinion that the proposal is good. I've had, I can say, the pleasure of even hearing later from the minister on several occasions to say in this house and elsewhere that he thinks this proposal will actually be adopted. Of course, not as my proposal, but as Serbia intends to introduce mandatory secondary education. Since the ruling majority usually expresses the opinion that all the proposals that come from the opposition are nebulous, bad, stupid, I have heard various comments for these months and years, as I sit here, and I have heard many times the opinion that no good proposal has come from the opposition, I believe that, not only for this proposal, but for many other proposals that have come from the opposition, it is not, because for many of these proposals, and this is how I have cited, I have heard of this proposal many times, not only that it is good, but that it is something that Serbia will do in some foreseeable future. Please make a serious precedent in this assembly, to adopt this proposal, and to put on the agenda a debate on Serbia's need to introduce compulsory secondary education. If you do not want to do this, I think you should clearly show that it is not Serbia's most important well-being, but that the ruling majority is considering the well-being of its party and that your party and party are above the state and above the well-being of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35257	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 146 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35258	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to sacrifice a few seconds because the previous speaker or speaker said that sometimes they have a chance to say something, etc. The impression is that the opposition has been discriminated against. Because of the citizens, I have to get the information out. To this day, opposition MPs have 6,698 announcements, almost 7,000. If some of them hadn't called, maybe they'd have been better off in the election, maybe they'd have been quiet. Those who don't have something particularly big to say, sometimes it's better to keep your mouth shut. Seventy-six point one call to the Rules of Procedure. The government, parties supporting the ruling majority of 4,696 reports. So, two thousand less, even though there's a hundred and sixty-something. Addresses by letter 29, three times less. So they have three times as many calls and they want to say they're being discriminated against. As far as the Guardian of Citizens is concerned, a citizen was finally found who he protected, protecting himself. The Protector and Protector is a very dangerous man. So, the man the media claim based on forensic reports with gunpowder on their hands threatens to shoot the President of the Republic. This man, who, while being the Protector of the Citizens or the Protector, who was protected, who was walking the house during work hours, is a very dangerous man for another reason, he threatens to wipe out the registered parties. He, the leader of an unregistered political party, associations of citizens who smuggle as a political party to avoid financial control of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because citizens' associations do not subject to that kind of control, he threatens registered political parties to delete them from the register. In addition, protects Sasa Jankovic, a former leftist, a former official of Milosevic's regime, received from the British Embassy, along with the Trustee 100,000 euros or 80,000 pounds for the construction of the Alert Act model. The model of the law was bad, 100,000 euros or 80,000 pounds were spent by protecting citizens, instead of protecting citizens, becoming involved in politics and attacking the state leadership from positions he was supposed to protect the citizens from, and in fact only protecting himself and his privileges and the 100,000 euros he received from the British, as Simovic did, to mine his own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35259	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 145 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have been asking for over a decade how can Serbia survive without GMOs? We felt that the unanimous adoption of a declaration on GMOs prohibiting imports, processing, traffic and cultivation of GMOs and products from GMOs in Serbia, which is in accordance with the applicable Law on genetically modified organisms, in 136 municipalities by over 6,000 council members enough to bring one roof declaration here in the National Assembly to support such a law that is in force. However, the opinion of the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave a negative suggestion for the adoption of this roof declaration, which is identical entirely to the declarations adopted in 136 municipalities, except for one member who prescribes the obligation of the National Assembly to call a referendum to state whether or not they are for or against imports, cultivation, processing and traffic of GMOs. According to the information available to me from the other day, there is a new law on genetically modified organisms which is likely to liberalise at least the market for the import and transport of GMOs and products from GMOs, or at least products from GMOs, by emergency procedure and without public debate, which would be a truly unacceptable situation. That is why I urge the MPs to support this proposal for a declaration, because it is in Serbia's interest, because we have an obligation to preserve the land of our ancestors, for our children, without GMOs. We have an obligation to protect our children from being fed well, and we have an obligation to protect our farmers who will receive extremely unfair competition from any changes to the GMO law. Therefore, on Saturday, May 19th, in a number of cities, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Paracin, Kragujevac, Prijelje, we organise gatherings for Serbia without GMOs and I urge all citizens to join in order to support this declaration as well. I appeal once again to the MPs, that this time we really think about whether our children have the right to eat healthy and to realize that if we don't know who the father is, the food in the plate is the mother of all diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35261	Thank you, Professor Chevarlic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 154 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 154 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 154 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Non-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 154 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to identify the facts and circumstances and to consider the situation in which the project "Belgrade on Water" was currently in place, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 26 February 2018. Does National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that really this survey committee should be formed, because the "Belgrade on Water" project is a project that has been followed by major controversy from the very beginning. First of all, the project was declared by the profession, the construction profession was declared, the Academy of Sciences declared itself, the Academy of Architecture. However, the construction was continued. Of course, all those lawyers who were against the adoption of leks specialis, because Lex specialis is brought only if it is something of a really great national interest, and you can see why a commercial housing complex, such as "Belgrade on Water", would be of special national interest. We have complexes like this in Cairo, and we have in Kuala Lumpur. However, look online, no Lex specialis was brought anywhere, and for "Belgrade on Water" it was brought. Although this is a public project of national importance, we do not know until the end of who the investor is, we have not seen which bank is guaranteed, and the feasibility studies are completely inaccessible. No infrastructure solved either. The project "Belgrade on Water" and the need to set up a survey committee for it is now under way, especially with the story that Mr. Sinisa Mali will become the new finance minister, and we know that it has been 25 months since the collapse in Hercegovakia, which is related to the project "Belgrade on Water", and that the country's president himself, and the then prime minister, said the city's top was responsible for this. Until these matters are resolved, and I think the committee of inquiry is the most invited to resolve them, and tomorrow's election by the minister in the government will be shadowed and questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35263	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and Storm, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, democracy isn't just about saying what you want, but sometimes you have to listen to what you don't want, but obviously the lady caught the line, the parliament was open, she caught the line, and when she heard she was going to talk about it, she bravely wiped out. Citation by Sande Raskovic Ivić of "Politicals", not to be some tabloid: "I will not claim that Srebrenica was like the Storm a humanitarian action". So for her, the Storm is a humanitarian action. "The Srebrenica was a crime, it was a genocide. “ So that’s what Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who is sitting here with us in parliament and who has broken a document of the National Assembly, in whose creation it seems to me that she was involved. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appreciate that she is a multiparty figure, I just don't know if Vuk Jeremic is against the EU or whether she is Sanda Raskovic for the EU. But whether she is the alleged patriotic leader of the opposition, for or against the EU, this cannot be tolerated. I insist on this committee of inquiry and believe that one day it will be established. In the storm, 1852 people were killed and missing, and 1200 of them were civilians. Over 60 years old was 908. The woman was 543 and there were nine children. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a list of killed and missing Serbs, only 930 of whom are buried, and others are still wanted. Family hopes at least they'll get their bones. 250,000 people were expelled. These aren't exiled, these are dead. So 908 people are over 60 years old. She knew what she was going to say, she ran away. On the aside that she took 500,000 dinars from Kosovo and Metohija when she registered on a fat salary while she was at Micun's Democratic Centre, she now took the right to those who were not expelled, those who were killed, who failed to escape, those who were slaughtered, those who were shot, those who were over 60 years old, took the right to call it a humanitarian action. You ladies and gentlemen can think any way you want, but this can't be tolerated. I insist, and I suggest that Vuk Jeremic be too, that the polling committee on works and Sundays be established by Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35265	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight, and there is no vote of 146 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, the president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice", which took place in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic on 5 March 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, and 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there is no vote of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there is no vote of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Gordan Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Gordan Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, but 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Gordan Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, but 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Gordan Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is one of the two draft laws that I have been proposing for several sessions and how the time has passed from session to session, it appears several factors both external and internal which give the right to vote these laws. I will talk more about it in the proposal of this next law, and here the point is to change the number of members of the board of directors, who are by changing the Law on PIO by 21, as many as there were then, has been reduced to number seven, and so that of those seven members of the four members gives direct government, one member is from the insurance order on a proposal from the Representative Union established at the level of the Republic, one member from the ranks of employers, one member from the order of users of the right to propose a pensioner association. In this way, in fact, when the Law on the Way of Pensions has been amended and the Interim Law, which has been passed for so many years, has been allowed for such a law to be passed and voted on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is possible for these seven members, four of whom are directly appointed by the government as a whole, to say the contingent of the right of governance to retain the government, or that the Government is working according to its own opinion, and to the damages of the oldest and I would say the most vulnerable part of our country's population. In that sense, the Serbian Dvori movement has suggested that we change the number of board members, not to return it to the previous 21st one, but to the board of directors now have 15 members, with five members being from the line of beneficiaries of the right, so five from the ranks of the pensioner, five members from the insurance company on a proposal from the Representative Union, two members from the employer's office, one member from the ministry, so a member from the ministry to be appointed by the Government, and we believe that this way the established board could better protect the rights of the pensioner and make it impossible, what unfortunately occurred when it came about, and what I will talk about in the proposal of the next law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35267	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine, none of the Messengers of the people voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Arrangement of Pension Payments, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To continue what I was just beginning to say and to explain what are the new external and internal factors that give for the right of us what law we are proposing, that what is temporary, and look at it is already temporary over 40 months and it is not limited how long it will take, to return to the previous state. These days, we are witnessing that, otherwise, Serbia's Dvora movement, one not so dear, that I do not use a stricter word, an organisation, the IMF in one of its many visits and the regulation of the financial system of the Serbian state, and this and such an international fund has suggested that what the Serbian movement Dveri is proposing, and what is evident is stealing Serbia's oldest and direct damage both to them and to their offspring, be restored to this situation of the former. Of course, immediately afterwards, Mr. President of the State, who explained that, if it were to be heard, there would be damage to a large number of pensioners, so that returning to the previous level would again harm the budget, and it was also explained that the largest number of pensioners in the period from that temporary measure, which I repeat, lasts for four years, has to this day more pensions than it does at that moment. Of course, that may be true, but we are forgetting one very important fact about how much money the oldest citizens of the Serbian state were taken during that period. So, we've been doing analyses, and I've been talking about them, depending on the amount of retirement when the 20% to 25% pensions were cut, those who were the bearers of the largest pensions, and I repeat, the pension obtained was the right to come as a product of long-term labor, and to this day more than 200 thousand dinars were taken. What has been given on two occasions in terms of some symbolic aid of five thousand is really funny, and if we have in mind statements by both the prime minister and the government, which this parliament, however, voted on by the assembly majority, its statements that the Serbian state budget is never more full, that all the parameters and indicators of financial stability are extremely favourable to us, there are several more reasons for this and this proposal to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35269	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the call of presidential elections until the day of publication of the provisional results of the elections at processed 99.9% of polling stations, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesovic, 20 April 2017. Does MP Srdjan Nogo want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the 2016 election process, from the date of the schedule of the Republic elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesovic, 14 November 2016. Does MP Srdjan Nogo want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the event during the implementation of elections for the Council of the City of Belgrade Committee held on 4 March 2018, from the day of the call to the date of publication of the final results, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović, 22 March 2018. Does MP Srdjan Nogo want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare, six, against none of the abstentions—no one voted 146 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstention of the Messengers of 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 May 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has ever voted for 152 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 153 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Real Estates, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP Kosovo and Metohija, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, Dr. Dragan Vesović, Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic, 15 September 2017. Does MP Zoran Radojićic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Starting with the state tradition of the Serbian people and its historical right to the AP KiM as an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, given that the AP KiM is a state, therefore, our cultural and historical, spiritual headquarters of the Republic of Serbia, and since after the illegal and illegal aggression of NATO to the SRJ which is the legal predecessor of the Republic of Serbia and the occupation of the work of its state territory, our highest national goal should be the physical return of its state authorities and institutions in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Especially in the light of the fact that without the physical return of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to the territory of KIM, it is not possible to implement a constitutional standard on the uniform legal order applicable to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the AP KiM, relying on the binding content of international acts and this Protocol on the distinction between the Kingdom of SHS, i.e. the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Albania, or the Kingdom of Albania since 1926, the Convention on the maintenance and renewal of border stones, small pyramids and stakes at the border of 1929, the Charter of the UN and the Helsinki Final Act of UN Resolution 1244, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So we suggest that the National Assembly adopt the resolution of the following content. I'll just mention some of the points. At the first point, the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international public law, does not recognise the Constitution and the will of citizens and will never recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence by illegal authorities in Pristina. In the second point -- AP KiM is an integral, inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia currently under occupation, which should be notified to the international public without delay without delay. No citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who is in public office, has the right to sign a binding document that will alienate the legal AP KIM as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, any formal recognition of a self-proclaimed state to illegal authorities in Pristina, would be a permanent loss of the headquarters of Serbian statehood and the cultural historical identity of the Serbian people. The government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to suspend any kind of communication and negotiations in Brussels with representatives of Pristina's illegal authorities led by the EU's intermediation. The European Union whose leading states have committed aggression against the SRJ, whose armed forces are the backbones of occupation troops in the KIM territory, cannot possibly be a mediator in the negotiations on Kosovo, therefore, between Belgrade and Pristina.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35271	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against none, the abstentioned, no one voted 145 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – the proposal for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities of the deceased for the country, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, Dr. Dragan Vesovic, 16 October 2017. Does MP Zoran Radojićic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35272	Thank you, Chairman. Given the fact that the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, that through our history in the ranks of the Serb army, many non-Serb nationalities, which have therefore been mentioned in particular, stood out for their courage, by their sacrifice, will mention some of the wars, the First, the Second Balkan War, the First World War, the Second World War, and, of course, all the defensive country wars, beginning in 1991 to 1999, we consider it extremely relevant that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia's non-Serb nationality and killed for the country. At the first point, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expressed special respect and honour for all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives fighting wars on the side of the Serbian state. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia calls on the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia to honor these heroes by raising monuments that would mark their contribution to the fight for the freedom of our common country. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposes that a complete list of all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives in the country wars be drawn up, so that their names are not forgotten. In the fourth point, the National Assembly proposes to set a special day for the protectors of country and state unity as a state holiday that would mark the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. The reasons, therefore, for the adoption of this declaration, we would particularly like to draw attention to domestic but also to the world public, to the absence of any type of xenophobia, to the absence of any kind of intolerance, to chauvinism, to national intolerance, therefore, to the majority of the Serbian people towards non-Serb peoples through examples and to honor many members of the Serbian army of non-Serb nationality. It is evident that in the Balkan wars First, Second, First World, Second World and Homeland Wars from 1991 to 1999, all these brave people fought, and we believe that by adopting a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia, one step is to pay attention to this topic, so that through the legislative activities of the National Assembly and the efforts of the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, a special state holiday called "The Day of Protectors of Homeland and State Unity".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35273	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven, and there is no one who has ever voted 146 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has voted for 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the bill on draft law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstention for two peoples, against them; 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has voted for 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Ivan Kostic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović, 14 September 2017. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35274	Dear People's MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is approaching June 28th, Vidovdan, which was officially declared Diaspora Day. Unfortunately, however, for the fifth year in a row, we will not have a Serbian diaspora assembly in the region, together with representatives of all state institutions. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to talk to a fellow MP who tried to convince me that the state of Serbia, the president and its most important institutions are helping Serbs in the region, and I want to say that I welcome any assistance that Serbs from the region are getting. It was about helping Serbs in Herzegovina, and I believe that such aids are extremely important at the moment in which the Serbian people are located. However, I want to say and I tried to tell him that the state of Serbia through its institutions and through the powers it has under the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region does not do what it should do. That's why I want to say here in front of the citizens of Serbia, in front of the diaspora people from the region, who have been watching the Serbian Parliament, that for four years now, there has been very little help from state institutions in matters that can be resolved through the 2009 Diaspora Act. I'd like to say that the Diaspora Administration, unfortunately, despite many attempts to appoint a director, has not been appointed for nearly three years, three and a half years. We said that the Diaspora Assembly has been inoperative for four years, and surely this year for Vidovdan it will not be held here in the Assembly. Also, the Diaspora Law provides the possibility of forming a council for Serbs in the region, whose members are the president of the state, prime minister and certain ministers in charge of diaspora affairs, i.e. Serbs in the region. That advice doesn't exist. The budget fund for the diaspora and Serbs in the region that exists under the law does not exist and thus through state institutions, through competent ministries, Serbs in the region and diaspora do not receive assistance that is provided through the law. That's why I want to say here that we don't need to be helped selectively for certain groups and communities in the region and diaspora. So we need concrete assistance from the state of Serbia, Serbs in the region and diaspora through state institutions and through the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region that makes it possible. We've been here a few times and criticized and presented when there was a budget session and thank God some things were done. What we proposed to this declaration, to establish consular departments and to establish schools in front of these departments, was done in Austria. That is why I call once again on this declaration to be put on the agenda and to be adopted by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35275	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Ivan Kostic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a resolution on NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović, 14 November 2016. Does the MP, Mr. Ivan Kostic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35276	Not a month goes by without the state summit of the Republic of Croatia doing something that can be freely referred to by the resuscitation of neo-fascism and neo-Nonearism in modern Europe. We had opportunities a few days ago in Bleiburg to see a large part of the state summit of the Republic of Croatia that he attended the ceremony and that he thus supported all fascist structures in the Republic of Serbia that glorify the constitution and which automatically refers to the extremely difficult position of the Serbian people who can experience again what he experienced in 1941 and 1995. Last time I spoke of a serious resolution adopted by the UN Human Rights Committee since 17.11.2016, and I want to repeat here how important this thing is and how relevant this thing is in modern Europe, which is also extremely important for our people's position. So, in 2016, the UN Human Rights Committee adopted on a proposal from Russia a resolution on the suppression of the glorism, neonacism and other practices that promote modern forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance. On a proposal from Russia, the resolution was adopted with 131 votes for, 48 abstentions and three against. It is important to stress that they were against America, Ukraine and the state of Palau. So the UN adopts a resolution on neo-Naziism and neo-fascism in the modern world. German Bundestag 2016 with 630 votes for, one abstention and one against, adopts the Declaration of Crimes against Armenian and other Christian peoples in 1915, and the Serbian parliament cannot adopt a declaration or resolution on the death of our people in World War II. I really don't understand why this point isn't put on the agenda. This is neither the proposal nor the resolution of the Serbian Dvora Movement, several organisations and parliamentary groups have already submitted this. It's also reached the Prime Minister, and it's reached the Foreign Ministry. And if we don't solve our history in this way, once and for all, condemn genocide against our Jewish and Roma people in World War II, I don't know if we should wait for the German Bundestag to do it for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35277	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35278	For a long time now, I have been proposing amendments to the Law on Defence, amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, amending and supplementing the Law on the Army. We had a debate last week and you passed the military laws, but I'm not sure those laws will get anything good into the refrigerators, wallets and tanks of members of the Republic of Serbia's Army. The law on defence is an extremely important law, such as the defence system is an important system for the functioning of the entire state and all of us living in this country. I must say immediately that I do not expect the SNS to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act, because we have not yet encountered approval, above all, to discuss these extremely serious amendments and additions to the Defence Act. We have proposed an amendment and an addition of 18 members of the Defence Act, above all, to improve Serbia's military situation as a whole. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(1) and points 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is just scheduled for Serbia to regulate and ensure the security of all its citizens, regardless of religious, national or political membership. The Defence Act is insufficient and does not provide essential answers to the most important essential issues. One reason is, above all, the obsolescence of basic strategic documents and the neglect of current security situations both in the country where we live, both in the region and globally and in the environment. It is essential, above all, to establish a harmony of the Defense Act with the Military Act. It is not acceptable and it is not normal that in 2018 we do not have compatibility between the Law on Defence and the Law on the Military, and it is not normal that we do not have the harmony between the Law on Defence and the Emergency Act. That is why DS and I personally propose amendments to the Defence Act. If the problem is what the DS suggests, I suggest you propose it, we will withdraw these amendments and supplement the law. I think these amendments and additions to the Defense Act are important for the defense system, not for the day-to-day political bickering. I thank General Sreto Malinović and General Radojicic, who worked with me on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35279	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35280	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, chairman, the DS is proposing amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government precisely because the lives of all citizens, whether they live in Surdulica, Subotica or Belgrade, are equally important. We have a chance that all local self-governments are reduced to the fact that the presidents of the municipalities and mayors are awaiting a directive from the ruling party, they are reduced to that no president of the municipality has autonomy in the work. They are aware that the European Charter, which has just been ratified by Serbia in 2007 and which guarantees all local self-government, primarily political, administrative and financial independence. No local self-government today in Serbia, none, neither political nor financial independence, exists only administrative independence. All local self-governments, if they are the ruling majority, receive funding from the budget, and those local self-governments that are less or less, do not receive funding from the budget and that is extremely bad. The presidents of the municipalities are left with the will of party juries, and therefore we have a situation in the King's mayor beating people on the street, opening up a traffic light in the King's Mayor's office, opening up in Leskovac as a capital investment a tap, and in Novi Sad, it's a capital investment parking lot for bicycles. It is not good for local self-government or for citizens who live there, as citizens vote for the president of the municipality to solve their problems together, not to get them out of the ruling party's top. How is that in the EU? In the EU, half of the budget goes to the expense of local self-government, municipalities and cities, and half of the budgets are used by the government of the Republic of Serbia. In Serbia, the situation is significantly worse for municipalities and cities, so that municipalities and cities and autonomous provinces in general belong to only 10.2% of total budget revenues, and 89% of total budget revenues belong to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of which after which are the mayors and presidents of municipalities. We had a situation in Mramork, a local community in Kovin, where the Democratic Party, which ran, collected signatures in those elections, was not allowed to have people on the election board or people on the election board. It's generally bad for the political system in general. The Serbian Progressive Party has taken away 50 billion dinars by local self-government for six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35281	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not yet voted 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35282	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every authority is variable, we could see that. I therefore propose amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information and Media, because I do not understand why the SNS, which will become an opposition in the next elections, will not adopt these amendments and amendments of the law nicely? You're going to lose power, you're going to lose the election, you've damaged the state, you're not living well in the country, and it's just a natural order of events. And because of you, you need to adopt amendments to the Public Information Act. There's no reason to be afraid of anything. We need objective information and I will immediately, as an MP of the Democratic Party, fence myself from all that the ruling media who support the regime is bad and that all that the media that support the opposition, although there are very few, is good. I will fence myself and say that, as I am against the fact that "Informer" and "Pink" are writing praises about the Serbian Progressive Party for 24 hours, it is so bad when only one opposition political party appears on one opposition television, and when one single daily, all happiness is not with a large circulation, which is opposition, it also praises only one opposition movement – both are bad for media freedoms. We need objectivity. We need normal media information. We need citizens to know what's true, not that at this point it fits one opposition or one party that's in power, to write it. You have perfected and led to a maximum system called media abuse and I therefore ask you to adopt amendments to the Public Information Act. During 2013, 23 attacks on journalists were recorded. During 2013, 23 attacks, and 54 attacks on journalists were recorded during 2017. So you are also faster, stronger and better in that segment, so from the 23rd attack in 2013, you allowed 54 attacks on journalists during 2017, which is indeed a scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35283	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35284	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Social Protection Act is contained in the provision of Article 97.8) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs, whether they are the government or the opposition, to vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act. The Democratic Party proposes three concrete measures to amend and supplement this law. The first measure – that all students whose parents do not work are provided free of charge from home to school, that all students whose parents do not work are provided free snack and that free textbooks are provided to all students whose parents do not work. The defeating data for us as a society in general is that every day out of 800,000 children who are covered by primary and secondary education, every day 50,000 children are hungry. Today, 50,000 kids are watching the bench as his buddy has money for lunch, and the kid doesn't have any money for lunch. We must fight against this injustice and that irregularity. It is not Serbia that the DS wants, and we must fight that phenomenon. You passed the e-books Act a few weeks ago. I am then, and I will ask now, are you aware that parents work for 22,000 dinars, if they work, that many parents don't work, that we have 50,000 children who are covered by primary and secondary education whose parents don't work, and you have introduced them electronic textbooks. Yes, the Democratic Party is for electronic textbooks, but are you asking what the compatibility between the financial situation is in the pockets of those parents and reality? Can any parent who has one child provide their child with pills or laptops, let alone who has two or three children? I grew up alone in a family where there were three of us, my mother didn't work, my father had very modest incomes, and I know what it's like when you don't even have a trip and you don't have money for basic needs. So I ask you to adopt these changes and additions. We must not allow our children to be hungry today, let alone ask parents who have no money for their children's textbooks, to buy a laptop or tablets for each of their children. In 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population is only 17.3%, and that is also extremely bad. That's why DS proposes another measure, which is that all married couples who can't be made as parents are financed by the state by free out-of-body insemination. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we cannot allow this state to happen and that our share of children in Serbia's total population is only 17%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35285	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 143 MPs for—eight against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35286	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished citizens, members of the Ministry of Defence, the DS is proposing amendments and additions to 18 members of the Military Act. It is necessary, first of all, to bring the Law on the Army and the Defence Act into line. As I said earlier, explaining the amendments and additions to the Defence Act, it is not normal and it is not good for the state and for the security system in general that in 2018 we do not have compatible laws on the military and defence laws. I don't really know what's controversial about these proposed amendments to the Military Act and these 18 members. This is not the topic of political racing, this is a serious and professional topic for members of the Ministry of Defence. The military was an institution with the highest confidence of citizens in it, and now the Army is an institution with really bad data, with really bad percentages and with really bad polls, when you ask members of the Ministry of Defense about how they work. The military is an institution that has changed five ministers in six years, and what is even worse than that is that every minister is worse than its predecessor from the SNS. Simply, the military is a complex system, the Ministry of Defence is extremely complex Ministry, I'm not saying that other ministries are not, but the Ministry of Defence has both education and health and segments of agriculture and the military, so it's a truly complex ministry that counts 37,000 members. Eighty per cent of Serbian Army members earn less than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia and that is extremely bad. Seventy-two percent of Serbian civilians earn 22,000 dinars. I think that as a government that's been ruining this country for six years, you have to fight with your fact and you have to say, that's right and that's bad, we haven't been able to do anything in either the economic or the security sector. Seventy-two per cent of Serbian Army members who leave the military do so on a personal request. The military was once the most trusted institution of citizens, and now the army is an institution to escape from. Eight hundred professional soldiers leave Serbia's army every year. You promised moments two years ago. It happened that the soldiers had reduced their daily living, that soldiers had reduced their salaries, that military pensioners had reduced their pensions, the SNS had simply said nothing to improve the standard of living for members of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35287	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 147 MPs in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, to identify the facts and circumstances and responsibilities relating to unauthorized listening by the VBA, who, without a decision of the court, had been spying on political parties, leaders, unions and individual judges, who submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcys to the Shining Vehicles “Gosa” from Smederjevska Palanka, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been restrained. No one has voted 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, to identify the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the Smederjevska Palanka Assembly of Radoslav Milojic and the non-intentional spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were just listening to a moving story from a colleague who spent four billion dinars more than the budgets were allowed. It's been translated into pensions. It's about 200,000 pensions. The social benefits of a man who's spent 200,000 pensions more. The story of a man who had two pools in the Smederjev Palace in one evening. He talks about free textbooks, free laptops, free supplies, free lunches. He, who didn't have any of it, counted four billion more when he was president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality. Instead of free textbooks, it was free beer and it was foreign, but for him and his friends, he spent one night, he drank 350 beers, 470,000 dinars. When they translate it into lunch, they drank 4700 lunches to the kids for one night at the bar with their friends. He's talking about the fight, the one who beat up a man in the middle of Smederevska Palanka, 63 years old. He's talking about protecting local self-government, the one who's in charge of Smederevska Palanka for four billion. He, who issued the pool for 50 years, plus hot water, for 2,000 euros. That's how much we charge for an ice cream machine in India, and the pools are the same. He's talking about the army, he, whose boss, who's always on the line, has nothing he hasn't sold. He was selling tanks for $5,000, and this guy drinks 5500 a night in beer. So, the man who drank the tank, the story of the army, how the army doesn't have this, doesn't have that. The army has small salaries, only 20% higher than when his boss was minister. If his boss had invested a little more in weapons and a little more if he had invested in the army, if he'd been drinking less, if he'd sold these pools more expensive, I believe the army would have stood better. So, someone who spent 700 armored transporters, whose boss spent, someone who sold the JNA home for 16 million cheaper than he bought it, as Smederevska Palanka, he talks about irregularities in the military, he talks about military weaknesses, and his boss, when he was a military minister, invested more on himself than on the whole army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35289	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there has been no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic of the National Assembly, which a group of 32 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35290	National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Capital Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35291	I want to, but since it's low, can you just tell me exactly what you gave me your word for?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35292	Proposal for a law amending the Capital Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35293	Thank you. What is the President-in-Office, the proposal and my personal and parliamentary club from which I come, is that the mayor is elected directly in the elections in Belgrade so that the Belgrade citizens can know who they're voting for. It is a proposal that I also think should be in all other cities in Serbia, and also in municipalities, why not, so that citizens can simply know who is human or who is the woman who will represent the citizens, what kind of plan it offers and what kind of programme it offers, what the personal and moral quality of that candidate or candidate is, or who is running in local elections, on the basis of which citizens will, of course, define themselves in elections, vote, have or do not trust and give in some way the next four years to someone who will, in this case, make the city a much better place to live. However, the situation is in Belgrade, and in other Serbian cities, of course, nothing better, much worse than we could have imagined. Since 2014, we don't really know which citizens give the right to vote in Belgrade. In the last few days, we have texts that, behold, Belgrade Mayor Goran Vesic will be. If you tell me that at least one of you Belgraders in this National Assembly voted for the SNS so Goran Vesic would be mayor, here, raise his hand and I'll really say I'm wrong. Did one SNS member in Belgrade vote for Goran Vesic to be Belgrade's mayor? And I can say that there is absolutely no such situation. There is not a single word about the citizens of Belgrade. Who voted for the mayor to be the one who obviously had a lot of connections when it came to the collapse of the Savamala, when it came to many other things and affairs in Belgrade concerning the shame of Belgrade citizens who had never experienced it in their history? How many times have the procedure been broken, that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35294	Thank you, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35295	I really think you'll vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35296	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35297	Thank you. When it comes to Serbia's military and defence, I believe that everyone in this country who is well-intentioned and who has finished primary school knows that the Serbian Army has actually inherited one army that was in some way the most famous in our country's history with a folk-free fight and an anti-fascist struggle between two wars. The Second World War ended in one way that represented the brightest period of our history. Our army once boasted of this glorious history, and now it's obviously ashamed of it. I don't know how and how the government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded, I suppose at some phone session, if they have any, that anti-fascist struggle and victory over fascism should not be celebrated and that the Serbian Army should not take part in celebrating its glorious history and its glorious achievements that have proudly been proud of generations. Everyone in this country who has graduated from elementary school knows what the fight looked like and that not only the communists participated in it, but that they participated in it, at the invitation of the then Crown Prince, and those who were monarchs in then-Yugoslavia and Serbia. That army is the pride of this people. But today we have, on the other hand, a big problem, because the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Serbia celebrates an anti-fascist battle only on the monument of Draža Mihajlovic, along with his unit of guard of the Republika Srpska Army. Based on what and on what act of the Ministry of Defence, the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is that a revision of history? Is it a change or a turn in a policy not led by the government, but by the Chief of Staff, that a testified associate of the occupation of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, or not by the Army, but by its chief of staff and its representatives celebrate as a great anti-fascist or whatever? Not a single word was about anti-fascism, but it was saluted by individuals from the Republic of Serbia's military. On the basis of what act, what law, what conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35298	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee in order to determine the facts of the role and responsibilities of the highest authority in the lawless destruction of buildings in the Belgrade district of Savamal and to determine the facts of the person responsible for the destruction of those facilities, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35299	I thank the chairman. I don't understand why you're running from the board of inquiry, unless you have something to hide, of course. Whoever's hiding, he doesn't want to vote for the polling committee when it comes to the collapse in Savamala. When I mentioned a moment ago Goran Vesic, I mentioned him for reasons which is more than obvious, he said on several occasions that even the SNS president, that the top city government was involved in the collapse in Savala. The summit of city authorities is Sinisa Mali, as mayor and Goran Vesic, then the manager of Belgrade's city. What's very funny is that no one from the police in the investigation procedure has invited Sinisha Mali, or Goran Vesic to any information conversation. When it comes to cleaning up city greenery and city cleanliness that happened the next day, city services were involved in hiding evidence from the scene, or from Herzegovina Street. Who ordered this cleanup, if not the city manager and mayor of Belgrade? You today promote these people to one of the finance ministers, the second to the mayor of Belgrade, who were obviously involved in the biggest crime in modern Belgrade history. The destruction, the unlawful destruction of private facilities, someone's private property, the bonding of citizens, police, as well as the municipal police that didn't appear at the scene, eventually and the binding of one of the security guards from Savala from Hercegovica Street who died shortly afterwards. It's not even enlightened. Now, it's the polling board that would determine, of course, all these crimes, but above all, the most important person who ordered the phone call, I quote, "Break it," by the quote. Who was the one who ordered the destruction of Savala during the phone conversation, and is it true that there is indeed a recorded conversation? When it comes to police and security structures in the country, I would like the survey board to examine who ordered the city's top government to collapse? That she has torn down the city's power there is no dilemma, but who is the taskmaster of this crime and who ultimately contributed to the execution of this crime to one of the people and tragically die in a few weeks after this unfortunate event? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35300	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to establish the agenda of this session. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35301	Chairman, this is the Bill of Law on Violence, first of all, which you spoke of here in parliament and tried to impose an alleged topic on which and how much interest has awakened in Serbia, and then you do not want to put at least on the agenda, you do not have to adopt it, but to put the law that I have proposed from the moment I was able to protect more than 40 women's lives in Serbia. So, where those registered thugs ended up in a police station without a cop taking away their legally acquired weapons, they return to their home and kill their wife, their children, their homes, and so on. I think it's even more bizarre to convince any of you, I think it's pointless. If you think you can save someone else, and I'm sure you can already protect your life tomorrow, put this law on the agenda. No one will discuss it, and of course they can protect both family and life. I think it is necessary beyond that, that these topics that are important in Serbia, that these are topics that are important in the lives of those who suffer domestic violence, and in this way you can, in some ways, prevent those most serious crimes when it comes to domestic violence, it is the murder of spouses, children, family members, parents, and unfortunately, it is happening increasingly in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35302	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35303	Thank you. It is a law on the employment of young people more popularly, a law that contributes to young people who have graduated from high school, high school or colleges finding work easier in Serbia than they can today. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that only children of government officials can easily get to their businesses, can easily get to cars, apartments, can easily get to jobs, can easily get to high state functions. But those kids who learn valuablely, those kids whose parents aren't officials whose parents aren't party officials can't afford it. This law should give everyone an equal chance after, an equal chance in the sense that the state will somehow reward them to be more competitive in the labour market, but to be cheaper for the employer since it is mostly the first job. For first jobs, it is very important that employers give young people a chance to get a job, give them a chance to gain some of their work experience. What makes it possible for them, first of all, to the employers? It allows them to make that worker cheaper. The younger it is, the cheaper it is. The employers who spoke with the MPs behind this proposal discussed and agreed that tax reliefs could be the ones to stimulate this type of employment. On the other hand, these young people also have to go to practice during their education and education, during their studies and for that they would, of course, get some compensation from both employers and the state, some kind of allowance. It's a minimum the state can do to keep a young man in the country at all. We're all leaving today, people are running away from Serbia today. Today older people, of course, are running away with work experience, but especially those who have no work experience. As soon as they graduate from college, they decide to take a one-way ticket and go as far away as possible from this country because other countries provide them with what this government, which the SNS does not want to give them, which is an opportunity, just an equal chance. They're not looking for a safe job, they're looking for an equal chance, not that the functioning kids have a chance, and that all the other children in Serbia can just move out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35304	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law establishing the public interest and special procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit, for the realisation of the project "Belgrade na Voda", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here's a colleague of Bozovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35305	I thank the chairman. This almost ended in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, i.e. the subject was transferred there, on the basis of a criminal report that I personally filed against Zorana Mihajlovic, who signed the Treaty on the Construction of "Beograda on Water". That's when I said that Alexander Vukic, as a good lawman, avoided signing that contract because eventually someone will end up, of course, in front of the judicial authorities of this country. What is very suspicious is why is the state of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, or citizens, or all of us living in this country investing billions and billions of state resources, citizens' money, pension pension pension pensioners in a project that is a private project, owned by a friend of Alexander Vukic? How can we invest billions of private investors for his project and only have 32% stake in this joint venture? On his part, he invests hundreds of times less and has 68% of the share of the joint venture called "Belgrade on Water". Then, plus building permits past procedures, then land is assigned past procedures, then some laws that carry special value with them are invented, which is the opening of millions of jobs, which is a complete lie, no one has hired on "Belgrade on Water" those who have hired have a minimum wage, each day risking their lives to build some towers that need only Al Abar, not citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens. Then private courtyard and private property of a private investor are built from downtown Belgrade. Well, why can't anyone from this country do that, but a purely privileged investor who, miraculously, in his portfolio has a friend of Alexander Vukic? It's not fair and it's not right. This is, in the end, a felony. Because of this crime called "Belgrade on Water" someone will eventually respond. We'll see who's gonna buy apartments, who's the people who live there. I am telling you that no Serbian citizen who has acquired his property fairly will pay for his apartment in "Belgrade on Water". It's only those who've made a lot of money in the last two terms of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35306	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've just heard Gilas's right hand, so a man who, during the time of Dragan Gilas, defeated a Shutanovec or a grabman. What surprised me was that it was undetected, that the worst student in the history of the Third Belgrade High School, would be recognized, said Petar II, the Crown Prince of World War II. Does he think King Alexander is still alive? Because only while King Alexander was alive, Petar II Karadjordjevic was the Crown Prince, the worst student in the Third High School, or he thinks that King Alexander is still alive, that he was not killed in Marseille in 1934, may be seeing Nadezda Petrovic, Milankovic, and all those pearls, but I am asking this guy who runs that show, to certainly record this pearl that hatched the worst student in the history of the Third Belgrade High School. Namely, the man who spoke here about Savamali, the man who allowed Gilas' sacks to tear down one Belgrade neighborhood, the whole Roma settlement was torn down, Roma put in a container, and those anti-fascism fighters. And then Goran Vesic doesn't like it. Why doesn't he like it? I guess it's because he's the only former DS member who's crossed the census. He doesn't like it even though it was a man who was right-handed during Djindjic, whose actions they took in. Now it is up to him to decide whether they follow Djindjic's policy or whether they are against Djindjic's policy. A man who doesn't have any councilmen in Belgrade, and he was head of the Belgrade board, and he's giving everyone a lecture here. He says someone's going to be chosen. Well, no one voted for them. They did not enter parliament and Janko Veselinovic with a craftsmanship or Turnover Movement, the turnover Janko entered the town hall, the DS did not enter because the Belgrade board led the right hand of Dragan Djilas, the right hand of Sutanovac, most likely the right hand after Jankovic. They did not enter parliament even though he led the Belgrade committee. Now he's giving us lectures and he's talking about destroying the Savamala. Which does not speak of nine objects that Goran Jesic has torn down in Indjia since 2006. By 2007, more than half of it was protected by the state. Destroyed, declared an unbuilt building land and without a building permit built 30,000 squares. That's what you're talking about. That's why I'm asking for this committee to be established in the future, if not now, I'm going to insist on this whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35308	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – ten, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of suspected SNS transactions, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the parliamentary elections in 2014 and the presidential elections in 2017, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35309	I thank the chairman. So it is the formation of a polling committee to see how the ruling party, which has the largest number of MPs in this parliament, is being funded. The president of that party, somewhere I saw at a national frequency, even said how people were approaching in some cafes, so they were giving and paying money to the SNS. Well, let's just, if we think it's okay to be some kind of legal state, then let's see if it's all clear. It's really illogical for tens and tens of thousands of people to pay, for I don't know how many tens of thousands of dinars or euros and see if there's anything suspicious about it or not. One party cannot fund democracy in Serbia in a way that has 100 million, let's say, euro for the campaign, and all others that are exclusively funded by law, many of them are in a blockade, many are in some way winding up, many of them do not exist in campaigns and voters can't even hear or see them. Now, how and in what way? Is it possible that there are three, four, five municipal boards in some municipalities, e.g. The game that wins in some places doesn't have one? How many employees have SNS on black? Why are they black employees? How can they and where do they get the cash and be given in envelopes to those who work on these municipal committees? I really don't get it. If it's all legal, then let's see how and who's funding SNS? Let's see where that black money came from. Whether through corruption or through some much greater crime being committed in Serbia. So it's a very important piss, an important issue because the most sacred duty of every citizen is the rule of law, the establishment of a rule of law. How are you going to tell someone tomorrow that you are for the rule of law or for European policy or integration if you do not want to be transparent about your funding and how you work. That is what is a key issue for the country's progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35310	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts of the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Skoda” to the Ministry of the Interior, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here is a colleague of Bozovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35311	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to be very brief and I'm going to try to make it equally clear. We had a crisis a year ago, whether "Fiat" will stay in Serbia or not. We had a crisis by the workers strike, by stopping production. We had a crisis that did not know what contract was signed, which I never agreed with, but we also had this crisis, what will be the contract that will only be signed and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will offer to the "Fiyat" so that it will remain in the country. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia is calling for 700 or 800 vehicles for the MUP to be purchased with no tender. And look at the wonders, there's only one who's got a direct contract from the government, with a secret agreement, a contract to sell 800 or 700 car stamps. I don't mind. How could it not occur to you to encourage a domestic car industry? So we have a Fiat in Kragujevac, where the question is whether this issue will stay for a while, will it safely continue production in Serbia and over the next ten years? That the government of the Republic of Serbia did not buy a car produced by the hands of Serbian workers in Kragujevac, so it is not only irrational and not transparent spending of citizens' money, it is pure insolence. You who are supposed to be some nationalists or some patriots, that no one has thought to buy a car brand “Fiat 500 L” produced in Kragujevac, for the purposes of the police since it is used by the police in Italy, since it is used by police in many other countries around Europe, but no, for our police, it has to be “pity”, even if it is the most basic, it is weak and whether it is another, but in any case the brand “Fiat 500 L” produced in Serbia did not occur to anyone. It's a shame. This led to the uncertainty of workers working at the Fiat factory and the survival of Fiat in Serbia. Now, that's irresponsible behavior. I don't understand how and why you immediately agreed to sell this sale, when it's not your money, it's not SNS money, it's the money of Serbian citizens, and you have to put it in your head once and for all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35312	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities regarding the reshuffle of Slavi Square and the construction of the music fountain,1 which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here is a colleague of Bozovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35313	Thank you. In particular, it is a fountain in Slavija, which was found on one site for 500,000 euros, and two million were paid by the City of Belgrade. Not only the fountain, so is the mast, so are many other structures of the government of Sinishi Mali and Goran Vesić. They defend themselves by saying that this is something that will serve the Belgrades for honor, that we will have the opportunity to listen to the music fountain, etc., and then on the other hand we have speakers that are attached and glued to the bandits around that fountain. So, it's not even that the fountain itself has the ability to make a sound, but the speakers are being bought extra, they're going to go to the bandits in the area, and then it's all working out, believe me, more than funny, but good. Those who led the City of Belgrade know where the million-and-a-half euro difference is. We don't know as representatives of citizens, and they don't know citizens, and that's why we said this, let's do one survey committee to somehow try to motivate you who otherwise advocates the rule of law and the laws in Serbia, to encourage a little and the prosecution to wake up, so that we can eventually find the culprit -- who stole a million-and-a-half euros in comparison to how much the fountain costs in Belgrade and how much is paid? So, a million and a half euros, you'll agree, it's not small, and trust me very much, it means to those who don't have any scholarships, or to enroll a master's degree, or to finish high school or college, or to those healthcare workers who are fleeing Serbia today, so they don't have 100 or 200 euros in higher wages somewhere in the region. It's very important that we try to break up all these affairs somehow and come up with what these money is spent on and how these money is spent and finally, who took the money on these corrupt reconstructions. We see that Slavia is completely falling apart. Just before, Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic exhibited to me in detail somewhere nearby, I pass every day, he pointed out to me in detail what this square looks like, how badly it's been done, how many sidewalks have been cracked, the lighting is already largely out of place, and that fountain is really paid, and the reconstruction of the entire square, where you finally did not do the thing that required the reconstruction, and these are the underground passages. You just left out the underground passages, but that's why someone took a million and a half euros and put it in their pocket. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35314	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact of how the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vulin, acquired an apartment in Belgrade of 107m square euros worth 244,620 euros, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35315	Thank you, Chairman. Well, just 240 thousand euros. What is it for a Serbian government minister? It's obviously dust besides everything that's going on, so, like, we're not going to ask how one minister got his own apartment, even though he has a salary of about 900 euros, 1000 euros, the Serbian government minister has 240 thousand euros in cash and bought an apartment and then when they asked him -- well, where did you get the money, he said -- well, the money was given to me by my aunt from Canada, that is, my wife's aunt from Canada. Now, he was advised by an obvious lawyer, since it's not possible to check the property of the citizens of Canada. But anyway, do you really think that even a serious tax administration can afford to buy an apartment for 240,000 euros in cash and then say -- where did you get the money, so I don't know where the money came from, give me some aunt from Canada? So this is more than funny. This survey committee should determine where Alexander Vulin's money really came from, who gave him that money and how he could, if he already claims it was his, make so much money for all this time, since his receipts, of course, weren't even in the theory that he could cover any loan or loan. I hope that's what those in power are interested in, and some of them are in positions that do their job fairly. I'm not saying that everyone is corrupt and that they're all criminal, but obviously among the ruling majority there are those representatives or leaders who, in this way, solve their housing issues, and simply, they don't think of answering one logical question -- where did you get 240,000 euros, who gave it to you, how can you as a minister claim? We all want one serious country to be, of course, Serbia, to claim that someone's aunt from Canada sent that money to you in cash and that I don't know how many times a month she had to simply live on a plane to come to Serbia so many times and give him that cash. I think it's a shame for this government and this country, and of course, it's up to you to be intimate with that shame or to stand up to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35316	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the project of investment investment investment in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Belgrade in connection with the signing of the agreement on the construction of a burner in Vinca, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts relating to the trafficking of human organs in Kosovo and Metohija, the so-called "yellow house", which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35317	Thank you. So, no conversation, no agreement, no agreement, absolutely, does not come to mind for me as a national MP, not to support it, but that in any way even with my presence I participate in it, given that the president of the Kosovo government is someone who is accused of the most serious war crimes in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. What bothers me is that Ramush Haradinaj as someone who has apparently participated in the most serious crimes on KIM, as someone who has even been described by prosecutors from the Hague tribunal as one of the greatest culprits for the tragedies that have taken place on KIM, even in several books of certain prosecutors who wrote these books. A war crimes court has been formed, for crimes in Kosovo and Metohija, Pristina. The prosecution, of course, began to do its job very unsuccessfully, but on the other hand, by the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes of the Republic of Serbia, there was absolutely nothing at the address of the International Court of Justice, which was formed, and I know from reliable information, from the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and I received assurance from people who work there, that there was irrefutable evidence that the president of the Kosovo government was involved in the most serious war crimes, in extracting the organs of the so-called. "yellow houses" to the non-Albanian population, mostly Serbs who were captured and kidnapped during KLA military operations. What is a shame is that such a government is backed by the Serbian list, by the SNS, which received support from the SNS to participate in the government. It only says how sacred nothing is to you. And agreements on Kosovo and Metohija with such ones, so you better not bring them to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because they are not worth discussing, because they are stained with the blood of those whose paintings stand before the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that's what you've allowed yourself after everything that's happened and everything that you've done to the citizens in the 1990s, and here you are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35318	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors in order to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMC Kruševa factory "14. October", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human victims and material and immaterial flood damage in Serbia's territory in 2014, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for –two, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the privatisation of the PKK, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the US Embassy, the Federal Republic of Germany, which was attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo Is Serbia", as well as the responsibility of former and current holders of the highest state functions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of the Chinese company Mei Ta in Barič, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract for the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35319	Thank you, Chairman. Once again, a criminal report by the Special Prosecutor's Office has been rejected, with an explanation that they cannot determine whether Serbia is a party that will have damages recorded in this project and the implementation of this project, so that I can report in about 30, 40 years for how long the contract predicted the whole project to be implemented. I also think that Serbia can assess the damage it has to do with this project, how much money has been invested by the city's register so far and how much has been paid for the destruction of the Sava amphitheatre, in the end and illegal destruction of private property, who also paid for that construction firm that crashed and Herzegovica Street. So that's all the money of the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. The question also remains – who will finance the removal of the bus, Lastin and the railway station, who will finance the bridge through Vinca, which is necessary now, given the removal of certain corridors and certain tracks located in the Sava amphitheatre area? Who will finish building the Interceptor, who will channel, who will pay for the gasification, who will carry out whatever is necessary in the preparation of the land, in the preparation of the land for construction, and how much, of course, is the investor obliged to give? So far, the investor, as we understand it, has not given a god knows what, not to say anything, but he didn't give a god knows what, because everything is being built on the line, by some and state-owned companies, until recently, and some private companies that compensate for it by different, which by building materials, which by the government. I think it is a shame to praise in this way the biggest project that changes the national cultural heritage, which changes Belgrade's appearance and ultimately the symbols of Belgrade and Serbia. One of them is, of course, also the winner who absolutely does not care about the ruling majority. Many architects, many associations have stood up against all this, even when it comes to the Higher Building Study, but it could not prevent greed for money and state resources by those who represent themselves as your president's friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35320	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for the untrue presentation of the situation in relation to the level of aflatoxin in milk and corn, which caused considerable material and immaterial damage to the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the Serbian government and Etihad Airways on the establishment of air traffic undertakings Er Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? My colleague Bozovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The big deal, i.e. the big deal concluded by the government of the Republic of Serbia, is obviously not successful. JAT was obviously given a wake-up call. We've taken over, of course, the debts, and Er Serbia is turning into a lou bone company. I don't know how justice does this negative business of Er Serbia with management and directors who have salaries of several tens of thousands of euros, and on the other hand they absolutely don't answer to anyone. What's very important is that you were wrong when you said it was a job of the century, that it was a job that would develop Belgrade. On the contrary, even the airport failed in the right way to solve, that is, find a partner who will invest much more than you signed with him. I think it's a very unsuccessful whole deal. The planes, in the end, aren't ours, the fleet's below average again, we don't have a chance to fight the world's competition. That airport was, of course, everything we had from the resources, and of course you gave it to some business partner, and on the other hand, I don't think you did anything to keep this situation from happening. Of those best caterers, the best services, etc., in the end there really is nothing left. I don't know if you've recently driven Air Serbia's planes, or Etyhada, so you've seen how low that service can be compared to any country that has a national company in the region, and of course Serbia has received nothing, except debts that will have to be paid by those who have reduced salaries and pensions. This is another bad deal, and I think that with this you somehow circled this seven-year-old government in such a way that everything you've done and represented as successful projects, which will hire and develop Belgrade and Serbia, you've led to a national airline, once the largest in this part of Europe, we have a lou bone company that will soon lift the flights you've advocated to go daily, like for example for New York. I think it's a shame and I think the workers who work there, who have lost their jobs, like JAT Tech, for example, that you've brought to bankruptcy, will suffer for these drugs that you've made, and yet they're not transparent, but all contracts are secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35322	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, to identify the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within the framework of the "Gelezzare" Smederevo 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros annually, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role of the highest authorities in relation to the contract between the Republic of Serbia and the company "Al Ravafe International Investment" which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the way in which the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad, which, on 30 November 2012, the company Telecom Serbia took over the remaining debt to mention the 77,000-euro apartment, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Dual Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I was also authorised in front of my parliamentary club, and I was talking about the devastating effects of the Duo Education Act, and since all those who know something about the strategy of higher education, the strategy and general education in Serbia, those who wrote how and how Serbia will look in the next 20, 30 or 50 years, if this law remains in force. Of course, we were against it, and we tried in every way to convince those who voted for it, that it would not bring new jobs, that it would exclusively introduce slave power into Serbia, that young people would be prevented from gaining knowledge, that they would learn during the lifetime, that they would exclusively work and that their physical strength would be abused in various factories, in various centres, where they were asked exclusively to stand on track for 10 or 12 hours and simply not have a decent man's life, that they had no dignity, after that age, because they would have minimal pensions, that they had no opportunity to gain new experiences, new knowledge and that, like their peers in Europe, they were developing in their lives, that they had their own careers, that they had their own "graves", which are full of different degrees of experience. In this way you actually condemn them to a one-way ticket, which is a map into slavery, that they will work for some twenty thousand dinars, that you will try to imagine how good it is for Serbia, because we have opened all of this another hundred jobs, but that they will exclusively bend cables and will actually be people who will not be prepared for the 21st century, for the century in which they live, for the centuries of technology, for the century of knowledge, in which you have to learn all your life if you want to stay in step with the competition. This is where you of the youngest legs, actually made it impossible for them to be citizens of the front row. Your kids will probably go to the best universities. They will be paid what they can from the budget to various scholarships, which in various other ways, best education, but for other children who can't afford it, you've condemned them to be workers as a labour force.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35324	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for five against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Transport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2018. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to know what Boris Tadic and Mr. Seizure were doing in Libya to celebrate Libyan Jamaica. I'd like to know how much Sutanovac forgave and the DS for forgiving Iraq's debts on behalf of the state, how many techniques have they sold, how many have our country disarmed? Just now, a man who was right-handed, while this man was the secretary of defense, was his right-hand man. The right hand provided us with information on Mr. Sutanovac's savings role and said that he had a million euros in the account. Turns out it was only 300,000, a man who had a salary of 800 euros. Mr. Balša Bozovic left a message for me on social networks – fire monkeys. As a farmer, I don't think he insulted me alone, he insulted all the farmers in Serbia. He believes that we who work on earth, in the country, are not worthy of respect, even though we are twice as old. That must have been taught by the one who has overturned all of Belgrade without public procurement. My parents taught me that God created humans. He's obviously been taught that he's become a monkey. Ladies and gentlemen, he said something to Haradinaj, the one whose party released 2108 Albanian terrorists, the Mazrek brothers. They also let criminals rape a nine-year-old girl. They executed the March pogrom, destroyed churches, burned down, destroyed crosses, etc. He was talking about factories, looking for an open factory survey board. Well, how many survey committees should we, Balsa Bozovic, educate for all the factories you've closed, for 400,000 fired workers? How long would it take, Mr. Bozovic, the committee of inquiry? I believe it's foamed cheeks, but we have to investigate whether celebrating our military power was accidental or deliberate. They think they're as valuable as moles when they undermine the state. They think when they put it in the biography that they've been trained by the CIA that it's worth something. I don't think so. They don't think it's worth fighting for. I'm not defending power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35326	You're bringing the end, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35327	I will defend the state here and its right to exist and the right to set up this committee of inquiry in one of the next sessions and see what these people have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35328	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović on 13 October 2017. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow the assembly session, God helps all. We have demonstrated today, hopefully, a good parliamentary practice, that when representatives of the government propose something that is good and useful for the state of Serbia, although we are a serious and fierce opposition to the current government, we support it. An example is a proposal by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, to form a commission to deal with the consequences of NATO bombing. The full public and everyone here could see for themselves that MPs from the Dvori Group voted in favour of this proposal by the ruling majority. I would now ask you to seriously consider proposals coming from the opposition's ranks, specifically on two proposals that I will present and concerning, I would say, above-the-counter topics, because the arrangement of official use of language and letter, the protection of Serbian language and the protection of Cyrillic as our national letter, I'm sure they are not topics between which we should share and that we can very easily achieve full consent. So, I would ask you to support putting these two points on the agenda and, if necessary, to supplement and complete these two declarations that are in the function of protecting the Serbian language and letters. The first of them is a declaration on the protection of Serbian language, which we have in mind that language belongings do not match religious membership and that they spoke and spoke in Serbian and ethnic Serbs of different religions, Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Islamic. We also have in mind the scientific fact that the modern Serbian language is used by other religions, including other nations in some newly formed states, but that it is a single and unique literary language, which was formed by Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic. That is why in this declaration we claim that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses the view that all literary and scientific works created in Serbian are part of the Serbian spiritual and cultural heritage, including works of scientists and artists of non-Serbian nationalities created in Serbian, works of Serbs of all religions created in Serbian, as well as works of scientists and artists from the diaspora dispersion created in Serbian. Serbia's state institutions are obliged to work on censusing, obtaining, guarding and protecting all works of art and science created in Serbian. So, the motive is very simple, anything ever written in Serbian should be preserved as part of the Serbian people's literary and cultural heritage, no matter where this legacy is today and who is taking it in today. Please pay attention and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35330	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović on 13 October 2017. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35331	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, I'm going to quote actually the basics on which we ask that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia finally be placed in the position of full protection of the Serbian Cyrillic letter, but trust some very important things, and that is to keep the Serbian literary treasure created on the latinic, which belongs to some other literature and culture of nations and states as their literary treasure, which actually belongs to the history of Serbian literature. So something written on the Latin is an absolute part of Serbian literature and should be preserved as part of Serbian literature. I ask you to pay attention, no matter what previous declaration you have refused, although I think it is surpassive and that around it we can easily achieve all consent, that you do not do so this time and support the protection of the Cyrillic, because I see no reason why you would not do so. Given that language and letter are the basic characteristic of national identity, that for other peoples it is not characteristic that they have two letters and that the two-chasing represents a huge problem both in cultural and educational terms and in economic terms, that the Cyrillic is one of the most recognizable features of the cultural history of Serbs, which is all the most significant monuments of our culture, that in international standards that use Latin scripts do not specify Serbian, which is why everything written in the Serbian language in the world's library funds is recorded as Croatian literature, that domestic Latin and European heritage, so that everything that has ever been written on the Latin can be easily lost to Serbian literature, because in international procedures, it is recorded as Croatian literature, that domestic Latin and European Latin, so that it is not compatible with one of the most beautiful things in the world. That is why we propose a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of the literary and cultural treasures of the Serbian language created on the Latin. So if we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia don't stand in the protection of Cyrillic, I don't see who else will. If we don't focus the attention of the state authorities to put everything into the function of protecting the Cyrillic, I don't see who's going to do it. We are asking in this declaration that public inscriptions must be highlighted on Cyrillic, that criminal provisions are introduced for those who do not respect the use of Cyrillic in public use, that printed and electronic media must publish their content in Cyrillic and thus contribute to the preservation of this letter and, finally, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia considers it necessary to create a strategy for the preservation of Cyrillic in the entire Serbian language, because the disappearance of Cyrillic is a sure sign of the gradual loss of the national identity of Serbs living outside Serbia. I hope you will support this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35332	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated for the pre-election campaign, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I made this proposal on Cyrillic. Bosko Obradovic, his coalition partner to whom he should have told that the Cyrillic is a condition for co-operation, sued me on the Latin, in a Latin letter. He handed me the lawsuit on the Latin, and that's a lawsuit for words spoken for by the National Assembly's pay phone. And the Constitution says that the MP cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility for an opinion expressed in the performance of his office. The copy of the stenogram that was delivered was delivered on Cyrillic. So this congregation and this government respect it. My proposal is on Cyrillic. And his coalition partner sues me on the Latin and the court rejects my request to get my lawsuit served neatly on Cyrillic. And I didn't hear that Bosko Obradovic convicted her. When something's against me, it's great. When someone rises up against me, he uses the ugliest words against me. In the election campaign, Mr Seselj said that some, according to Canak, were squandered, that the election campaign meant for political parties, that the Dvori Group had transferred the money to entrepreneurial stores, electrorads, designs, computer repairs, all around 28 and a half million in total. The money when not spent in the campaign belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and returns to the budget. The money was not returned to the budget, but was pumped, washed, and done more crimes, because any fictitious job is tax evasion. So, given that this was presented in the last campaign in the Belgrade elections and that it was brought out by a very serious man, Vojislav Seselj, who has always handled a lot of credible data, I am asking for the subject to be set up by the polling committee and to be checked, since the cry for wolf and foxes is eaten, 40 thousand dinars are being checked, I think if 40 thousand dinars are being checked for power, and the opposition needs to be checked for consumption of 28.5 million, which according to the claims of serious politicians, and there are also knowledge from the relevant services, swept up or put into private pockets, and they were to return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to finance pensions and other public spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35334	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which was submitted by MPs Marija Janjusevic and Bosko Obradović on 23 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35335	I thank the chairman. It is another law, one of those in a series that has been brought in quick, under the pressure of the EU and certain lobbies. Because we had problems in Serbia before, such as persons with disabilities, Roma and children, but at a time when the pressure to maintain the Pride Parade was increased, the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination was passed. I wanted to fix it in that part that is absolutely unconstitutional, which is not in line with Article 43 of Article 5, which allows parents to raise their children in accordance with their own moral and religious principles. Hence, there has been so much fuss over the picture books that are reportedly offered to our children in kindergartens, where equal marriages are promoted and the possibility of such couples adopting children, where the boy will have two mothers or girls two fathers. I still think children are the most endangered group in this country, which is confirmed by UNICEF's research. We only have 17% in the population of children, which is about a million and 220 thousand children, of which, believe me, 100,000 children in absolute poverty, 8.4% of children are hungry every day, and 370,000 children in Serbia are on the verge of poverty and that's 30%. So these are official UNICEF research. Unfortunately, the most discriminated children suffered from cancer. This is one of the reasons Dvori will be happy to support the formation of a commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing. Therefore, our children are treated with SMS messages and charity by good people, and if the Association of Parents of Children had not been affected by Nurdor cancer, their position in Serbia would have been even scarier. Another kind of discrimination, just these days when children will be doing a final test, very unusual, not to use a more difficult word, is a regulation, a Regulation on work, criteria and a procedure for enrolling Roma national minority students in high school under more favourable conditions, in order to achieve full equality. So these kids are going to increase the number of points achieved on the test by 30% to make it more equal with typical children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35336	You are bringing the end of Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35337	So, I agree that I need... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35338	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of families in Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojjic, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović on 17 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35339	I thank the chairman. Let me remind my colleagues and all the citizens of Serbia, tomorrow is the international day of the family. So today is an ideal opportunity to, not only verbally, but in a concrete way, show everyone together to support the family. The Serbian Dvora movement since 2009 has regularly maintained family walks, round tables, congresses, all dedicated to supporting the family. After ten years, we have indeed welcomed other political parties, other politicians, starting with the president himself, to talk about the need to protect the family. If anything, at least now we have a consensus that the white plague is the biggest problem in Serbia. The natural family, as we see it, is a union of men and women founded in marriage. In our society, you'll admit, it's kind of a shame to talk about the sanctity of marriage. There's talk of different communities, but the least natural family that provides children with normal growth. I am convinced that the natural family provides us with a healthy offspring. In what way? In such a troubled system of education, in completely collapsed systems of value, the only family allows children to remain independent, mentally and physically healthy and even endure all the bad things they have done to us both the current regimes and regimes since 2000 and further bring. So it is necessary to protect the family as the greatest resource of this society, it is our guarantee of national survival, it is our guarantee of economic prosperity, because without a strong family, we cannot maintain neither the economy nor hope for any progress without further talking about some upgrade in terms of education and culture. For this reason, here is now an ideal opportunity to support the declaration of protection of the family proposed by the Serbian Dvora Movement, and we will certainly support all other initiatives, all parties, even of course those who come from those who are obliged to take care of this by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that so on. Council on Demography led by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who otherwise held the opinion that this family declaration should not be adopted. In the end, just to underline how important it is to adopt a declaration that is above every ideology, every policy above every regime, and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35340	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against them, no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education and survey committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to determine the facts of the circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations of individuals, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can agree that the white plague is the most effective ethnic cleansing. I can agree with the fact that the aggression of cradles is the most successful aggression and we who belong to the majority people in the Republic of Serbia are that and how we felt on our skin. Also, we must stay away from extremist organizations. I respect it when someone goes for a family walk, but when someone from the Kolubara family takes 50,000 euros from the miners, then the honor of family walk, then the family walk is compromised. If someone spends out of the budget, as I've already listed 28 and a few million and it hasn't been checked yet, then that money has been taken from those families. The Bulgarian extremist organisation ATAKA, which was admitted here, is searching for parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which Bosko Obradovic and his parliamentary group have received here. So it's certainly not for the family's benefit. I'm sure it's not in favor of the survival of our population. It's a very dangerous extremist group and it's not the only one that this organisation has that heritage of Ljotic's ideology, as they say Ljotic's, which they should say, which means you're running away from them, but we have Ivan Pernar whose grandfather asked because he's Serbian blood. In the middle of Parliament, it seems to me, in 1928, Mr Martinovic will correct me and he is admitted here, here he is marching with Ustashas in Zagreb. He's here with the Dwri MP group. I agree with family values, but we must also take care of the extremist organizations that individual parliamentary groups here receive and under which reasons all this is happening. So we also have a greeting from the Ljotic group, the success of the alternative for Germany, it is a neo-Nazi organisation. We who were anti-fascists, who had two anti-fascist movements, without desire, when I couldn't reconcile dead ancestors, have no desire to fight descendants. But we must take good care because these extremist organizations lead to division in Serbian society. We can no longer divide, we need to multiply, worship, multiply and agree. The style is half a win. I welcome their commitment to the family, but I ask them to give up their actions and give up these neo-Nazi and other extremist groups, because if we face ourselves, we will surely lose ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35342	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Now, in accordance with article 87 and attitude 1, I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35343	Dear People's MPs, I ask you to establish a quorum. We can keep working. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35344	Thank you very much. With superhuman efforts, after an hour we have gathered a quorum to continue our work, I congratulate the congregation's majority on this effort. The government law, or addition of the Government Act, is one of the laws of a group of health laws dealing with the health of Serbian citizens, particularly with the health of people who should have proof that they are capable of performing important state affairs. As you know, for any serious job it is necessary to have a medical conviction that says that the candidate for that workplace is capable and physically and mentally in every other, third way of doing a job. I propose that the same thing be proposed for members, i.e. candidates for members of the Government, to be related to this Government Act, before they are elected to Parliament, when the Prime Minister sends a proposal, to have among other characteristics in the biography, and whether this candidate is capable in this health sense of performing important functions of a member of the Government, or a minister for one of the areas for which the Government is responsible. To be precise, this member, this amendment that I am looking for – that in the Law on Government, the "Official Journal" and that above the members and Article 11 are changed and said – health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest; so it says - before the government is elected, every proposed member of the Government must provide medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the government cannot be in another public office in the state body or body of the AP, the municipality of the city, the city of Belgrade, or perform acts that are incompatible by law with the duties of a member of the government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest. A member of the Government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. I don't see anything wrong with this proposal, but I do think that yet, the adoption of this amendment to the Government Act would lead to certain that we have people in the government who are also medically capable of performing their functions, which we obviously don't have at this point. We have, say, current events that some ministers are resigning, we don't know why this is happening, so we suspect that maybe it's not something they wouldn't be able to perform, and it's in agreement with my proposal to amend the Law on Government, so I urge you to vote for Serbia's sake for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35345	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35346	This is the most important law in this group of the Health Act and concerns citizens' health directly, not through the health skills or incompetence of MPs, members of the government or the president of the state, but directly and indirectly the cause of this is the fate of a worker, a successful firm from Nis, I will not advertise them negatively or positively, who was fired when she was on sick leave for more than 30 days, and she was sick because of cancer, because she had cancer. This was also the reason why I should propose to amend the Labour Act, where Article 187 paragraph 1 changes and reads: “During pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for child care and leave of work due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the contract of employment. ” I don't see anyone reasonable, anyone who's passed a previous medical examination as a candidate for an MP or any other function that might be against this bill. So I'm a liberal in that sense of the market, I'm a private man for 100 years, exactly 30 and something. I absolutely think it's the way a country's economy should develop, but also an employer, especially if it's a private, and if it's private, and the capital of a domestic or foreign country, it has to respect its workers, and above all, people who have come to a game of unfortunate circumstances to have someone close to them be sick, as God gave a child to God, or that they themselves are at risk of health and have to be on sick leave for more than 30 days. Many are diseases that can lead to a more than 30 - day illness. Today, according to the law, which you voted as a majority a few years ago, the employer can fire not only as in the case of the Council of the City of Nis, which is because she said she would vote against the donation of the airport to the Serbian government, so she was fired, but here refers to people who cannot go to work from objective health problems. I call on you to correct the mistake you made a few years ago, voting for a cruel, bad labour law and to vote for this proposal so that people who have been prevented from working for more than 30 days that their employer can't fire them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35347	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35348	We are still within the Health Act group and concerns the election of the President of the Republic, where Article 1 of the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Official Messenger of the RS, No. 111/2007, says. the year and 104/2009. in Article 11(3), second point (a) is added to the second point (a) – medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. Article 2 of this Act shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication in the ‘Official Messenger’. So, I suggest that, to your joy, not for the existing president, but for the election of the next president, we introduce a mandatory medical examination, to make sure that candidates for presidents, not one, but as many as there are, have at least that minimum health care skills, as is necessary for people who deal with some less important matters in the state administration, such as referents, such as people who work in the kitchen, who work in the distribution of mail, who work in the processing of the subject and create conditions to prevent it from being, not given by God, happen to us to be the president of the state to be someone who is medically incompetent. This, first of all, is not good for him, because it exposes himself to efforts that are disproportionate to his health. But that's not good for the state either, because in such efforts whether it's a health condition, physiological or psychological problem, it can cause consequences not only for him personally, but also for the citizens of Serbia. I'm saying, of course, once again, this law can't have a retroactive fact, so on that side, some are protected, but it's one investment in the future. If we do it today, it won't happen to us that, let's say, we have a president who, say, goes off to open up some oncology clinic yesterday and says, "Now it's going to get a lot better, and then it's going to be fooled, so today that clinic doesn't work, there's no one there, there's no one there, and they don't do machines that are treating everyone, or they're cheating on him, or the man's lying, and that's not good. This would be a prevention if we didn't get some president to promise us a chip factory in Pancheva, "Madudala" or "Mubadala", I don't know which firm of those two, I don't remember at this point, and then there's nothing after that, or that we have a president who makes us that famous channel that connects two river basins, Aegean and Black Sea, and then the Morava River, because it's the most endangered, doesn't know where to go, which side, downstream or upstream. To prevent all this madness, vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35349	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35350	This is the last of the group of health laws, and it concerns MPs. Again to the satisfaction and enthusiasm of the largest number present, it is not for the existing MPs, but again for the future, for the candidates for MPs. Here, some already appear in their enthusiasm and I like to see smiles on the opposite side, because that means I hit something. I see things on the opposite side, but it's my job, what to do, and it's happening because there's been no medical examination for MP candidates ahead of this election. For, if a law was adopted in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Official Messenger has, since then and then, been five-six, in Article 44(2) after point 1), added point 1a, which reads: “The medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state authorities.” This, as in the case of the president, as in the case of a candidate for a member of the Government, means that all candidates for MPs, before they are put on the list, before the electoral commission verifies their candidacy, must go to the doctor's uncle and see if they are healthy, whether they could be MPs, healthy at the level that is necessary, I repeat, for people who work both less complex and less important jobs in the state administration: referents, officials, bureaucrats at the lower or medium level. It's very good, it's necessary. In many countries there is such a bill, such a law, not just a bill, and there are various unusual situations in parliaments, but not as in this House. So I urge you fellow Members to, no matter where this bill does not apply for us, for you, to support this proposal and to allow this highest home, the temple of democracy, the place where the most responsible, the most honest, the best people and people who are healthy, to allow the amendment of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments to be the next meeting to be healthier than this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35351	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35352	This is the second Law on selecting Members of the People, but it's not about the health of MPs, don't be afraid, this is something completely different. It is said in Article 1 that the Law on the Selection of National MPs "Official Messenger" of 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2009, 2011 after Article 49a, which reads - it is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit electoral lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. What's the point? The goal is to protect the citizens of Serbia, and this is our job as MPs, from too much cost, throwing budget money directly or indirectly, honestly or in a criminal way, to throw money on ads that are politically, aesthetically, morally and in any fourth, five, six ways, have no place on any media, let alone the media that have a national frequency. There shouldn't be, of course, commercials like that on other media. Why? Because big money is being thrown, because in the election for the president of the state it is 50m euros, and when the elections are joined, they are local -- presidential or parliamentary -- either presidential or all three levels, or four levels together, then it is the level of money reaching up to 100m euros. With 100m euros, the treatment of all citizens of Serbia can be paid in a few years, not just one year, and we have elections almost every year, so there would always be a good reserve of money for those needs, all those citizens who need treatment abroad because our medical institutions, or health institutions in Serbia, are not yet at that level that they can treat these diseases as well. Here, first of all, I mean sick children, who have every right to receive the help of society, the help of the state, the help and us Members of the people in this way, if we vote for this law, to come to health and to live in some better Serbia that some of the next generations will make. So I ask you to vote for this bill, not to waste money on stupid commercials, where photoshopped politicians wave and lie to you, but to focus that money on treating children and others who need medical attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35353	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the Duvan industry and the involvement in the then state summit, headed by then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 20018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I am in agricultural production, I want this committee to be formed and to have doubts removed from some here, and Zoran Zivkovic is my colleague, a farmer, who insists on a medical examination. I don't think he'd pass a polygraph, an alcoholic test, let alone a medical examination. The truth is, in early 2001, the entire Republic government went to medical examinations, but the federal one in which Zoran Zivkovic was in did not submit to the medical examination. He became prime minister in 2003, and then he didn't think of going to a doctor's appointment. He's the one who canceled the doctor's appointments. So, until then, the Republic government went to medical school, but from the moment he became prime minister, he probably had doubts about his psychophysical abilities and abolished his medical examination. We called him Zoran Politric at the time. Meanwhile, he grew up and became Zoran two liters because he bought a vineyard. Now he just needs half a liter to warm up like when you pull a saug on the car. So in 2007, he took 525,000 euros for the vineyard. Vinograd planted on a plot he leased in November 2007, and the subsidies were sought for spring planting in 2007, and that spring in November was probably somewhere in Africa and other countries, in Australia, but not in Serbia in November 2007. But if you pull the wine as much as you don't need it, then maybe it was warm around his heart when he got 55,000 euros. Zoran Zivkovic is otherwise known as the founder of the Putting company that bought the apartment when he was prime minister in 2003, bought an apartment for 60,000 euros and did not confirm a contract in court for seven years to avoid applying to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Then he bought an apartment at Arena's. Then he bought an apartment on Vrakar and reported a value of 500 euros per square metre, although the actual value is 3,000 euros per square metre. So it's a man who has successfully avoided that full value makes taxes. It is a man whose company is "Empresa" and he himself, under the Criminal Code, is Article 229, accused of tax evasion of 22m euros. So, the man who avoided paying taxes. From tax revenues, he received 525,000 euros... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35355	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35356	Yes, it's an old law that certainly won't get most of it now, because it would lead to the largest number, not all, with several or several honorable exceptions, that all present on the other hand lose their positions, their statuses that they have come to by lying in one way or another in high, higher, medium or basic or complementary education. We had just one example of what happens when there's no law on academic honesty, what happens when there's no medical examination for the selection of MPs. Let's say, it could happen to us, I'm speaking theoretically with the possibility of about 99% that it is possible and practical, that an MP who begins to insult another MP might come to you because he was once prime minister, and that same unfortunate MP voted for that man when he became prime minister. It happened just before that, I'm now speaking a little theoretically, although it's possible 99% and practically, then expelled from that coalition for hygienic reasons because someone told him that his potency was stronger if he didn't bathe, so he applied it for a longer period of time. Rumors are transmitted from his immediate environment that he is still applying this same therapy today. I'm telling you, it's all about why we have to accept that health law, but what we do, it's over, it's unfavourable, it can't go back. It happens, let's say, if there is such an MP, that they feed a few-tenths of the wheat from the stock reserves. Like, it happens to him to accuse his wife of something like that. Look what the disease is. It happens to him that a woman escapes, some other or the same, from him, so she runs from house to house every night to be comforted in some way. We've got to stop it, people. We have to stop it. In the future, we must have a normal country in which MPs will be healthy no matter what they look like and where we will have diplomas as a measure of knowledge and education, not just a piece of paper on which something is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35357	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. So the assembly didn't accept the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35358	Thank you very much. I've been saying that for three years. Three years ago, it was a hundred years ago when in the good part of the world the anniversary of the start of the genocide over the Armenians was marked. I don't understand why the fear of voting for something like this, no one will accuse anyone in Serbia of this genocide. This is a genocide that is the Ottoman Empire, let's say the previous state of what is today called the Republic of Turkey has done over the Armenians and that is a fact that has been established many times. I'll tell you one more time. Twenty-nine countries in the world have brought that resolution into this text. Among other things, it is the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and many other countries, which have introduced such a resolution in their parliaments, thus acknowledging that the genocide, regardless of who or when it is committed, must not be something that can be forgiven. To remind you, you know this, the word genocide is a relatively new word in the world vocabulary, that it was invented after World War II, as a real definition of the intention of someone to destroy an entire nation. So far, three genocides have been defined as relevant in international courts. It's a holocaust genocide in World War II, it's genocide in Rwanda, and it's genocide in Bosnia. That's what international courts have established. I think that the citizens of Serbia, no matter what nations, have the right to demand from their national representatives, and that is us, that in our Parliament we are going through the tradition of these important countries and we are adopting one of these laws, because Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, of all nationalities, the Serbs were most likely the victim of something that may not be called genocide in the right sense of words, but surely it is a pogrom and certainly it is a loss which was, knowingly the wish of some, of course, foreign states and foreigners, and Gods of the last 30 years there have been attempts from within. I think that's enough reason to vote for this motion for a resolution, and I particularly call on colleagues from the SRS to vote in favour of this proposal because they had the same proposal in 2010 that was not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35359	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the law on financing political activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35360	The law regarding that law I proposed earlier, on the choice of MPs, and not about health, but about advertising. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties, pardon activities, Article 1 of the Law on the financing of political activities, Official Messenger No 43/2011, 123/2014, and Article 23(3). - is deleted, and Article 2 is deleted. - this law enters into force eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger. What are we supposed to do? There is no funding, no advertising funding on electronic media and other media for all proposals from political party candidates, electoral lists and all those participating in the elections actively. And that's, I've already said some arguments, spending a lot of money on it. When one election, let's say this last Belgrade, was almost 30m euros, I said when two or three are different, or four different levels of choice, it goes or comes to at least 100m, which is quite enough for many great things, and above all I gave exactly where to spend this great money on Serbian citizens, not sponsors. With no sponsors for political campaigns, those who give money as sponsors are some who stole money along with corrupt politicians from the state, from the budget, meaning Serbian citizens. And that money should be used to treat children and other Serbian citizens, whose diseases require treatment abroad. The question will be asked -- and how will the citizens of Serbia come up with information on what, which candidate, what, which political party, what, which election list offers in the local province, parliamentary or presidential elections? I've already spoken before, one 50, 60 years ago, I know it's hard to come to your knowledge, but 50, 60 years ago, there was something called a direct confrontation of candidates. A pre-election program, where candidates talk about their programs, and then they go into discussion with each other about their programs. I know it's something that's completely new to you and what's like this, it scares you based on your being, but believe me, there's nothing wrong with it, it's just that you can see who's lying, and who's stealing, who's telling the truth, who's banging, who's having the basis for what he's offering as his pre-election program to Serbian citizens. It happens everywhere. In all countries, almost all countries, not just those countries where your centuries-old friends came from, those who first recognised Kosovo, those who participated in Serbia's bombing in 1999, but in some less normal countries, it is a daily situation and that is how to reach election proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35361	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the assets of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. You want to explain? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35362	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zivkovic is trying to accuse someone, but should he answer a simple question – is the auction in the Indji municipality for the lease of agricultural land on which he allegedly planted the vineyard only at the end of July 2007? Is it true that his opponent was "Agrounia", owned by MK commercials? Te, is it true that both the company and the other and the winery "Zivkovic" and "Agrouniu" represented the same man, Branko Đurić, director of "Agrounia", or one of the directors of MK Komperica? A man competed with himself. Also, Mr. Zivkovic should say whether he owned the companies "Putin", "Interface", "Roal Speed", "Technomeding", winery "Zivkovic", "Empresa", "TV 5", "Deltamat", "Milenium", "KK ergon", is a basketball club? Is it true that his wife worked at the Zivkovic Winery? Is it true that KO Krajkovac, two plots, owned by Biserka Zivkovic, from the Merošin municipality, served to register agricultural land in 2007 in July, in India? Is that true or not? Is it true that this lady, who knew he was breaking the law, is working in the war crimes prosecutor's office today and persecuting Serbs? Is it true that she was admitted there without a state exam, and I got the answer that it was true, with a promise to pass it? Is it true that the lady was even the head of legislation in the Government of the Republic of Serbia even though her experience was only in wine production? Is it true that "Empresa" has silenced 22 million dinar taxes? Is it true that he was the director of the Empress? Is it true that multiple criminal charges have been filed against him? He should answer that. Of course, they'll say we're all lying. Is it true about the goods reserves, that in this same Krcedin, he had a covert property, that the man who approved it, Dobrivoje Sudjum, approved his vineyard, that a deficit was found, Mr Arsic knows, of 22,500 tonnes. That's what he's trying to pin on me. As far as hygiene habits go, I wouldn't talk about it, it's a personal matter. I can't be as beautiful as Mr. Zivkovic, I can't buy an apartment on Vrakar for 500 euros per square, I can't buy an apartment at Arena, I can't buy two apartments at Nis. It was all given to him by the authority that I voted for, that's true, but we voted for the piety to the late Djindjic. And finally, on the subject of bathing, if we water Zoran Zivkovic, you know what we're gonna get? Dirty water and a clean thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35363	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one with abstentions – has. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35364	Thank you very much. This is a bill I've been proposing for a very long time. The law was adopted in a completely or almost identical text in 2003 and was then declared a law that should impose order in this area, but unfortunately, the first next government has not applied that law, and today we have an urban jungle all over Serbia, where everything lives in this jungle, but what do we do, it is precisely due to the fact that there has been no medical examinations for anyone, nor for that next government. What was the main thing about this bill, in fact, what's the main thing now, and then in the law that was passed, was the fundamental value? The basic value was that a prison sentence was provided for whoever started the construction without a building permit. That means, before it's approved, you have to get a building permit and everything that's necessary next to it and the approval it tells him tomorrow, you can start building. Without that, if he stabs an ace into the ground without permission, he goes to jail. If the law were in place, we would have a much better chance of both Belgrade and other Serbian cities, where there would be no wild investment, wild buildings and savages that led to it, whether they were wild investors or wild local officials or wild officials, without a medical examination at a higher state level. In any case, order would have been introduced. This is how he had what was happening to us. I'd like you to at least get enough courage, honor, or whatever, who can dial it up and vote everyone for this law and put it in order. To prevent Belgrade from becoming famous not for something on the water, but not to become famous for what we have today, which is the largest wild construction site in the history of Europe, which is what Belgrade is called on water or these wild construction sites are in the fall, you want from the Prince of Michael, over the singing fountain and La Dacic, to what I don't know, whatever other things were made in the last five, six years in this city, which is prone to fall, dangerous to life, and certainly serves the shame of this entire city. Therefore, I voted just now for a survey committee that was proposed only because this parliament and "five friends" were unlike any other in the world, as such was the proponent of the idea. Vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35365	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Society "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35366	The Committee should establish the responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia for the withdrawal of the work permit to the Insurance Action Society "Such Insurance" Kragujevac because of the technical reserve shortages were then mentioned at a time when they were above the market average. Also, to establish responsibility for the destroyed reputation of the owner of "Such Insurance" Kragujevac, to establish responsibility for 408 employees who were then out of work, to determine whether there was an agreement between the legal service of the National Bank of Serbia to withdraw the work permit for this insurance and whether there was no need to withdraw the work permit in the winding-up process of the Shareholder Insurance Company "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. The Committee of Auditors has the right to request from state authorities, etc., this other part is the same as for all other committees of inquiry. What's the point? The goal is to establish one malversion, because this is private insurance from Kragujevac, meaning it is not privatisation but a private property sale, it has found a good buyer who was at that time, and today it is one of the big players in the insurance area across Europe, but it has bothered one other insurance that is also private, but in close, intimate, perverse, financial and other relations with the top of the Serbian government, and the sale has prevented that other perverse insurance in those relations that I said would not win competition. It all happened a few years ago. So 408 people are out of work, or 408 families, which is practically one quarter of all those who are still working in the "Fiat" and I hope that "Fiat", regardless of all the announcements, will remain to work. But we'll hardly be able to bring any normal, serious, healthy investor, not small-time con artists who come here just because they're the lowest salaries in the euro area and because half of these salaries are paid by the state for the next ten years, but because they'll want to invest in a normal state, in which they'll be respected by law, in which the rights of workers will be respected, in which there will be a healthy parliament, a healthy Parliament, a healthy government, a healthy president of the state, and where there will be no repeat of what happened to us in Old Rome, when one of the emperors introduced a horse where we don't need it. I'm afraid there are some outsiders out there that this country looks like the entire ergel has gone where it doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35367	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. No more of your suggestions. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the Indji Municipality, Goran Jesic and the unintended spending of funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Indjia, as I have already stated, has already been identified on the matter of my fellow farmer. The bid scheduled is due in the summer of 2007, for the spring planting of 2007. The contract was signed only in November. The spring planting in November didn't exist. Mr. Zivkovic is out, so he can't see confirmation that I'm not being investigated, that I don't have a firm, that I've never been to the Stock Reserve Directorate. He had it all. This is an announcement that an investigation is being conducted against him. The company is called "Empresa". It's the same firm that sold the stakes and the wire. I ask Nišli, did Zoran Zivkovic have a company that produced stakes and wires? It's a big payoff from the state register, in this same wine line competition. He didn't have that kind of production, but he had 138,000 bottles of wine that went missing. Here are the tax rulings for both of the crimes he's committed. In connection with the criminal report I showed, the official criminal application, tax evasion, was missing 138,000 bottles of wine, the value of 189 million dinars, VAT 17 million and 800,000, plus another tax, a total of 22 million dinars. There's his statement, there's everything. However, Zoran Zivkovic fled and refused to respond. Also, there's a doctor's report. When he constantly invites us to medical examinations, this is his, where they say – the chronic discomfort of everyday life towards himself and the environment, and includes significant subjective and social problems, it is about the specific lifestyle of the person and her relationship with others, the antisocial type, the unscrupulous person who is exclusively focused on his own interest, prone to breaking rules and prone to aggression, often seeking sensations in the outside environment, has no developed empathy, nor cares for other people's feelings. And he's looking for medical exams! Now, that's Zoran Zivkovic. I've thought for a long time he's acting crazy, but now I'm convinced he's not acting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35369	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35370	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I have been trying for two years to convince the ruling majority of the SNS that we should discuss mechanisms to prevent corruption in our society. The Serbian Progressive Party does not want to hear the debate at all about introducing some mechanism to prevent political corruption in our country. People usually think that political parties are corrupt and you give them the right to believe so, because you don't want to put them on the agenda and talk about amending the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and introducing integrity plans into political parties. So we're asking the people who run the institutions in this country and every institution to bring a plan of integrity, but we don't want to ask ourselves, or political parties. Why? So that in political parties, he can do whatever he wants, and he can do whatever he wants. People who are members of political parties, they are also educated for a job that will work when the state institutions take over. This is where ethics are taught and brought up, as we all train in our families. Why won't you allow political parties to be governed on the principle of ethics and that these people in political parties don't learn to steal and then apply it to state institutions? What is the problem for the SNS to define, with one integrity plan, what are the difficult places for corruption in the political party, how money is spent in political parties, how political parties collect money, how political parties are financed by the regular work of political parties, how the campaign works. I don't think the members of the SNS want this because they could, as they themselves admitted, play the law by giving more donations than they can under the law, higher levels, giving other people money to pay in his name on behalf of the political party for financing the political party. That, gentlemen, is not allowed under the law. Let's talk about how to prevent these phenomena. This law would be a start for parliamentary parties, and then we can extend it to others. If you really want to fight corruption, then you have to vote and discuss this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35371	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35372	Thank you. So for three years, I suggest that the property tax law be amended. Why should the property tax law be amended? Because the property tax is too large and citizens don't have the money to pay that property tax. Since the SNS came to power in 2013, you changed this law and raised the property tax to individual owners by 200 and 300%. Three hundred percent of you raised people's property taxes, they have to pay for it if they don't pay for their apartments. Who can't pay that one has to sell the apartment. Who do you want to sell the apartment to? The one who's been rich in the last five or six years. Only they have money, but there aren't enough customers for all the apartments the citizens need to sell and move somewhere where the property tax is cheap. Why are we doing this? Because it doesn't do business well enough so it has to fill the budget from citizens' pockets? So, at the same time, the price of electricity was raised, new excises introduced, VAT raised, you raise your property tax. Reduce your pensions and raise your property tax. Our citizens are twice as poor as they were. I proposed this law not to pay property tax up to 25 square feet per member of the family household. Do you think it's a luxury that a four-member family lives in an apartment of 60, 70 or 80 square meters? It's not a luxury, it's a constitutional right, it's a human right that people have the right to enjoy their property, to have the right to live in an apartment that is conditional, 25 square meters has always been minimum per family household member. People like that shouldn't pay property taxes. Whoever has two, three, four or five apartments is fine with us taxing him five times as much, because it's a luxury. It's not a luxury living in an 80-square apartment for a four-member family. What about you? How long are you going to raise your taxes now? The city of Belgrade made a decision ahead of the elections to raise 2% more property taxes, and then the decision was suspended while the elections, according to Goran Vesic, are now over and we can expect 2%, 15%, 50%, 100%. How much? There's no limit. This law also suggested that there is a limit, that taxes cannot rise more than 7% annually so that citizens can predict what will happen in the part of Serbia where they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35373	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35374	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing election laws for years in this House. Most of them exist to change the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but there is no political will. I think there is a consensus in society, that is, the consent of all citizens that the Law on selecting Members of Parliament is not good. Nothing is good, because half of Serbia's municipalities do not have any MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Because Serbia is one electoral unit. Because there is no way to hear the voice of certain parts of Serbia here, because there are no MPs coming from those parts. You won't change that. You won't talk about it at all. You mentioned constitutional changes, and you do not want to discuss the issue that has been identified between the Constitution and the election system. There's no problem with us talking about it and changing everything that's wrong in our electoral system. The problem is that the SNS won't do it, and they won't because they have a majority in RIK with their coalition partners and they can do whatever they want. You gentlemen do whatever you want in the election. We've all watched on TV, after last parliamentary election, the circus as individual sacks open up in front of the cameras. It is not the election result at the polling post where it would have to be established, but your president of the electoral commission says – we will now determine how it was in this place, and in this second place we will not later determine. What did we all see? We all saw then that in one polling post 60 SDS votes ended up in an SNS envelope and nothing, no one answered for it. So we saw that the votes were stolen and no one's answering for it, and you're not going to change the law in order to prevent the theft of the election in the future, because it suits you. You don't have, gentlemen, most of them, you don't have 50%, and then you have to take the day of the election and steal as much as you're missing. So that's the main motive why SNS won't do it. We've been pointing out for three years exactly what needs to be changed, how to implement the law that everyone must have a member of the election board at the polling station, not to put us in a position that only you are in the KIM territory that are on election boards, that votes are counted elsewhere, and there is no one in the opposition present.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35375	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35376	I have offered two variants of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, because if you don't want to discuss fundamental reforms, let's talk about changing what we saw was not good at parliamentary, which was not good in the presidential elections and that we adopt such changes. We are all witnessing the analysis of the previous presidential election. One candidate had 92% of his time on TV, all the other candidates together had 8%. How is that possible? This is possible because the ruling coalition and the ruling candidate abuse the election process. The European Commission also noted in its 2018 report, according to the OSCE. Do you gentlemen think that we should get out of the OSCE that we started because we don't respect the recommendations that the OSCE makes. Do you think that we should not go to the EU and every day you talk about some chapters that are opening to God, and in fact none other than those that were opened six months ago and a year ago? What do you want? Do you want to join the EU or do you not want to join the EU? Do you want to keep up with the world or not? You can't if the election theft is conducted by only you participate in the campaign and no one else can. You abuse your government functions, you abuse your campaign members' functions. Functions must be separated from campaigns in the election process. You can't ride in a state car and black limos all over Serbia at the time of the campaign. Those limos aren't yours. That's what the citizens of this country pay for. You can't run this country's campaign for money. That's all we suggested to change in these laws. You don't agree to that. You don't agree to arrange funding through the media. Tens of millions of euros are being thrown into financing a media campaign. That's 95% of every campaign. Since no one in the opposition has the money, they can't even have the videos, because you're the only one with the money you have tens of millions to throw on the videos. You better give that money for something else. Why don't we change the law if we know how much time anyone has to represent, what time and how many spots they have. It will be paid from the budget to anyone participating in the elections, and it is a parliamentary party. Why are you running away from fair terms? You're afraid, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35377	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the time of Sasa Radulovic and 14 bankruptcys, took place while Boris Tadic was president of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party, headed by him only when he was president, was then immediately dismissed. They only needed him when he was the man in charge, filling their pockets. He filled his pockets and Sasha Radulovic, and filled his pockets with God's pockets and those who divided themselves into several goals. Boris Tadic usually went on foot in the campaign. He took the black limo. His limo had pink Tuffins. So they went on foot in the campaign when he was president of the Republic of Serbia, probably that he and Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Mirko Bledi, were on foot together. Their ministers all went on foot. Dragged by reindeer, in the winter period. So that's the same reindeer and Christmas bat, with the amendments that this MP's group is writing. Let's get this thing serious, they're rebelling against election rules. The election is conducted according to your rules. Those are the rules you've made. What if we had changed the rules? If the elections were to take place under our laws, which some new majority would have made, that the rules were about the elections of this majority. You object to the elections held under your terms. You're talking about the media war. Social networks have been far poorer since 2012, so fewer people have been on social networks. Censorship is almost impossible, but in 2012, you were censoring. The opposition at that time had, on Copernicus were two leased terms of an hour or two in total. I'm asking you who controls Blitz? Who controls Nin, Time, Weekly, Today, do you want us to make people buy "Today"? These are certainly not media favoring the current government. They're fond of you. Who controls B92, who controls N1, American TV, who controls TV First? Nobody. Do any of the reporters have heard that someone from the ruling party or the ruling parties called him to let the authorities broadcast. You've all been doing it. You were the last to object. An affair must be investigated and why Boris Tadic agreed with Albanians in 2008 to declare independence and, therefore, on February 17th, two days after the declaration fled to Romania. A survey committee must be set up to see if that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35379	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35380	Dear colleagues, I have proposed to amend the Law on Local Elections, the local elections are most likely next year, and as we must amend the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, we must and the Law on Local Elections. I'm sorry my colleagues don't read the paper, so they don't know what the paper says and what it says in "Blic" and who controls "Blic". It is clear that the newspaper is controlled by the current party in power, which is the SNS. Whether there were any problems with the bankruptcy led by Sasa Radulovic, I suppose he knows the SNS best because SNS and Vukic proposed him as government minister, so he was at the SNS government of the economy, probably qualified by those bankruptcys. So, Radulovic is your man, you invented him. You brought him to the government. You made him a minister, so you didn't determine whether he had made any malfeasances before or not. The bill on the election of MPs was passed in 2000. It was signed by Milan Milutinovic. Well, you can see with Milan Milutinovic and those who were in his time in power why this law is so and whether it should be changed or not. We believe that it should change and that this Law on Local Elections should also be amended and most of it is needed. Unfortunately, we didn't have that majority to amend the election law, and now the powerful coalition certainly has most. Well, gentlemen, change that law if you think that law is wrong. I thought it wasn't right, and today I think it's a bad law. You've done everything you can to play the law and abuse it. Now that it's determined exactly what needs to be changed to prevent the abuse of SNS in the election, run away from it and say it can't even come to the agenda. Let's discuss it. What's the problem with these laws coming up on the agenda? Why are you afraid to talk to the opposition about the issues the opposition is proposing? Why can't you accept one of the 150 laws to be on the agenda? What are you afraid of, SNS gentlemen? He's just arguing about what you're suggesting. There is no one but you. No one else can say anything. Give us a chance to discuss the laws, there are 150 in the procedure the opposition has proposed. Give us a chance to discuss some amendment proposed by the opposition, but you suggest 300 to the title so no one else can say what they think about these laws. It's only abuse that you rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35381	I'd just like to ask you to pass the law along with this initiative, so maybe we're proposing something, since we get from session to session only paper without the bill. You're an old Parliamentarian. You know how to propose law. What can I tell you? I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there is no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the establishment of a tax on registered citizens' income. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed another law that, I suppose, hurts the current government so it won't talk about it, and that's the law on determining taxes on undeclared citizens' income. In other words, it is a law on the origin of property, or as citizens already call it – aunt's law. Why aunt's law? Because he's tied to the affair of Minister Vulin, where the Anti-Corruption Agency felt he could not justify where he got 200,000 euros to buy an apartment. Well, since he couldn't explain where he got it from, he said he got it from his aunt from Canada. It's clear to all of us that that's not true. But this law does not only apply to Minister Vulin, it refers to all citizens, that all citizens from 2000 to today say whether they had taxed income so much that they could acquire the property they have today. This law affects everything – both the former government and the current government since 2000. There's no reason not to adopt him. Let's check with one law who got what, did he have the origin of that money, did he get the income, did he pay the tax on that income? If not, he'll be taken 20%, 40% or 60%, as we suggest, of the assets compared to what he can't justify. You're talking about fighting corruption, but you're using inefficient mechanisms just to keep it on the line. The story was that Miskovic was the most corrupt man or man who corrupted the most and nothing. There, criminal proceedings were conducted, led, led, and nothing. Why won't we pass a law that will examine how each of us acquired property? What's the problem? Are they afraid of those who have enormously increased property in the last five years? You're most of them. It's not most of them who've acquired it before. You're most of them, let's talk about it and figure out who acquired the property, did he pay his taxes? If he didn't pay his taxes, that property has to be paid back or the tax has to be paid. How do you prevent corruption? We have 10 billion euros, that's a third of GDP in the gray economy. That gray money is actually money that triggers corruption. You raise taxes to take from those who pay taxes, and those who illegally earn income, you take nothing from them, or you tax them because their income is illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35383	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of the former president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. Do you want to explain the proposal? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35384	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the previous speaker wished to deceive this assembly. Says – Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia, "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 111/2007. In 2007, there were Martians in power, not Boris Tadic. This is funny to him. It says second "Official Messenger", number 104/2009. Also, the yellow Martians were in power, were not Democrats and was not Boris Tadic. The Law on Local Elections – there are, 129/2007, 34/2010, the Law on the Selection of National MPs 57/2003, 71/2003, 18/2004, 85/2005. So, more than once, the DS has adapted itself to the laws on the election of the president, on local elections, on the election of MPs. So now we have seen clearly and loudly who is telling the truth and who is telling the truth. As far as Radulovic is concerned, he was found at the end of 2013 and was not in the government of Aleksandr Vukic, but in the Government of Mr Dacic. So he's doing the full truth. And he wasn't admitted there as a bankruptcy manager. When it was determined what he was doing during the Democratic Party, that he was leading 14 bankruptcys, that the court had taken away one bankruptcy, that he had been punished for bankruptcy, when he tried to get the bankruptcy agency to look at itself, he was fired. So we got rid of him very quickly. But the consequences of the joint criminal enterprise, where 400,000 people were fired, between Boris Tadic, the bankruptcy directors and the former regime's party remained. There are 400,000 people left without a job and certainly no colleague will try to disprove it. As for Boris Tadic, I already said, he fled to Romania on February 17th. Yes or no? Everyone here who followed the policy more closely knows that it happened, as they know that along with Vuk Jeremic, who I will talk about later, projected Kosovo independence, significantly improved even that independence, built that independence for many years, agreed with the US Embassy, and I will certainly talk about it more extensively. So I think it is necessary to form a survey committee to determine whether there was a high treason by the president of the Republic of Serbia, who was the first man to protect the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia? Has he sold part of the territory in which the wild state of Kosovo was declared or not, for his 2008 election, sold to the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35385	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35386	I thank the president. Dear People's MPs, who knows which time in a row I propose a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. I have offered this bill many times and the Minister of Education and Education and MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, because it is one thing that should be unquestionable to all of us, which is to bring the Law on Local Self-Government into line with the Law on Student and Student Standards. So, to enable the presidents of the municipalities, the mayors, to be able to scholarship the best students and the best students from their midst without breaking the law and not be terrified of whether the state auditor will come to them and file criminal charges. Unfortunately, I've been proposing this law for two years, but it's not on the agenda. Even the minister promised me, at one of the sessions, that the government would propose this law, agreed with me, but it seems to you, here, fellow Members, is not interested. Because as long as you don't hear the bells, you don't vote for those things that are of general interest and that I'm sure you agree and that many of you in the halls come and tell me after the sessions as they are for it, but you can't vote because you don't have a warrant. So I'll remind you that the intellectual potential of a country is equal to the potential of gold, oil and other natural resources. We spend it in vain and should not be surprised that Serbia faces a mass exodus of working people of Serbia, but more and more students who go and don't go back to Serbia, because they don't want to plan their future here, in a country like this, with such an authoritative regime, which only thinks about their citizens when they need to go to them to seek a safe voice, a capular voice or anything related to their policy. In all other variants, they actually exist for this country and for this government. Therefore, I think it would be much smarter to invest in young people, in students, in gifted students the money you provided for Belgrade's 360 million gondola, or, say, 50 million dinars you gave for the China Co-operation Office, former President of the Republic of Nikolic and all sorts of other things you throw money at, but when it comes to students, when it comes to their families, you will not put this law on the agenda. But that's why you were able to pass the law very effectively and to abolish free textbooks, because you think it's such a good standard of living and that the parents in Serbia make a lot of money, that they can get their students and their children to provide their books without a problem. I urge you to put this law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35387	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35388	Thank you. Also, this is a very important law that I have proposed two years ago, concerning the business of private entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia, domestic entrepreneurs, not foreigners. I propose this law that all those employed over a period of two years on an indefinite period of time have a certain number of workers as a basis for tax cuts in the amount of paid earnings with contributions and that all those who operate and start new businesses in underdeveloped economic areas in Serbia be exempt from paying taxes within three years. You don't accept that law, but that's why you're all the other influences you could adopt, and as far as our domestic entrepreneurs are concerned, you've adopted it. You announced that you would change more than 40 laws, you declared a year of entrepreneurship while one of the economy ministers was Minister Sertic in 2016. From all of this, our businessmen got only bigger taxes, they got debts for VAT returns, they got harrases that go and oust their various charges. But on the other hand, you from half-empty budgets are without a problem worshiping various foreign companies that receive tens of thousands of euros per worker, who treat our employees as slaves, and in the meantime our entrepreneurs are struggling to maintain their business. Today, there are 36,000 domestic businesses blocked in Serbia. The amount of the blockade is 2.5 billion euros. This is the result of your policy that you implement towards small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why in Serbia today, with 30% barely participating in the creation of GDP, small and medium-sized enterprises, while the EU average is 58%, in Bulgaria 60%, in Croatia 51.6%. You owe 30 billion to our contractors to recover the VAT. You're talking about some kind of well-being in the budget, a lot of cash, etc. This is why Serbia today is the country that has the lowest minimum earnings in the region, less than all countries, both Montenegro and Macedonia and Bosnia, etc. As for the average net wages, Serbia today ranks less than Angola, Libya, Zambia, Congo and other similar countries with which we, unfortunately, are comparable today with your authority. Finally, as you see Serbia's economy, the best example is the Kaisen firm in Smederevo, which forced its workers to work overtime and did not pay them the work. This is a real example of the investment and the economy you see in Serbia. That's why the People's Party will never support such a policy. At the centre of our policy, there will be small and medium-sized enterprises and economic development, we will base on domestic economy, not on which foreigners who treat our workers as slaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35389	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35390	Thank you. After the adoption of a set of laws in the media area, which your authority adopted, there was a total darkness in Serbia, there was darkness under parole that the state would come out of the ownership structure of the media, but you only dropped one thing to say, which is that you will continue to control the media through finance, because today you through project financing, with which you have made a corrupt mechanism for financing the media close to the authorities, the state money, the money of Serbian citizens finance those media that are close to you and who write and talk about the praises of this authority. It's been going on for the seventh year in a row. One senseless media propaganda is in place, with the idea of the truth being replaced by lies. In fact, you want to manipulate citizens, tell them that in Serbia there is prosperity, how Serbia is developing, how Serbia is progressing, and in Serbia it is getting worse and worse every day. But don't forget that Serbian citizens will wake up one day. They've woken up before when some others lied to them. He'll wake up now. The moment will come. That's why I invite you, if what I'm saying is not true, to form this polling committee and deny me and say that it is not so, that in Serbia today there are not a few people close to the SNS, including Mr. Gasic, the BIA chief, who owns a large number of local media. Dismiss me. Please deny me that local self-government budgets are being financed today by media on which no one but SNS officials should appear on these media. Here, a media strategy has now been announced. The prime minister and the president of the state decided that what Minister Vukosavljevic announced was withdrawn from the procedure, which is a new media strategy. Well, what do you need a new media strategy if you don't know what you've done by adopting a set of media laws? That's why I'm proposing a survey committee to determine the current situation, and then after that, a normal media strategy can be created. But you don't want to do it, because if it did, all the lies would be revealed, all the lies of this regime. If you free the media, if you dare to come to a duel on a television show with anyone from the opposition at a public service or on any other television with a national frequency, your lies would be exposed, and that's your problem. The President of the Republic for the past six years, for the seventh year, he has not dared enter the studio and discuss with anyone what he knows to talk to the leaders, with his various singers or actors who are prone to him and walk in his hair as he speaks and deceives Serbian citizens. We are in favour of free journalism, free media and the People's Party will, at the moment it is able to completely change this situation, this media dictatorship faced by Serbian citizens for six years, not because of us, but because of citizens of Serbia living and because of the Republic of Serbia as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35391	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-sufficient, will ever be able to do so. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35392	Thank you. I propose this law to allow local communities in the territory of cities and municipalities to have independent funding, that part of the property tax that is collected on their territories is allocated to them, not to depend on any self-will or mood of any president of the municipality or mayor, to give them some church from the budget, not to depend on the finance minister, not to depend on the prime minister, but to decentralised power in Serbia and to give money where it is created, where it is collected, where the state is charged by people, to enable these people to decide what it will invest in, and not to have someone come and some party tell them – e, you will get money this time, but let's see how many safe votes you have in this section to get those funds. Now, it's called corruption, the corruption you've been conducting in all of Serbia for six years, institutional corruption, abuse of the state institute, the Republic, local self-government, abuse of the budget institute. So you centralized Serbia instead of decentralisation it. When you came to power, one of the promises was to decentralisation Serbia. What do we have today? Centralization is bigger than ever. Every year there are growing pressures and commitments to local self-government, and fewer giving. In just one day you took 10 billion changes to the Law on the financing of local self-government, but therefore you don't mind that during the year the prime minister can decide which municipalities are similar, which are not, that the budget says that for the current liquidity of five, 10, 20 or 30 million dinars or as Belgrade, let's say, 100 million you gave to Belgrade, which you say stands financially great, that expert Sinisha Mali did such a good job, that as a reward you should give him to be Minister of Finance. So there are also those cities and municipalities in Serbia that you can see for yourself who have decided this as a Capac or once Tristenik, until the government has changed, and who have introduced participatory budgeting, where citizens could vote for themselves which projects they will implement in their territories. Of course, it's not your responsibility for the state to govern the people, to govern democracy, to suit your dictatorship, to manage the one who's the chief chief, and everyone else to be servants. Your boss suits you, and that's how you set up this system in Serbia. I'll just tell you that it can't produce results, not in those reforms you announced, not in the fight against corruption, not in the development of the economy, not in anything. So, Serbia goes back every day. Look at the reports of the European Commission over the last six years, each one is worse than the last one. It is a clear indicator and a real indicator of what Serbia is going through today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35393	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35394	Thank you. When you came to power, quote, you said that you would consider agriculture as a key industrial branch and strategic activity that is dedicated to special importance and treatment, that the agrarian budget would be significantly increased and its height should be at least 5% of the budget in 2012 with a minimum increase of 1% in each year. Six years you've been ruling, he's not even 5% today, he's below 5%. While you didn't come to power in 2012, citizens, or Serbian farmers, were getting 12,000 per hectare, today getting two, the premiums were bigger, the subsidies were bigger, the regressions for diesel, fuel and fertilizer existed. You're the one who cut it all off today. So, farmers feel the results of your authority on their skin, and I'm sorry that you don't realize that in Serbia today, small agricultural family holdings are the largest employer in Serbia. In 630,000 landowners work over a million and a half people and provide existence for themselves and for their families. The biggest employer and they're not recognized in the budget, because they can't make the turn. There are many different Turks, Arabs, Germans you have to help, because one of you has promised, probably your president. He promised the Germans would come, the French would come, the Turks should give them all money, but that's not how agriculture develops. You will not develop agriculture by adopting a special medicine for Tennessee and its meat industry, nor for the Arabs you gave 10,000 acres of oracies to in Vojvodina. You will develop agriculture, and you will only develop Serbia when you turn to our farmer and farmer, our businessman and our entrepreneur, and when you give them money, but you do not like it because you cannot take pictures. You need Kobajagi foreigners to do media events and through these media, which you control, you represent this power as a wizard who has more work in Serbia today than there are workers. There are no more employees in Serbia. The farmers are happy, except there's no one to buy them anti-building missiles, to defend them from the city. Look these days, almost all over Serbia, farmers face the city and they are left praying to God that God will save them, because the state cannot pay the shooters, pay them by 4,000 dinars per month, cannot pay for the anti-building missiles, but it can therefore give subsidies both "Tenis" and Arabs 10,000 hectares of fertile oracres in Vojvodina, but our farmer can pay even the most expensive oil in the region, can have all the burdens to be as competitive as possible with farmers from the environment. That's why the peasant goes down today, and the Serbia state goes down, because you're not able to figure out what it would mean and what good it would be for Serbia if you invested in our peasants and our agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35395	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – four. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy on shareholders from the First Petoletka system Trstenik. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35396	So, I have proposed that this survey committee be formed to determine the facts and circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy on stock companies from the First Five-year-old system. I read it carefully to make it sound. So, under one completely unusual circumstance, you have shown all the crime and corruption of this government that is today managing Serbia. So, the company, that is, part of the companies that had no obligation to the commercial creditors, you forced banks to go bankrupt with the fraud of workers to volunteer for a social programme, to hire them into a new firm and thus create a condition for the introduction of bankruptcy. After that, a new company is formed, a private one, led by the same people who led the Five-year-old to bankruptcy. It's just that it's now a limited-responsibility society, but it's continued to benefit both social property and social capital and everything citizens have created for forty-nine years. Under these circumstances, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks of Banks and Banks has allowed them to gain re-pro-materials, supplies and finished products and continue to sell it at 10 times higher prices to the same companies with which the First Petoletka worked while it was a social enterprise. Today, workers are not receiving salaries like 40 or 50,000 dinars, but they are receiving 20 and 25 thousand, because today they are not all indefinitely employed there, but are working on work contracts per month. That's how you see Serbia today and Serbia's development, but that's why those owners, their employers who taught them to do it take everything for themselves, and it'll last until they suck out everything that's left in that company. Not to mention the bankruptcy with the Court of Auditors, where the Kingdom's bankruptcy judge granted a request to a newly founded company of 170 million dinars, 170 million dinars to a company that did not exist when parts of the First Five-years went bankrupt. I'd like someone to explain to me how this claim was created. If you're sure I'm wrong, please put this on the agenda so we can determine the situation and the facts. Now I'm telling you, I'm going to apologize to all of you, the citizens of Serbia and the workers of "First Five-years and the citizens of Triestenik, if I'm wrong, but let's get things out of the way and see who's responsible today for what's two thousand people on the street, which is why those who stayed there in a private company have no security or any future. So, by abuse of laws, institutions, corruption and crime, you have created a system that cannot sustain Serbia and not only "Friends", but also those...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35397	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts, circumstances concerning the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in the part of the city known as Savamal on 25 April 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35398	So, more than two years have passed since one part of the Serbian state suspended rule of law, the law, suspended state, and that is Herzegovica Street, when under cover of night was torn down by a number of objects and until today, Serbian citizens had not received information on who was the taskmaster, who was behind the destruction of the facilities in Savamala, why it was done, who were those who destroyed the buildings with the baggers, who were those who tied up the citizens who were in that street that night, took away the mobile phones, who did not respond, or gave the order to the institutions, to the police not to react in that case. I ask you -- would you feel comfortable if someone from your family had found themselves and been tied up by people with phantoms in the middle of Belgrade, downtown Belgrade? It doesn't happen in normal, organized societies, law-ruling societies. The President of the Republic said more than a year ago that responsibility for it was borne by idiots from the top of the city, but until today he didn't say who these idiots were. Is that Sinisha Mali? Is this the same Sinisha Mali who then turned out well in that crash action, so now as a reward, she gets a portfolio of finances, so she'll be the finance minister, because she's an affair expert with 45 bank accounts, 24 apartments, etc. Or is someone else responsible? Maybe the president himself? Answer the citizens of Serbia. I'm sure that's not Goran Stamenkovic, who made a deal with the prosecutor's office and who admitted to the guilt that he was unconsciously doing his job in the police, when the citizens called and reported that someone was tying them there, he didn't react, he didn't invite his colleagues to say – hey, don't do that. Or maybe this Stamenkovic himself was driving a bugger or did that Stamenkovic give himself a warrant? Probably that shift chief, at that point, the police are the main culprit for taking down a part of the city. It will be a symbol of your rule, remember the symbol of Alexander Vukic's rule, and all of you will be the way you destroyed the buildings in downtown Belgrade and that in two years, you probably never found the responsible ones who made the baggers ugly during the night. In doing so, you mock the citizens of Serbia, you promise to find the culprits, promises the President of the Republic, points to some idiots from the top of Belgrade's government, but here goes month after month, year after year, and we have neither the employer nor the culprit for what happened 24 April two years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35399	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. The MP Alexic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35400	So, of course, this government centralises Serbia year after year more and more and more, and this is clearly seen in relation to local self-government, where they have less and less independence from year to year. In the normal countries of Europe, over 50% of the funds go to local self-government accounts. It's 11% in Serbia. In some developed countries of the world and 90% go directly to local self-government, because it is the money of citizens who live there, but in Serbia it must all come in one register, to one boss, and then he will see who listens better and who listens worse, so he will give them charity. Well, it's not his. It was not left to him by his father or grandfather, it was the money of the Serbian citizens, the money of the people. He only disposes of them, is available to them as he has the property of Serbia, because citizens gave him the opportunity to keep the property of Serbian citizens, not to sell it, and to negotiate with Thaci and Haradinaj how he would separate part of Serbia's territory. It is not his grandfather's, it is the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, as far as this funding is concerned, you transferred 40m euros to municipalities and cities in Serbia in one day last year without any criteria, December 29, 2017. Years. Before that, you often worshiped Nis with hundreds, 150 million, Kragujevac with 200-300 million, Belgrade with 100 million, this Belgrade that flourished since you created an 83 thousand-euro tree, a mast, 54 fountains you will make, arranged for Slavija and gave them 100 million dinars, although there is a financial expert Sinisa Mali with her first assistant, Goran Vesic, but you do not want the system. That is why I propose this law, that income tax be paid to citizens in cities and municipalities in which they live return to the amount in which, and pay in that register, not that the whole of Serbia is working so that you here represent "Belgrade on Water" as I do not know what kind of project that will start all of Serbia. I haven't heard from any citizen of Nis, Leskovec, Sombora or Capca who said he was better today than he was three years or four years ago, when you started working "Belgrade on the Water". But you want to take all of Serbia's citizens, because there is no system and then you have your own will and your own means of doing so by the citizens of Serbia. But don't deceive Serbian citizens anymore. You understand that, it's not money, it's not pensions owned by the Prime Minister and Alexander Vukic, or anything else. It is the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and should be managed in accordance with the laws, but you do not want such laws, not such a state, not such institutions, not such a system, because it suits you with anarchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35401	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. Can not get message: %s %s The MP Alexic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35402	We hear constant stories about how the economy will be relieved to increase the number of employees, how it will be reduced to impose on employers, but that will never happen. That is why we have proposed reducing the income tax in order to make at least one small, minimal step in this direction, but you do not want it, although your president announced it yet in 2017. In the year, it seems to me in March or May, until today it didn't happen. So that is why Serbia is today at the beginning and at the rate of average earnings, not to speak at the level of minimum earnings in the region and today, when you talk about some average salary in Serbia, which must have crossed those 400 euros, we listen to these announcements for three years, 400, 410, 420, unfortunately, my dear friends, two-thirds of Serbian citizens today do not receive anywhere near that amount of 400 euros. One third of Serbian citizens today receive minimum earnings and that is the state, it is a picture of Serbia. In doing so, the state does nothing to help them gain more money. I'd like you to tell me in order to manage, to live with the profits of 22,000, 23,000 or 25,000 dinars, how much our citizens in the Republic of Serbia have to live with today. For all of this, Serbia, and 25% of the population of Serbia, are at the border of absolute poverty. They're Serbian citizens. The government must not be alienated from the people. You need to hear little of these people. I know it's nice for you today when you sit in your chairs and enjoy everything in the jurisdiction of the government, you have functions, official cars, you have good salaries, but come on, see how the citizens of Serbia live today. You won't be able to lie to the media for much longer and the propaganda you're conducting. They'll figure it out very soon when they can't put it back together for a month. This will happen to Serbia and therefore this law is one of the important laws to warn the situation. We suggest you put this on the agenda, because your president suggested it, but unfortunately, he did, but he didn't have anyone to hear it, or whoever's pressing the bell, obviously didn't hear it, and that's why this law isn't on the agenda today, and that's why Serbia today is the country where me, or the difference between the rich and the poorest in Europe is the biggest. The ratio is nine to one. It's a picture of the situation in Serbia today. So we lost the middle class because of all the measures and the way you see Serbia's development. That's why it would be good for you to understand the sooner and the sooner you turn to some people who may know, and you don't want to ask them, to tell you how to run a state, not to bring citizens into a worse state every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35403	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. No proposal accepted. The MP Alexic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35404	I propose amendments to this law because it was adopted then, two years ago, when we warned you about the consequences of this law, you didn't want to hear it then, and today is exactly what we were warning you about two years ago. It is that it will endanger the economic position of public sector employees, that will be led and there will be a departure of professional staff, but you did not care about all of this, because you have achieved one single goal, which is that you have strengthened party employment and that people are employed in Serbia's public sector today only if they have a SNS party book, no longer these other coalition partners, because rarely where anyone succeeds and has the courage to even ask those from the ruling largest party, to hire one of their own. Today, unfortunately, in the public sector in Serbia, all over Serbia are employed bots. People who are tasked with politics rather than working in the interests of the society and the citizens who pay them. Today, these same employees and party bots go from city to city whenever there are extraordinary local elections and work in campaigns, drive official cars, collect safe votes, sugar, cut-outs, share flour, and who knows what else, and are fighting for the votes of the party that hired them, instead of doing their job with honor and honesty and doing the pay provided to them by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, as many of these employees as we have today, no one knows. We have been listening to announcements for years that we have many people in the public sector, but in six years you have not counted them, and we do not know how many there are, but we know that this law did not include representatives of the National Bank of Serbia who receive several thousand euros, even 5,000 euros, and we have representatives of BIA, representatives of public enterprises, and even public media services, which do not apply these laws, and I do not know why they would be excluded from all others who work in the public sector. So we propose this law, and I believe that it will lead to the care of who is being employed, that these people who are employed in the public sector are doing their job, so that Serbia will not happen again to be a suspected country for money laundering and financing international terrorism, only in Europe as such by an old International institution to prevent money laundering and combat terrorism, but that is why such failures happen, and then someone from the world or Europe needs to tell us what is actually going on in Serbia and what is happening. That is why one of the key things the People's Party will insist on will be the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35405	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on financial support for families with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35406	Thank you. Here, now several months ago, that is, when the Budget Law was adopted, we had before us the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, but because you want to unite the debate and that as little as possible talk about the life problems of Serbian citizens, it was one of the 31 points in that session of the Assembly, so that besides the budget, which was most important in that session, no one said a single word in the debate in principle, nor in the debate on the details of this law. That is why today, five months or four months later, you wake up and say that Serbia has problems with the white plague, so the President of the Republic comes to the citizens of Serbia at public service, so it tries and says that Serbia has a terrible problem, that in a few years or ten years we will have about four million inhabitants, between four and five, if this trend continues, that young people are leaving etc. But you rule for the seventh year, how did you wake up now? We've been saying this the same thing for years, but you've been thinking about it too late, the moment we face tens of thousands of working people leaving Serbia every year, when less and less families decide to start a family in Serbia and give birth to children. Then you say yes, here we will now give the first child 100,000 dinars once, for the second 10,000 a month, etc. It's like you're giving away your money. The President of the Republic comes out and says, "I give." The wolf gives. So, how does Wolf give it? Whose money does he give? Well, it gives money to the citizens of Serbia. It's not your money, it's the money of all of us. In doing so, the minister in charge of this area comes out and says: those who cannot have children will be obliged to work for those who have children. So it's a scandal. For such a statement, it flies from the government, but that's not a problem, the various ministers who have profiled through these six governments, which the elected ones, which have been reconstructed, in these six years have also been making much worse statements, have had affairs and have been unable to give answers to the key issues they have been asking them, and it is not surprising in Serbia what the situation in the matter of birth is, in terms of crime, or corruption. But you know one thing, in order to have the birth rate and the population increase in one country, you have to make an ambience, not offer money to the mothers to give birth to children. They're not birth machines, they're free citizens and you create an ambience for them, so you'll see how things change in Serbia. There is no example in the world that the economy of a country was developing without the increase in population. So I urge you to put this bill on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35407	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35408	So this law provides for the introduction of excise duty on artificially sweetened drinks, and above all for health reasons. Because, unfortunately, today in Serbia, we have a very large number of people suffering from diabetes, we have children who suffer from obesity, and according to statistics from year to year, this figure is getting worse and worse. Since your policy is based all these years on taking money from citizens of Serbia on different grounds, and putting money at your disposal, whether it's pensions you've reduced and taken away, whether it's salaries you've reduced, whether it's farmers, employees in the public sector, our businessmen, you take everyone slowly through an increase in accounts, excise. Unannounced only from day to day, citizens can see that their cost of living is increasing and increasing. Since the situation is so, at least let us listen to people who are concerned with the health and future of the nation, so that we can introduce excises on what is not healthy, on what is choice, on what is not necessarily. Someone will decide whether to have money to consume artificially sweetened drinks or not. That's why we're proposing this, and for this particular reason we're asking for excise duty and for this kind of drink because you've also introduced an excise on coffee, because you didn't want to lift the excise on diesel fuel all these years. So if you take a farmer's excise on diesel fuel and they pay the most expensive fuel in the region, if you've introduced a excise on coffee and on a variety of other things, VAT on baby equipment, so let's at least do one of these things and that what's electoral is not about the daily needs of people who live in Serbia, that we at least think a little about the future of the nation, the health situation, the obesity and people who today in Serbia are suffering from diabetes. I therefore call on you to put this bill on the agenda, because I believe it is in the general interest and there is no political ambition, but the sole interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35409	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35410	At the last session, we had the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act and that was the eighth change of that law since 2012, since you were in power, the fifth change of one law since Minister Vujovic, has already become Minister of Finance, so since 2014. So eight times you've changed one law. This speaks of the way the law is passed, the responsibility, the institutions, and what these laws produce. This will happen at this current session, where we will discuss the Traffic Safety Act again, and he was also at the tide two sessions ago and discussed it. So, you're making the laws just so that the sooner it goes, the sooner it gets into a big pile, the less it's said about it, you're making up some kind of amendment to the laws that you're proposing to spend time discussing. Then you shouldn't be surprised when you change the same law eight times in four years. And in this change, you did not now foresee in this law an obligation for an institution that collects taxes to provide once a year a notification to each taxpayer about the state of the liabilities, whether or not he owes, whether he paid more or less, etc. You simply don't want to introduce a system, but you want the citizens to continue to wander in the dark, and you'll probably change that law at some point, just like you're going to change the Traffic Safety Act now. So, the tax procedure only comes down to those who work in tax administrations meeting the quota, the task they get from the central how much the budget needs to be filled, to say that we have a surplus in the budget, but when our entrepreneurs meet the conditions and get the VAT refund solution, then it's not paid. They wait six months, six months, sometimes more than nine months for the state to give them back what is theirs, because you have their money, but when you have to pay the fine, when you have to make a tax solution, then you're very effective, then the blockade is going momentarily, whether there are conditions or not, the verdict is made immediately, and then the party in the process has to prove itself whether or not the inspection was right, so if it proves that the inspection was wrong, then it may sometimes compensate him for the damage. But it's important that you take the money first. That's why we can't talk about Serbia today that has a normal business environment, but we have a state that recalibrates its citizens and we have to fight it, because it's obvious that you as the current regime don't want to, but you want to continue this state in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35411	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the Law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35412	Thank you. Here, this law that we have been proposing since 15 September 2015, which is a law that has already been in force for the fourth year in a row, and you have called the Law on the Temporary Regulation on how to pay out pensions, so the interim law is in effect for four years, and here is now your favorite IMF, which you and your president and prime minister swear, said that this law should be abolished, or that pensions should return to the level that was before the reduction. They did you a favor because it will have to return to the citizens of Serbia. You took away the rights acquired by law, you broke the Constitution, you took away the pensioners what they earned themselves, no one gives them anything. They worked for years in companies to get it right. You just abolished it and then said, of course, to implement your propaganda, bravo, the pensioners saved the country. Great, if it wasn't for you, the state would have gone bankrupt. Only I ask you now, who's going to pay back the money you took from the pensioners? So when the IMF says that, then the prime minister shows up, the president shows up and they say -- and the IMF does what it wants, it doesn't mean that pensions are increasing, it's reducing. Imagine, please, saying 80% of Serbian pensioners will get less pensions than they had before the cut. Now imagine that replacement thesis. So to those who have not been reduced, there is nothing to return to them, and to those who have been reduced, you are far from that level that was before the reduction. So that shows all the propaganda you've been carrying out in Serbia all these years. That's why I'm proposing what the IMF and the IMF have suggested, because they've figured out what's going on, so they're asking for that law to be abolished. I'm telling you, you better listen to us from the People's Party and our Parliament club Social Democratic Party and the People's Party, so put this bill on the agenda. Don't make it look like you're just listening to the IMF. Listen to us from the opposition sometime. We from the People's Party will not object if you put this bill on the agenda because it is in agreement with what the IMF is asking you today, and that will require sooner or later pensioners. But I understand that this is not what the prime minister is interested in today, because she is aware that as well as the various ministers who have profiled and the prime ministers in the previous six years will leave one day, but it will bring back Serbian citizens, their children will be returned, the children of these pensioners who will sue for their rights acquired, and who no one could take away from them. That's why I urge you to put this law on the agenda and not violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35413	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. The MP Risticevic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on it, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35414	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, jumped their descendants into a pot, and now they're going to run away. So here's a full Wolf of Jeremiah. Otherwise, Vuk Jeremic is known as a wealthy oil man from the village of Ježevica, who does not receive salary but boasts about New York, spending 50,000 euros per night, paying 70,000 dollars for one flight, and there are no salaries, we wonder where. He says, Mr. Alexic, that the advances are no good. Then what were you offering to be Minister of Agriculture? Here, here. If not the Minister of Agriculture, then at least the chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Here, Mr. Martinovic is here. I even wanted to give him that place. I wanted to give him that place, but you know what they told me? I wanted to give him the post of Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, to have one more MP, the advances said, we will not be led by foreign ambassadors and MI6, by the state. There's MI6. These photos, him and Davenport. He'll say later that I'm making it up. He said – freedom of the media, while Vuk Jeremic's wife recently edited a diary. She quit on her own. Borko Stefanovic's wife is the editor of a whole programme. Who in the SNS even works on RTS? Who works for coalition partners, someone of yours, a relative? No, no one. There, that's media freedom. It says: agriculture, they singled out but only for Zivkovic and themselves alike, 130 to 188m euros for subsidies, we 309 and we're not good, and they're good. Let's move on, pensioner. He founded some Fund to help old people, the Fund for Human Resources, or something like that, in Trieste, he, father-in-law, took from Dinkic 55 million dinars, is that so, Mrs Turk, for the care of old faces. None of them were nursed, and 55 million dinars were taken. For that and cutting grass in January and February. And he's talking about pensioners. He directly stole old faces and now he's talking about pensioners and, of course, escaped. The story of corruption. The Wolf of Jeremic does nothing but boast in New York. How? Because during his reign with Boris Tadic, he sold the state to Serbia, and here I will put it under quotes, so that he will not be punished, by agreeing with US Embassy Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic on behalf of Boris Tadic, that if Boris Tadic was elected in 2008, and whom Vuk Jeremic, at the age of 25, became a counsellor for telecommunications, and for defence, then retired an officer, etc., if elected president...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35415	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35416	Let me get this straight. ... then he will accept Kosovo's independence, which happened on February 17th 2008, and that is why I ask that the polling committee be established and that we examine this high treason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-14-0.u35417	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 30, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the Serbia's Luttri affair related to Gjorge Vukadinovic. Do you want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former regional secretary for sport and youth, Marinik Tepic, and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2018. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. Four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The apostle Aleksandar Martinovic proposed to publish a joint principle and uniform search: on the draft law on special conditions for the realisation and projects of housing for members of the security forces; Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on port navigation on internal waters; Proposal for a law on the procedure for enrolment of passengers in road transport; Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of freight and road transport; Proposal for a law on safety in railway transport; Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the interoperability of the railway system; Proposal for a law on the central record of real owners; Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the possession of transport and the purchase of the law on traffic; Proposal for a law on the implementation of the law on the implementation of the law of the law of law on travel and the passage of the law on travel of travel of travel. Convention on International Civil Aviation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Control and Management of Ship Ballast Waters and Grounds of 2004; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on International Road Transport; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey in the field of urbanism; Proposal for a Law on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia; Proposal for a Decision on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the Financial Plan for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2018. Does Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we've come to terms with the proposals, I'd like to put the agenda proposal to the vote, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly established the Fifth Session agenda, the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. (The sittings were suspended at 6:10 p.m.)
