ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33876	I have a question to ask the Secretary of Defense, Alexander Vulin. Why did he not withdraw the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia? Why did he not submit a new text of the proposal to abolish the existence of the law in general? Also, why did he not withdraw the proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2018? Because it would primarily save a few billion dinars, which could be given to both the military and the police more money, to raise wages, to improve the standard of soldiers and police officers, and most importantly to what our country faces such temptations that every soldier can at some point be valuable to us, and here they are elected, I suppose, capable soldiers or those who are among the most capable, now that the country needs them, to be in the country. In such a way that the military and police are more capable in the event of an emergency, that there is no certainty between those who go to foreign missions and those who remain in the country, and that they are not going anywhere on the other hand, that this is all part of raising the general standard of the military and the police, that their salary growth is much faster than the salaries of others in the public sector, that their salaries are to the extent that they are competent not to worry about their existence and the existence of the family at the time when they need to respond to the call of the country and enter into its defence. I supported yesterday's possibility for professional soldiers to remain in service until 53 years, therefore, to obtain pension rights based on employment, given that they have a well-infected job experience. In any case, our army and the police in these fateful moments will be the most powerful protection of our country. The ministry should only commit itself to suspending participation in foreign missions, whether it is UN or EU missions, there is no fundamental difference. Imagine hundreds of our soldiers and officers to be found outside the country, while the Shiparis head for Kosovo, Croats and Muslims to Brcko or Croats on the left bank of the Danube in Bačka. So these are all concrete and very important reasons. For these reasons, we need the military and the police to be as satisfied as possible with their social position as possible, to have the prospect of getting apartments for a certain number of years of service, of course, during the working century, so that these apartments can at favourable prices buy out, become their owners. When the Army is satisfied, when it's not hungry, when it's well equipped, it's much more in the mood and ready for armed combat, than when a soldier thinks about whether there's anything to eat for him that day, how he's going to pay for his kindergarten, how he's going to buy textbooks and everything else. It's the same thing about cops. Police officers should be part of the armed forces during the war, so they must enjoy the same status as soldiers in order to fulfil their obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33877	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33878	Thank you. My first two questions to the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac. What did she do, did she do, and if she did, and if she did, and did not, for which reason, for my initiative addressed to her on 5 December 2017 in order to initiate a procedure before the Constitutional Court, i.e. to initiate a ban on the operation of the National Serb Front? This initiative was not an amateur, it was not in the form of a sentence or a simple question. It was very detailed, legally prepared, just as it should be, and Mrs Dolovac could practically just forward it to the Constitutional Court of Serbia. But I haven't been getting any answers to this question in months, so I repeat it or initiate it here. I also refer the second question to Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac. Namely, is it also intended to initiate the SRS ban before the Constitutional Court, and following the verdict of the international mechanism by which SRS President Vojislav Seselj was convicted as a war criminal to instigate the persecution of our citizens in 1992 in Hrtkovci. He as someone who represented and now his SRS, who does not hesitate to publicly express himself, to deny that verdict, to deny that crime, and that he is willing to, I hope not in this way, repeat, this is an absolutely established condition and a reason that the Republic Public Prosecutor before the Constitutional Court immediately initiates the ban on this political party, which in its operation today encourages the persecution of our fellow Serbian or different nationalities. On the third hand, since I'm trying this parliamentary path through the MPs' institution to communicate, at least this way, with Mrs Dolovac and I get some answers, it doesn't happen for five full months, at one point I asked when she was going to wake up from her winter sleep, but I really wonder if Mrs Dolovac is doing all right at all. I therefore refer the third question to the interior minister and to Mrs Nelli Kuburovic. So, I will not stop in spite of all the insults and threats that continue in continuity by Vojislav Seselj and which you pretend not to hear, but to honor you. So I ask Minister Stefanovic and Nele Kuburovic to answer my question whether Zagorka Dolovac is alive at all. Is that woman working, there's also what she's been doing in all these months at all, because I believe deep down that she's either moved or she's not with us anymore, even though I'd like it to prove that she's not true? A second set of questions, i.e. the fourth question, I refer to Minister of Environment Protection Goran Trivan, asking me whether the environmental inspection responsible for environmental protection was in Petrochem, whether it had been inspecting the facility or the FEB plant for the production of plastics for which I have knowledge, documented knowledge that it had been in the air for more than a year, so since February of last year, carcinogenic chromium is being broadcast. Employees immediately warned of this last February, Petrochemia management Pancevo was also immediately familiar with it, but Petrochemy's leadership did not want Pancevo to replace a porno furnace, on the grounds that it cost a lot, and to cover up the problem ahead of the takeover of Petrochemy by a future Russian owner or co-owner. So, I ask to be answered whether the inspection was there and whether it is even interested in poisoning the Pančevs and the Belgrade-based cancerous chromium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33879	The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I beg you, if I may include this time, please, I can't bring out what I wanted right now. The question I'm referring to... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: The MP throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33881	I ask the MPs to allow their colleague to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33882	I'm counting on 30 seconds for you to pay me back. I refer the question to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and what he is, and above all, the state authorities, what they have done to make known the right as he himself said to bring in Albanian terrorists, dressed as the uniforms of a terrorist so-called. Kosovo countries that kidnapped Mark Djuric at the end of March. We remember his press conference well and everything he said and in the way he described the terrorist government and the state, we sign and indeed do, but it is in front of the public of Serbia, so not only in the public of Serbia, not only to the citizens of Serbia, but above all, so on. Governments in Pristina, as well as representatives of the International Community sponsoring the so-called Independence promised to bring in the rights of all those who participated in the kidnapping of Mark Djuric. So, what's done? Has anything been done about it this whole time? I also refer the following question to the President of the Republic, as well as to Mr Mark Đuric, Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, which refers to the participation of Serbian List MPs in the Kosovo Assembly and the participation of ministers in front of the Serb list in the so-called "Serb List". The government of Kosovo. So we were all witnesses when the representatives of the Serbian List and their ministers, as well as Aleksandar Vucic and Marko Djuric themselves, said that the Serbian List will no longer be part of the ruling majority in the so-called. The government of Ramush Haradinaj and the ministers resign. Here, it's been a month since then, and we don't really have that real information whether they're really still supporting or not the government of terrorist Ramush Haradinaj. What we can see for ourselves and what I have as information is, in fact, that other than that verbal statement that they are no longer part of that ruling majority they are actually still working on and supporting that power. When it comes to the so-called. The ministers are more than obvious, so we have complete confirmation that they are not only going to their cabinets and to their jobs but simply having regular meetings with so-called. Other government ministers and regular meetings with Ramush Haradinaj. Mr. Chairman, I know that probably, unfortunately, one of the many are not interested in these topics when it comes to KIM, but please allow a little silence so I can say something. So, I'm going to name a few examples, and as you know, we're supposed to have three of our own ministers there, all three of them not only go to work, but first of all this minister who unfortunately got beat up by terrorists, we've almost had a chance to see in the media that he's a society of American ambassadors representing the embassy so-called. In Kosovo, Delavia, visited the Decana municipality, where, by the way, there are no Serbs anymore and in the capacity of ministers, shared aid to farmers. So I shared Ramush's neighbors' aid for agricultural production. On the other hand, we have had the opportunity to see through the media the assistant minister of the interior so-called. Kosovo, Radojevic, who is also not only a representative of the Serb community, but was also proposed by the Serbian list, almost informed the public of both the KIM and the wider that the re-registration of Serbian tables is under way in the so-called. Kosovo plates, etc. They absolutely carry out their ministerial and other duties in the so-called The government of Ramush Haradinaj. We really want to know if they're part of that government or not, but what we see in the field, obviously they are. On the other hand, when it comes to Members of the so-called Parliament. To Kosovo's assembly, they also said they would no longer support the majority to represent the opposition, but at the same time not only do they receive profits there it is less important, but above all, if they are not part of the majority, they are expected to launch an initiative to re-examine the government's trust so far. The answer I want to hear from Alexander Vukic and Mark Đuric is simple and simple, how long will we cross the Serbian list to deceive the Serbian public first of all in the KIM space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33883	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33884	I thank the chairman. In light of these legislative proposals we are discussing these days, I will ask Prime Minister Ani Brnabic and the building ministers to Mrs Zorani Mihajlovic, concerning the promise that at the end of 2017, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, who gave this question, will start building cheap apartments for members of the military, police and BIA in March of this year. The promise was made by the president of the Republic in the wake of a pre-election campaign ahead of the Belgrade elections. After that, the building minister confirmed it, and said in February that the construction of cheap apartments for members of the military, police and the BIA is already taking place at the end of March. That the price will be 500 euros per square, that these cheap apartments will be built in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Vranja and Kralje. Here, today at the end of April of the month, not that the works have not yet started, but that "lex specialis" from which they announced, which is a necessary and prerequisite to start the construction. This should not surprise the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as such promises have been made countless times over the last six years. We remember only the promises made by the president of the Republic of today, who was prime minister in 2014 when he announced the construction of cheap apartments at the price of 380 euros per square hour and that they would be built in 2015. We are here today in 2018 there are no apartments, no buildings, and no cheap apartments. We only have Belgrade on the water that represents a luxury building for those tycoons that are close to the regime and who probably have the money to give five, six, or ten thousand euros a square for one apartment. As for members of the military, police, BIA and other citizens and young married couples who were also at one point at a time at ease, and they were promised that they would have to wait or pray and they also came from somewhere to some aunt from Canada like Minister Vulin who would give them 200 thousand euros to buy themselves real estate. The question is how far has it come, and why else do you know which way you deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by giving them false hopes of some cheap apartments, some better conditions for life, and so on? I ask the second question to the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. The question is: when will the competent authorities within the MUP act on applications that the former employees of the First Five-year-olds filed against the current private firm and the manager who led the first five-year-old girl to bankruptcy, and then made a private firm with which they now draw everything that has been created and invested in "The First Five-year-old" for years? The application was also covered by the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, covering both bankruptcy managers and a private firm, as well as the bankruptcy judge who gave the private company a claim of 170 million dinars to the private company that was founded after the company was asked to go bankrupt. So it's a brutal robbery, brutal crime, and the police authorities have to act on the request of over 2,000 workers who have lost their jobs in this process. I ask him when it's going to be processed? I also applied for the establishment of a survey board, to determine all the facts with the departure of "The First Five-year-old" in bankruptcy and everything that happened afterwards. One big robbery is in the works, and I call on the minister to do everything in his power to have the authorities of the MUP examine who is responsible and who will be responsible for the robbery of tens of millions of euros from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33885	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33886	The Honorable chairman, respected fellow MPs, referred the first question to the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Marko Đuric, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the competent resolution minister, as regards the status of employees in a separate company from Telecom, which began operating on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija a year ago, and whose employees from 1 May of this year threatened to remain completely without any existence and jobs. By the way, they've been in trouble with pension and health insurance so far. This is a good example of how the state of Serbia, unfortunately, gradually disowns statehood in Kosovo and Metohija, when it agreed to single out one enterprise from Telekom Srbija and that the company be registered in Kosovo and Methoi's territory under the laws of so-called. The independent state of Kosovo, which has brought a huge number of employees into trouble, so please respond to the current status of these employees and what is the state doing to protect them? The second question is directed towards the minister without portfolio, for demographics and population policy, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic herself, and it is, of course, the most painful and important topics for us, which is the darkness of solving the problem of white plague and family policy in the state of Serbia. I must say immediately that I am positively surprised and grateful both to both the prime minister and minister that we have been getting intensive answers to our questions regarding the problems of the white plague and family policy. For the first time in two years of our work as MPs, we received a response from the government to a proposal for a declaration by the Dvora. It's about a declaration of family protection, where we predicted a series of measures of family policy. Although the government rejected this proposal, yet in one response and constructive conversation it is evident that they are considering what we were thinking and proposing. That's one, I'd say, step forward between the government and the opposition here at the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is similar with Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who twice answered our very specific questions in the last month, from which we conclude that these discussions are well-intentioned, constructive and aimed only at improving the current policy of the Republic of Serbia's government in terms of birth. So we think there's something going on about demographics and population policy, but it's not enough about demographics and population policy. Let me also give you concrete proof. Since the government of the Republic of Serbia was unable to deal with the white plague within six years of the current SNS and SPS authorities, the president of the state himself, Aleksandar Vukic, had to engage in the problem even though it was not in the job description of his presidency. Does this mean that government personnel are unable to resolve this key state priority, so the president himself had to include himself, I don't know, or the president, simply, chose that everything that was good and positive be his work and his quality, and everything that was bad and negative in Serbia, to be the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministers, but if he did, then he wisely realized that he was holding on to what was good and leaving the government with what was bad at the moment in the state of Serbia. In that sense, I would ask Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic to provide me with names and contacts, as she says here in her response, most of the 169 local self-government in Serbia, where there is a person in charge of the issue of demographics and population policy? So I want to get the names of all these people in all local self-governments with contacts that are responsible for the issues of demographics and population policy, because we want to get involved and help them at the level of all local self-government where we have also proposed family protection declarations and very specific local measures to support families, young married couples, families with more children, single mothers and fathers and other endangered social cases and families in Serbia today in general. Don't forget, families are at risk today on various grounds. Are these loans indexed in Swiss francs, which is an unprecedented bank robbery, whether they're municipal police, parking services, whether they're private contractors that need to be abolished, because they're the most common robbers that take away people's property, and that there's no judicial verdicts in any case, etc. In that sense, I would like to point out in the end that we are arguing with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on whether a special family care ministry should be formed, which the Dvori consider necessary, so I would ask the prime minister to explain once again why this is not a good solution to having a single family care ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33887	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33888	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, first question, Mr. Arsic, I ask you. Is it possible that you didn't want to react to the most disgusting insults, lies and threats the members of the SRS had just said to a colleague while she was speaking? Three times we've gotten you out of here, we've been in the DS, begging and throwing you out to react. I've got the tape, too. (Vojislav Seselj: Let's see. () What if someone spoke to your daughter or someone close to you? How long do you think you're doing this stuff? The colleague is not from the DS parliamentary group, but the DS will always protect those to whom it is done, regardless of religious, political and national commitment. (Vojislav Seselj: Let's see the video. Let's see how you protect. ) Do you really think that the citizens of Serbia have not heard what happened and do you really think that every time the most disgusting lies offend us, that you pretend that you haven't heard, both you and the president of the Assembly and anyone who holds the presidency, that no one has the spine to say – enough? (Vojislav Seselj: Let's see the video. I'm asking Minister Voulina, who was here with us all day yesterday, and I hope he will be here today. The question is – what is the assistant minister responsible for, Mr Miloradovic? What exactly does he do? Is it true that he owns the company "Meena 500" and is it in conflict of interest to sell weapons and military equipment directly from our factories abroad? Assistant Minister, Mr. Miloradovic, abuse of office and who knows what else. Under what law, which tender is Mr. Miloradovic, who is also the assistant defence minister and owner of the "Me 500" company, sells weapons under "Yugoimport" to foreign countries? Is there anything that doesn't make sense to you, and what does it have to do with Secretary Vulin, who keeps a man like that close to him? I ask the third question to the police minister, Mr Stefanovic -- will he ban the shameful announced rally of the Serbian Radical Party in Hrtkovci? I am telling him - if he does not ban it, it will be done by the citizens and the Democratic Party, because it is our obligation. We want an answer. We're not going to make any gathering there, but we're going to organize ourselves to protect those who are now in the SNS and those who stayed in that party, in the SRS, already chased from their hearths. The next question I ask the prime minister: Is it true that the Serbian Progressive Party owed 11 billion euros in just six years' time for the country's government? The country's debt was 14.1 billion euros when the Democratic Party took over, we left 15.1 billion when we left. Yes, we owe the country one billion for six years of government. Now that debt is 26 billion. You owe the country 11 billion for these six years of your government. If it's from you, it's a lot. Finally, once again we ask you to deliver the footage from the cameras at any time, there are 10 cameras here, where our colleague Jerkov has been harassed, surrounded and written the ugliest things on her papers, rules of procedure and documents. We demand that we be delivered footage from security cameras and from the cameras that are being recorded here. You can't go deaf on that, and we won't give it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33889	Mr. Milojic, do you want me to answer your questions in writing? (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. In writing, you will receive an answer. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33890	I thank the chairman. I want the first notification from Minister Branko Ruzic and Minister Dusan Vujovic, as well as from Prime Minister Mrs Ana Brnabic. Namely, the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina has not yet been passed, although all deadlines agreed with the EU have been greatly broken. Since 2006, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, the dukes have been waiting for the adoption of this law. And every government since that year 2006, to this day, the Vojvodina has assured us that it is a matter of priority. It's not that there weren't a few suggestions in the procedure, but nothing has been done so far on the realisation itself. And at last year's joint session of the government of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it was again agreed that this is a priority issue. At all mouths, the last few governments boast of decentralisation or a tendency to do the same, and of all things in the end we only have an empty story. If there is no clear and certain direction of money, what kind of decentralisation are we even talking about? In this regard, I conclude that the AP Vojvodina budgets have been practically illegal for 12 years and contrary to the Constitution. Can we expect a bill on the financing of the AP Vojvodina during some reasonable period of time? Second notice I ask Mr. Minister Sarčević: Why does it take parents to buy new textbooks for first and fifth grade students, although the three-year period is still going on? I understand that some newspapers are being introduced, that they're working on digitization and stuff, but it seems to me that the only constant is when the textbooks are a constant blow to the parent's pocket. As far as I'm concerned, for some of the cases, as is the case with, say, biology, there's really been a change of program. However, for some cases, such as, say, history, there has been no change, but the textbook has to be bought as a new one. The teachers themselves talked about this, because it was they who were sent year after year to change the program. They're wondering why it takes this kind of blow to the parents' pocket? Among other things, they are also obliged to attend seminars and trainings, which eventually come down to their publishers promoting textbooks that their parents will eventually be obliged to buy. I will ask Minister Sarcevic and the representatives of the ministry to deliver an integrated document, but also to the public, for example, on the Ministry's site, what is particularly changing in the programmes, separated by subjects and areas, for first and fifth grade students, and why is a complete replacement of textbooks needed? The next notification I ask Mr. Minister Sarčević – what was done to open a new competition for scientific projects as soon as possible? The science community in Serbia is rightly concerned because after the cancellation of the 2016 competition, the new competition has not been called yet, and the institutional financing of the Institute has not yet been resolved? Minister Sarcevic promised a new competition sometime in June 2017, but nothing has been done since, except that the old projects have been extended for the fourth year in a row. On several occasions, competitions were promised, only to deal with some technical problems. The basic question that bothers all people in science is – why do they have to do the same thing for who knows which time to do the same thing when the database with scientific results already exists in the Ministry? Who's in charge of building this database and correcting and controlling it? Is there a goal of this re-entering and correcting already entered results? In addition, questions have already been raised about the availability of personal data from all researchers in the register, who have become available to unauthorized persons, which is contrary to the Personal Data Protection Act. What is obvious to everyone is that it is unlikely that a new competition will be launched by the end of the year, and I ask Minister Sarcevic when the competition is scheduled again, so that the scientific community should not have to work in constant uncertainty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33891	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33892	Thank you. Last year, more precisely on September 30th in Tutina, Fahrudin Mavric, a young man of 22, was killed by a uniform police officer. From the very beginning, there are intended complications for this case. All actions taken by the state authorities in connection with this murder have only one goal, which is to free this innocent young man's killer. Let's take it in a row. First, Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic made a shameful statement, in which he lied about this brutal murder, and I will also quote him: "The criminal shot at them, and their legal obligation is to draw weapons and defend his life. These people are specially trained even when they draw weapons, obviously there was a good reason." It's a finished quote. Not a single word in this statement is true. With this process, Minister Stefanovic actually took advantage of his position at the high state summit and directly told prosecutors and judges how to treat this case, saying so, so I will quote him that these officers defended their lives and acted in accordance with the law. Since he didn't answer the question I asked him last time, I'm asking him again to explain with what right he made such a statement before any investigation was conducted or before the indictment was filed? And today I repeat that because of such lies in normal countries, the Minister of Police is either being replaced or resigning himself. What happens next to Scarep's murder? The appeals prosecutor's office in Kragujevac completely untransparently withdraws the case from the jurisdictional senior prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar and assigns it to the unauthorized Senior Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. Such a decision by the appeals prosecutor's office in Kragujevac not only upset the public, but also increased the Bosnian's mistrust towards state authorities. With that in mind, I'm asking the president of this appeals prosecutor to explain all the reasons for this procedure. The Uzic prosecution has no longer filed charges against a police officer until today because, according to them, the investigation is still under way. However, despite the fact that the investigation is still ongoing, the killer has been at large these days, regardless of what might affect both the investigation and the witnesses. This attitude of state authorities towards Bosniaks, all together, is a worrying message and confirms that Serbia's state authorities continue to lead a policy of legalisation of crimes against Bosniaks, and this is not the first case. We have been warning for years that the behaviour of the police, courts and prosecutors in Sandzak is hostile to the Bosniaks, and today we see that more instance and higher organs are there to give this hostile behavior an even greater dimension. Does anyone, after kidnappings in Strpci and the North, think that Bosniaks in Serbia are clay pigeons so that they can shoot at them without any punishment and no responsibility, especially if they wear a badge and a uniform? How long will we in parliament ask the state authorities to do their job and solve a number of unsolved murders in Sandzak? You expect the Bosniaks to have confidence in such state bodies, in a state like this, in the police that kills our children, in soldiers who sing Chetnik songs at the official celebrations. Who and why do we pay taxes? To pay our taxes to cops like this, to pay salaries to soldiers who sing Chetnik songs, like these to prosecutors and judges. I expect to get answers and explanations on these issues within the legal deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33893	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first questions are about Radoslav Milojičić, called Heineken, and with this in connection, since he asked you a question, I reserve the right to ask you a question and to answer me, since they are so disgusting to violence, to curses, etc., to find the information and to tell us whether it is true that Radoslav Milojičić is called Heineken, in November of the month along with another DS member went to the premises of the National Assembly, asked for my smallness with the intention of beating me up? So I'm asking you to answer that question. So far, I didn't want to make this public, but since they insist on every detail, I ask you to answer me - is it true that in November 2016, Mr. Milojicic called heineken and his friend from the DS were looking for me in the SNS rooms with the intention of beating me up? That's the first question. The second question is also about Mr. Milojic called Heineken. I ask the Ministry of Police and the authorities of the prosecution to determine whether it is true that Mr. Heineken, along with former Defence Minister Mr. Sutanovac, has a hidden ownership of the building on Miljakovec. So, it's not a building on the pasture, it's a building on Miljakovec, which is funded, don't get baptized and the devil can be crossed for his needs, and that money was collected by selling Dom JNA in Smederjevska Palanca with the permission of Sutanovac, by buying Milojic and presales to Miroslav Miskovic "Delta" and on that occasion only the difference in price without a commission suspected by 16 million dinars. So, is there such a kind of cloaked property that the Ministry of Police clearly responds to me? The next question is about Miroslav Aleksic, MP of the descendent and of Jeremic. So, I ask that the Ministry of Police respond to me and the Ministry of Defence -- in 2003, did Vuk Jeremic, as a soldier for serving the military term in the presidency, and with whose permission, with NATO General in the United States, call it, the event he called, organised by the Western Police Synta? So, did NATO address the generals, with whose permission, and is it true, I claimed yesterday, that as a soldier in such a way he was reporting to NATO generals during his 2003 stay in the United States? The next question is about Miroslav Aleksic – is it true, since he has raised the issue of construction here, that the wild construction built a gas pipeline in Trstenik while he was president of the municipality of Trstenik and that the company called "Bos" was awarded the right to supply gas? The last question to the Ministry of Police – are the meetings in Nis legally and legitimately in accordance with the law reported to the MUP 72 hours earlier, since they are obviously not spontaneous, because at these gatherings those who have made Nis a valley of famine – Borislav Stefanović, Jankovic, Jeremic, Zivkovic, etc., those who have destroyed Nis? Since they appeared there, we who opened together with Aleksandra Vukic's six factories, and they closed far more, we're worried. If they came to power, we couldn't open up as many factories as they could. With this in mind, the question is clear – are these gatherings reported in accordance with the law and what will the MUP do against these persons I mentioned, who are the real organizers of this meeting?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33895	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33896	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago I asked a parliamentary question about numerous affairs in the Paracino municipality. In particular, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and the question was – is the deputy president of the municipality in conflict of interest? These experts from the Paracino municipality have tried very clumsyly to deny and in some ways deny my allegations, but they just got involved in it. Now, like that people's saying -- it's not the mother of a son that went to gamble, but that he went to get out, they're trying to get out of that situation, but they're actually getting deeper and deeper buried in their lies. Namely, only when information about the conflict of interest has been released has Saletic submitted a request to delete it from the APR. However, the request was primarily rejected. He said he had resigned earlier as director of the private company, but as if the APR data had not been updated. It is, of course, a lie, because the APR data are regularly updated, and every change request in the register is updated within five days of submission, and it is immediately visible on the site, in electronic form everyone can see it. Otherwise, for information, for citizens' sake, this Shaletic is only this morning, but literally this morning, just nine hours ago, on April 26th, wiped out of the APR. There is a solution ahead of me – registration application is adopted, Tomislav Saletic is deleted with this and that parent number, and it is named, i.e. Ljubica Spasic is entered. Well, it wasn't until this morning. So much for that. It is now clear that we are dealing with liars, people who are ready to harshly deceive the public, to lie to citizens of Serbia for their own personal use. It's a feature of the people who lead, unfortunately, the Paracino municipality. It is a feature of Sasa Paunovic's regime, which citizens there already call the Paracyan despot and did not accidentally get such a nickname. Meanwhile, we have come to the realization that the company of this deputy head of the Paracin municipality, therefore, of Sasa Paunovic's first associate, has received almost all important jobs in this municipality. So, the tenders that "Spectar Invest" is the company, it was only in 2017 - the adaptation of the pharmacy - 15 million 644 thousand dinars, the construction of the drain canal - eight million 886 thousand, so almost nine million dinars, the construction of the pump station - two million 634 thousand, the construction of the sidewalk - 30 million dinars, though not alone here, there was a group of performers, works on public surfaces - 300 thousand dinars. So, a total of 57 million 465 thousand dinars in 2017 alone, and that is why I refer my question to the Ministry with the desire to investigate whether there was abuse of office, whether there was abuse of function, whether there was an impact trade, because it is simply impossible for this company, in which the vice president of the municipality is the director, to always get all the most capital jobs in the municipality. It's just impossible. Once again, it has been shown that where DS exercise power is always about combinations, it is always about abuse of position, conflict of interest, thieving in one word, whether it is Kena in Smederjevska Palanca or Paunovic in Paracino. This Panunovic has been in power for 20 years in Paracino, and the only thing he is known for is that he has not done anything under God's grace for the municipality. He's been writing letters these days. He regrets the SNS of all living institutions, the most diverse institutions. And Brussels, and Strasbourg, and the Council of Europe, only UEFA hasn't complained about the SNS yet. I want to tell him, fortunately, that neither the Council of Europe nor Brussels nor Strasbourg will decide, but only the citizens of Paracinos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33897	Thank you. Since no more of the presidents, or authorised presidents of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, report to the floor, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following peoples: Marija Obradović, Aleksandra Tomic, Dubravka Filipovski, Elvira Kovac, Zarko Obradović, Aleksandar Stevanović, Aleksandar Seselj, Dejan Radenkovic and Muamer Bačevac. We continue the joint principled single search on the proposals for acts from 1 to 13th of the agenda. We're continuing on the list of persons registered for discussion. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33898	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have a set of draft laws in the field of defence and the Serbian Army, which will regulate issues of exceptional importance for the defence and the Serbian Army, as well as for members of the defence ministry. The SNS parliamentary group and in these areas supports the government's policy and qualities set by the defence ministry, and only some of them are the improvement of the operational and functional Serbian armies, the improvement of military standards, as well as the maintenance and procurement of military equipment. Only after 2012 can it be said that the defences and the military are given the look and importance that belongs to them. If we take last year, in 2017 it was very successful for the Ministry of Defence and I would first of all like to highlight the project of building apartments for the needs of members of the Ministry of Defence. Also, the plans and strategies of National Security and Defence and the long-term development of the defence system have been completed. In 2017 alone, more than 1,000 professional soldiers were admitted to Serbia's Army. Training was conducted with over 2,000 persons from the reserve composition of the units and commands of the Serbian Army. Military neutrality policy is also a policy supported by the SNS parliamentary group. This is primarily important because of our citizens whose wars are not needed, but rather peace policy, stability policy, so military neutrality policy. But on the other hand, we provide support and development and modernisation and strengthening our military and security capabilities because we want our fellow citizens to be protected at all times. You will agree, Minister Vulin, that we must not forget the period until 2012 and the disastrously bad situation in this vault, which was then in the hands of Dragan Sutanovac, who purposely wanted to work exclusively on the destruction of all military capacities. We only remember how many tanks were destroyed then, but you were already talking about it yesterday, so I wouldn't repeat myself, and then it could have been about developing both modernization and defence and the Serbian Army as it is today. I have to say, in that very period, on 22 October 2010, it was also a problem for the city of Nis. Today, protests in the city are among the loudest of those who have created this problem and have led to this problem. That's when the damage contract was concluded by the Ministry of Defense and under the city of Nis. When the city of Nis made commitments and in return for the transfer of the rights of use of the airport and the barracks "Buban heroes". These commitments have not been carried out to date, these commitments have not been made in that period, and I certainly do not think they will be able to be carried out in the next period because they have been estimated at more than 65m euros that the city of Nis is not presently having. He didn't have it then either. Among other things, apartments were to be built for the needs of members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, and I would remind that only 32 apartments were allocated. The Nis leadership has now adopted the government's recommendation to return to the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it was immediately used by failed politicians who remained only plastic whistles and walk the streets of the city. Those people who don't think of Nis, those people who don't like Nis, those people who want us to take advantage of media attention and a little bit of a minute in the media so that the bitter taste of defeat in all the elections can make it a little easier because their results in the elections start mostly by zero and a decimal. On the other hand, the city has no money to modernise the airport, and the government of the Republic of Serbia will continue to invest. The airport will continue to develop. In the last three years alone, the government has invested as much as eightm euros in the city of Nis. So 3.6m euros have been invested in the city of Nis in the last three years by the government of the Republic of Serbia. They can protest in Nis only to invite those people who do not love Nis and only people who do not want Nis to become the centre of the Balkans, and now has the greatest chance. As far as passengers are concerned, I must say, passengers will travel under the same conditions as in the price until 2021 because contracts with companies have been concluded on that period. Finally, I will take the opportunity to congratulate you Serbian Army ministers and members of the army on the Day of the Serbian Army, which was on April 23rd, and to invite colleagues and colleagues to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33899	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to present the acts and agendas of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, from the Army of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have 13 important laws that speak of what BIA, the Army of Serbia, the police and many other things will look like to us. We discuss this in a united debate that makes it impossible for us in view of the time we have to be responsible for all that you have sent to the MPs, to the National Assembly, in a way that obliges us to talk about it responsibly. We have submitted a large number of amendments in the hope that we will have a chance to talk about them when we have the opportunity to talk about details. The hope is, of course, like any attempt by this parliament to be a parliament rather than a toy of SNS, Aleksandra Vukic. The MPs have also submitted to this time the unblessed hundreds of amendments that make it impossible for opposition MPs, not opposition MPs, but citizens to hear what this is all about, so this time that stands in my debate in principle will only speak in a few accentes of what I consider most important at this point, which is the BIA Act. When we talk about this law, it is very important as responsible people and ministers that I expect you and not only me, but also the citizens of Serbia and the public to answer a few important questions. The law was sent to the Serbian parliament on 31 August 2017 with an amazing explanation, which all MPs received here and for the sake of the public's interest, I must read this argument. Therefore, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, as it would otherwise be questioned if the BIA were to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, and this could have adverse consequences for the security of citizens and the achievement and protection of their freedoms and rights. This is absolutely disturbing, not every MP, but a citizen and a citizen of Serbia. This kind of thing when you send such an explanation in August 2017 that it is necessary to amend the members of the provision of certain members of the BIA Act and that, afterwards, we are now in April 2018, still under emergency procedure. I ask you to state how the Republic of Serbia has been threatened, in which way the security of citizens and citizens has been preserved, and constitutional order, which, among other things, is the work of this agency, or is it possible that this is also one of the things that the government is not telling the truth to the citizens of Serbia and the MPs? If the only reason to change the emergency procedure because of the threat and the need to preserve the security of citizens and constitutional order is the fact that the essence of this law is related and is actually only one thing, which is that BIA Director Mr. Gasic, I am sorry that he is not here and that he dares not answer these questions, he gets powers beyond all those powers that we have in parallel practice, all these powers that the previous directors had. Therefore, security has been threatened, by an urgent procedure, the BIA Act is being referred to because it is said to citizens – unless the MPs adopt this change, the BIA will not be able to adequately comply with the law to do what its job is, and the job is, among other things, to protect the security of the citizens, to protect the constitutionally established order. So, the constitutional order and the security and rights and freedoms of citizens depend exclusively on increasing the powers of the BIA director, to whom in several members, which are the subject of these changes that we are talking about, are solely increasing the competence and authority of the Agency's director, from not having to call the competition, from him who will determine the pay coefficients, from being Bratislav Gasic, the director of BIA, especially him, but also any, he will decide whether anyone has the necessary qualifications, he will decide how people will professionally perfect themselves, he will decide how people will eventually advance in the BIA structure. A man, any man, you know, when you increase powers in any area, without increasing control space, in any area, and especially in the BIA, where it is necessary to have civilian control of such a service, it is the Agency which, I remind you, has not responded and has not protected the citizen of this country, as you say, the leader of the opposition Oliver Ivanovic, who went to the BIA premises 10 days before his death and informed his own state of serious threats which, unfortunately, turned out to be true. So it is necessary to change the law by increasing the authority of the Agency's director, who will be able to employ, determine the coefficients, reward etc. And because of that, if you don't do it, the BIA won't be able to adequately protect the order. It is something that absolutely requires your answers and I expect from you, too, Mr. Vulin, if you are able, and Mr. Gasic, whose current absence won't upset him from it. The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. Mr. Arsic, I hope you may hear a throw at this occasion that certainly won't deconcentrate me, but it will remain in the stenogram, as one of the things you allegedly haven't heard. (President: Fellow Members, it wasn't a waste of your time, it was a mistake not to make a mistake, because only this National Assembly can be addressed by a minister, can't be the director of any agency. This is a funny try. (President: It's not a funny try. It is, unfortunately, just a funny try. He's not funny at all. ) Can you let me continue? (President: Continue. ) Just a few other things, therefore, all the power that these amendments put into the hands of the Director of BIA, all that additional power on the other hand has no effect on the additional control of this process, which is put into the hands of one man, the Agency that protects the security of Serbian citizens and the constitutional order is given into the hands of a man who is the only person in that position, in the words of the President of Serbia, and I ask you not to interrupt me in that sense, because Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said – of course Bratislav Gasic will be the director of BIA because he has waited patiently for a year and a half without any function. So BIA's CEO has been running for patience, because a man has survived for a year and a half without a post on one side, and on the other hand he tells MPs and citizens... (President: colleagues, come back to the topic. The agenda is not a selection of the Director of the Agency. Please don't interrupt me. I'm talking about amending the law. If you are unable to monitor the flow of thought, please concentrate. (President: I ask you to return to the topic. I'm a great follower, I'm just saying that the agenda is not the choice of BIA director. Are you done? (President: Are you finished? No, I'm talking, and you're constantly interrupting me. (President: Continue, but at the agenda point. Where do you get the idea that I'm going to listen to what you're saying to me, when I have to keep going, what am I not supposed to talk about? I'm talking about amendments to the BIA Act. If you're not able to...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33901	Please find me in the BIA Act to write Bratislav Gasic anywhere. (Maya Vidinovic: Mr. Arsic, can you give me back my word? Ask for a word, no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33902	First of all, the only thing is that you can't interrupt me. I have nothing to ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33903	I give you the reminder of my colleague Vidinović. (Maya Vidinovic: You turned off my microphone again.) Can I keep talking? That's the fourth time you've turned off my microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33904	Sign up a letter to keep talking. Sign up, you're not in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33905	This is the seventh time, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that I am interrupted as I speak about the laws that are on the agenda, which I expect both your and your predecessors explain, as well as an explanation for which I have been warned by the draft law. So, the fact that you have now replaced yourself at the chair does not release you from the obligation to tell me why I received a warning because I said that the amendments to the BIA Act, which we are talking about today, which have been brought by an emergency procedure because both people's MPs and citizens of Serbia have been told – unless BIA's director gets the greatest powers, we will not be able, members of the BIA, in an adequate manner to protect the security of citizens and constitutional order. That's why I got a warning, and I'm asking you to respond to something like that, or to get an explanation. This is the essence and I expect in the next debate, leaving time for colleagues to get answers to a few questions. Also, the fact that there is no fact that you have neither translated this bill nor sent it to the European Commission for an opinion is something we will also have in the next debate, in the next debate we have the right to hear. I ask you for an answer, which is why I was interrupted four times during my discussion and explanation, which is why I was given a warning when I was talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33906	Take it easy. Have you completed your address, MP Vidinovic? Yes, thank you. I have to meet you during the session before I go in and I'll give you the answers to your questions why you're four times interrupted and why you've been warned. Just to get to know each other during the session, that's part of when it happened. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33907	Thank you. I am advocating Article 109, which says that the reminder is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the chairman's permission, who speaks before he has asked and received the word, which, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda, Col. Vidinovic spoke about the BIA all the time, if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation, throws it to him or something like that, which directly addresses another MP, if he uses swearing and offensive expressions. None of this colleague Vidinović has spoken, and Mr Arsic here demonstrates the force all morning, first by not hearing the shameful insults both of his colleagues Tepic and all of us here, but we will also be looking for a stenogram, and we have a recording. So I ask you to courteous your deputies when you're not here, and you often do what they do. You can't break this Rules of Procedure all the time. Or change it, and if you don't want to change it then respect it. However, since the director of the agency will have exclusive right to this decision, then we can expect everything. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33908	I've ruled out what's coming out of the Rules of Procedure's breach. Except you intend to insult my deputies, a little bit of me, and I don't see any injury to 109. I asked you to wait and see how that part of the session was going when the warning was said and I agree, we'll consider why it was given. We have until the session is closed to see if the warning stays or not. It's my promise, but I need to get to know what that part of the session looked like and what was really said and why the warning was made, because we have examples of when everyone was judging the play "The Dove" and no one was looking at it. Don't expect me to say the second someone's right and the other one's wrong. I'm not that guy, I don't belong to that body of thinking. Minister Vulin wants to answer the question. (Radoslav Milojic): You did not ask me if I wanted to plead. You said you wanted it to be an injury. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33909	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last day we spent so much in the atmosphere in which we discussed the laws. I see that this day has begun to discuss personal antagonisms, who likes who doesn't like them although these are not laws for Bratislava Gasic, Alexander Vulin and Alexander Vukic, these are laws relating to the defence system, the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Defence and the BIA. Just a little correction, not to the police, but not a bit. There's no police here, and it's been said to refer to the police and it's going to be the police. So I'd really like that energy I feel here, you know, it's perfectly legitimate that you hate Wolf, Gasic and me. It's okay. It's your human right, citizens are determined according to your human right to vote, but it's a shame to spend that energy on hate, instead of spending it on these laws that are really very important. Let's get going, so first we said there's no police in the proposals and let's get this straight. Secondly, here it is said of which danger, which this danger occurred, what happened, was an explanation. Let me read to you literally not as read, because it's convenient to read something. So, it is said -- it is proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure, as it would otherwise be questioned if the BIA were to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, and this could have adverse consequences for the security of citizens. It could, so it didn't happen, it could happen, and that's why the law is being passed, because something could happen, not if it did, it could happen. And let me get this straight. You know, it's the National Assembly's decision when some law comes on the agenda. The National Assembly decides what priorities are and that is its sovereign right and no one can interfere with that. I will tell you that we sent our laws in November, these military laws, now I have the honour to sit before you. The National Assembly decides not to transfer it to anyone else. It's such a right. Now, it is very incorrect in human beings and every other way to call here Bratislav Gasic that he is not here to answer you. He can't answer you. Only I, in the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly, can answer you as a pronoun or another minister. None of these people who sit here, no one you bring aside and not a member of the government, only a minister can answer. I wish Bratislav Gasic could answer you because I know you would remember that answer for a long time, but he can't, it's the law. He can't, and then let's not say that viewers who may not know and are not obliged to know the Rules of Procedure, say, "Here he cannot answer them, he has escaped." He can't, he can't, he can't, it's the law. When we change the Rules of Procedure, which is the Rules of Procedure that you have brought, when we change the Rules of Procedure that he can speak who he wants, then he will be able to answer whoever he wants, but until you do so, it is not correct. It's legitimate, it's politics, you fight for voters, not too successful, but it's your right and I don't mind, just, well, it's my right to tell the truth, it can't answer. The law forbids him to answer, only a proposer. Here, and let's explain the fact that there's a problem. Why is the BIA looking for this and why could it? Let me calm you down right now. It didn't happen, the security of this country was preserved and protected, and it's being preserved primarily because of the enormous sacrifice and enthusiasm of people who work in our agencies by BIA, VBA, VOA, of course, the Bureau of Security and all the authorities, because there's a lot of work going on. The BIA is because all BIA employees, because of their inability to work, because of the adoption of the Law on Police who does not correspond to the BIA and the introduction of the obligation to go to a public competition, which is unacceptable for BIA, as you can see and understandably, two years has not been accepted by a single BIA worker for two years. It means that every BIA employee does several jobs, works overtime, works several duties, what's not his job, works more, and then of course you have to say it could happen when people are overloaded, when one man does two three jobs. He can't do two or three jobs, he doesn't have to do two or three jobs, and you'll admit we all understand that, at least, that it's not possible in an open competition to receive BIA operatives. How does someone imagine it, and how does someone think it's gonna happen? So that's why it's wanted by an emergency procedure, so it might come, because you'll admit it doesn't make sense that the BIA is so burdened if we can unburden it. That's the real reason. I have to say, I really don't understand who's going to determine the coefficient, if not the BIA manager? Some kind of NGO group? Who will determine the coefficient, I'm very interested, since in every ministry, in every body of the state administration, the head of the administration or body manager proposes a coefficient, referred it to the government, the government accepted it or did not accept it? Who else is going to do that? That's what this law provides, of course the director of the agency will do. This isn't the Bratislav Gasic law. I am glad that many in this Assembly are convinced that Bratislav Gasic will forever be the director of BIA, that he will forever be such a government, it is nice of them and the people support us at this time, does not mean that it will always work, but you act as if it will be forever. Somewhere I'm glad, thank you for that, thank you for that trust in us and trust in myself, but this is not a law on any individual, this is the BIA Act, where in the first place the BIA employees are allowed to be easier, to receive new people and to be accepted in the only way they can be accepted. I have to say in the end, I don't understand why it repeats itself here at all times and in the first place the responsibility of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in the area of KIM? Is it possible that no one would think to say, let's say, it's evident that Pristina has a responsibility and that it's not trying to do anything, so you could say that our state authorities could do more or what do you think? No, here you only say the authorities of the Serbian state are doing nothing, they are to blame for everything. You don't hear that in Pristina either. In Pristina, they try to justify themselves, in this parliament they wouldn't have to justify themselves, they would say here, it's not your fault, it's certainly Serbs, all Serbs, only Serbs do it and no one else. It was also heard here that we were to blame for the bombing, how we were to blame for all the wars, what you no longer hear in the countries that bombed us and that participated in the wars. I can't understand that. Everyone has the right to seek their voters, but I cannot understand that in this high house someone comes out and repeats it continuously that Serbs have been guilty of everything, since the war in 1999, of breaking Yugoslavia, to the horror and tragic murder of Oliver Ivanovic. I really can't understand it, but let everyone do what they think they need to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33910	After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. You have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Nadi Kostic, elected from the Election List Enough – Sasa Radulovic. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Nadi Kostic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, we approach the swearing of the oath: “I swear that I will defend the duty of the people's envoy and of civil liberties and of the best knowledge and the ability to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ Thank you. Please sign your oath text. Allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on my personal behalf, on the election for the People's Parliament and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. Congratulations again. We're going back to work. The word is Maja Vidinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33911	Thank you, President. Just for accuracy. The first thing, I suppose, Mr. Minister, is that fellow members of the army are not only present to sit, but to consult with you, although they do not have the right to speak, unfortunately, such is the Rules of Procedure. That goes for Mr. Gasic, too. It is my fault that he was not present to consult with you, to help you respond to what I have stated. So, of course it's not about someone not knowing the Rules of Procedure, it's about him choosing not to attend today, not to face arguments, to consult you, who are the minister, whom we choose here, help you try to answer. So I repeat again, because of the stenogram, because of the truth and the public. I read something sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, he says: "The reasons for the passing of laws by emergency procedure. It is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure, since, otherwise, it means that unless it is adopted by an emergency procedure, the BIA could effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, and this could, and continues as you said, have adverse consequences for the security of citizens, etc. Therefore, unless these amendments are adopted by an urgent procedure, and these amendments can be defined in one sentence as giving exclusive and higher powers to the BIA director, whatever his name is, in particular the one which is unfortunately the current director, whatever his name is, therefore, by an urgent procedure, members of this law, who only refer exclusively to the need to be given greater authority to the Director. If powers are not granted to the Director, and I say because of the public's interest that these powers apply, for example. where the Director adopts an act on internal arrangements and systematisation, that the Director decides on the establishment of a working relationship without competition, that the Director shall establish a form specifying the contents of the questionnaires, etc., that the Director shall determine the procedure of professional training. Unless adopted, security will be compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33912	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. You asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33913	The President-in-Office, the clean order, must be stressed whether something will be an emergency procedure here in parliament or not, the assembly decides not to. The government can make a proposal, and we must be the ones doing the government's work and, among other things, controlling the work of our services, since we have a responsible Security Control Committee. Therefore, it is up to us to assess whether something is needed to do the urgent procedure or not. I'm sorry that an esteemed colleague, who I truly truly respect, has not been a little bit more focused on the law itself, but has been more on the principle of propaganda that applies otherwise to the BIA Act and is constantly going through the media, by the way, about these competitions. So why didn't you bring them when you were in power? Why didn't you have a bid to join the BIA? You've never called a single contest, but what it looks like in your logic, and you Mr. Panic's been in BIA for years, so you know that, as our colleagues have imagined, it would be like this -- if in the paper, say, a contest was published, the BIA announced a competition that it needed operatives for example. Monitoring the work of diplomats in the Republic of Serbia and now describe the profile that we would need and so get out in the paper. About that is what our colleagues on the other hand are asking us to have such work BIA, which is, of course, completely abnormal and completely pointless. I would really ask that you no longer present such things because you laugh at the whole auditorium, it's never done anything. I would also ask you only in the end not to say that one's amendments are pointless because you have submitted 1,600 amendments, the majority of the amendments are "expect", change of score, dots or whatever, clean order is doing, to report and to try to obstruct the work of parliament. Of course, you're right about that. Parliamentary obstruction is something that is entirely legitimate by the opposition. But let's not say that someone's amendments are pointless, because when you look at the contents of your amendments, only then could you really talk about nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33914	Thank you. Minister Vulin wants to respond to your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33915	So, I am glad that we agreed that this is clearly stated “and this could have harmful consequences. ” The adverse consequences were avoided thanks to the work of these people and the work of our entire security community and because the BIA worker is doing two or three jobs. Of course it could happen if we keep acting like this in the long run. What? We're not gonna get into BIA anymore for the next three years, four years, five years, and we think it's gonna work, everything's gonna be fine, don't take anyone into the police, the military, the BIA, by any chance, and everything's gonna work. It won't work. The question is, how long can these people last? This is how it was done, as you are criticising now from 2008 to 2012, during the BIA Director of the DS, but the norm was referring to the Police Act, and now, since the Law on the Police does not meet the needs of the BIA, it is passed in organic law, therefore, in the BIA Act. So, and so far, the exact same way has been done, so it was, just that the norm was referring, and now there's going to be a norm in the law itself. So far, to repeat, because of our viewers, it's been determined by a norm that says it's been determined in accordance with the Police Act, and now it's said - without mentioning the Police Act, because the Police Act, we don't adapt it to the BIA, but BIA itself is doing it for itself. There's a norm in the law here now. The same authority was given to the official of DS Mr Vukadinovic, who headed the BIA from 2008 to 2012. Same thing, except he was an DS official, and then it's okay, then it's allowed, it can. I'll tell you right now, the first thing he did, after he stopped being BIA's director, became so much about his extravagant and I don't know what kind of belonging Bojan Pitiæ was to security, look, look at the DS. It's all irrelevant. It is important for our viewers, it is important for Serbian citizens to know – these same powers were applied from 2008 to 2012, only by a different legal technique, nothing more, nothing else changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33916	The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33917	I thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Minister, you've probably noticed in the debate so far that we haven't heard almost one fundamental, significant, real criticism of all the proposed laws. That says a lot about the quality of these bill proposals, although we have listened to, truths for all sorts of nonsense, nonsense, attempts at criticism, of course, without any single argument. Now the key question is, who are the charges and the criticisms coming from? They come mainly from what we once said, planned and deliberate and very systematicly, for years, destroyed Serbia's Army, and nearly destroyed, from 2000 to 2012 destroyed and demoted Serbia's Army. For years while they were performing, unfortunately, they treated the Serbian Army as if it were something we absolutely did not need, which we do not need, something that is excess. It's like something that we have to have, but essentially insignificant and unnecessary. That was their relationship to the entire security sector, especially the Serbian Army. As we've heard, more than 500 tanks and hoodies have melted, there's no way to count the exact number of weapons sold out, PVO systems, arrows, personal weapons. Everything they could destroy and sell out, and that's why, they did. So, only since 2012, has it started working on the state of repair in the military and I can't understand, so the thesis that comes, the thesis that are present that we don't need the military. Of course it's necessary. We need a strong army, we need a serious army, we need an army that will be respected, precisely for the sake of peace, precisely because of the peace we seek, precisely for the sake of stability. Well, both Switzerland and Sweden as neutral countries have a strong and trained army. We need a well-trained, well-equipped army, and I, ministers, cannot but welcome the intensities of these bill on improving the material position of members of the Serbian Army, improving technological equipment and overall development of the Serbian Army. When we look at all these questions from the corner of tradition and history, then things get even more weight. So I don't have to stress how many times in history we've had the opportunity to be proud of the Serb army, the Serbian officer and the Serb soldier. This year 2018 is the year when we mark the end of the Great War, the first World War, in which the Serbian army acquired, I would say, world glory. We have shown many times in history that we know how to defend and defend the country and that we are proud of this very Serb soldier and Serb officer. From the above, I would like to stress that I strongly support all the draft laws on the agenda and that I will vote for them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33918	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33919	Thank you, President. Dear ministers and guests from the Ministry and BIA, let's really look at BIA law. Indeed, the least of the problems in this, and Minister Vulin seems to attach the most importance to it, I am Mr Vulin, according to the education of the basic linguist, well, let's go a little while when you've already entered the linguist loops, let's see what it really says in this bill that the government sent us on August 30, 2017, before I think, eight months, and already at that point, the BIA Law was a year and a half late with adoption. So, it's said, I'm reading the whole sentence, so there's no substitute, if you often give us lectures here like we're in a school, we can say it in Serbian lessons, part by part analyze and determine word service in a sentence, and see what it actually means. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia in the draft law signed by Ana Branabic, on the eighth side of the Bill on BIA, states the following – it is proposed that this law be adopted by an emergency procedure, since otherwise it would be called into question the possibility of BIA, to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, and this could have adverse consequences for the security of citizens and the achievement and protection of their freedoms and rights. I'll give you the right, Mr. Vulin, that the second part of the sentence is really in the potential. You may know that the potential is a complex and personal verb form that expresss desire, possibility, or intention, that something happens, so we can assume that this second part of the sentence was in potential. Unfortunately, the first part of the sentence is the claim, the sentences in which the claim is made, Mr. Vulin is called declaration sentences, and here it is now said - this law is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure, as otherwise it would be questioned if the BIA were able to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia. In other words, this sentence can be read in this way -- it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure, as otherwise it will be questioned by the BIA's ability to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia. We, Mr. Vulin, don't know if you noticed, have not passed this law by emergency procedure, as suggested by Ana Branabic, but we are adopting it eight months later. A question for you, since we have acted contrary to your proposal, is it, meanwhile, a possibility for the BIA to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia? If it isn't, why did you claim it would happen if we didn't pass this law by an emergency procedure? You didn't put it here that it would be an option, in the first part of this sentence, you told us that if we didn't adopt this law, this proposal by emergency procedure that the possibility of the BIA would effectively protect the constitutional order and the security of the Republic of Serbia would be questioned. Mr. Vulin, did we question the possibility that the BIA could effectively protect the constitutional arrangement or not give God the security of the Republic of Serbia? Please tell us if we did this, so that we can talk to each other why we didn't listen to you, why didn't we do this in an emergency procedure, or if we didn't just say that this would be another law that goes through the congregation procedure, or if this is one of those laws that already have a saying "emergency," what would it really mean, how would I say, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has deceived the National Assembly? What has already been said several times, I see that colleagues refuse to talk about it and discuss it, a few of the old ones in this law are really interesting. In fact, Article 1 which states that, of course, it is the Minister who brings the current organisation and systematization of the Agency's jobs that is very detailed in point 2 of this Article on internal organisation and the systematisation of workplaces implies, but there is, of course, nothing and that he has to settle these issues in such a way that individual responsibilities in the performance of the business can be determined. This is not the first law that comes to us to have such an intention, that we have such a provision, that no one is actually responsible for those things that go wrong, but in the article, or in the position of the 3rd member, it is said that some think contrary to the Law on the availability of information of public importance that all the data in this act is classified data, and that you have in advance found that in all these documents are secret. The documents, Mr. Vulin, cannot be predestined and fully marked as secrets. Our law is very clear in this regard. I understand the fascination of those who run the state by force and police, especially the secret police, but believe that even in the work of secret services, intelligence services, there are laws of the Republic of Serbia that must be applied. Of course, you don't think that BIA is subject to laws, you think it can be stronger than courts. That's what you see in that famous 20-v article. Some of my colleagues have already talked about it. Namely, the director of BIA has the exclusive right to, even if the court returns someone to work, decide not to take that person to work, and everything under the cover of some security checks that we can see they don't even know how they're going. Mr. Vulin, judicial decisions can be challenged. They may be disputed, but with extraordinary legal remedies in court proceedings, not by an individual decision of a director, of a body or administrative operational actions of a state authority. You're the director of BIA here, you don't like to mention his name, put over the courts in this country. Another interesting thing about the BIA director, apart from the incredible powers that this law gets, is that although these amendments to the laws deal with human resources in the BIA, we do not see here a single condition and criterion that the person to be elected as BIA director should meet. Unlike this, when we talk about the VBA, it is prescribed there that the directors of these institutions and their deputies can be exclusively persons who have completed the general staff training, who have at least nine years of working experience on intelligence and security affairs in defence systems. Couldn't we have prescribed a condition for the BIA, that is, even if it had to have some experience at the job? Obviously, since indeed colleague Vidinović said, so Mr. Arsic was angry, our director, BIA, did not recommend only that for a year and a half, after prodigals which he said to a journalist, he had endured without a post. If we put any conditions for the director or his deputies, Mr. Gasic could not be BIA's director in his sleep, even if he waited for a year and a half or 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33920	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33921	I'm glad we at least made it clear that it could, so it didn't happen, and it didn't happen because BIA workers worked and still do more jobs than they should. They take on more responsibility, have more overtime. So if we had continued with this practice, it might have happened. I don't think we should do that, to think about whether or not something could, but to do everything in human power that doesn't happen. Although our BIA employees are signaling that something is a problem, the problem needs to be solved. We're handling it right here in this session, which is why, of course, I'm glad. Just some of the more important questions you've asked, let me tell you right now, on the matter of BIA employees' responsibilities, if you'd be kind enough to look at Article 22. The BIA Act, you will see that this member does not change, and it regulates the responsibility of BIA workers and in what way. So, I don't know why he would if we didn't change anything? How do you think we explain and explain in a different way? Also, what conditions must be met by a special unit manager, which is BIA, of course, has been regulated by the State Administration Act, and it is not a practice for solutions under one law to be copied in another, but is sufficient to exist in one law. You know, this would make it look like we now have to do a copy of the BIA Act, one codification of our legislation that applies to this, so you would have one law of 300 members. That's why there are other laws that are in force. Lawyers serve to connect them, and that's how it works. I understand the fascination of Mr. Bratislava Gasic, I understand the fascination of his character and work. I believe that it impotes you and that you are truly sorry that you couldn't appeal to such a official at the time of your government, but it still doesn't justify this much anger at the BIA Act, a law that only regulates the practice that existed in the time of the government of the Dossos regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33922	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33923	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107, was injured. Rules of Procedure. Since a very inappropriate and rude lecture in the linguistics field has been given here by someone who claims to be a linguist, if he's already held that kind of lecture here today, maybe from that point of view, he could also reanalyze yesterday's swearing message to me, and see if it's a threatening, promising message, with potential, without it, in which part, because it was at least one fully appropriate violation of Rule 107. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33924	I do not believe that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, MP, because neither in the provision of Article 1, nor in the provision of Article 2, it is not said that the President has committed an infringement of Article 107, and the MP himself cannot do so. Alexandra Jerkov, replica minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33925	You're right, Mr. Vulin, such a functionist as Bratislav Gasic, we didn't have a wave and I hope we never will. In that, among other things, there is a difference. It doesn't have much of a democratic country, organized societies, etc., but apparently there are countries run by your coalition. It would all be good if you could explain to us, if everything was like that, if all that was done and everything was the same at the time of the evil DS, and then why are we changing the law? Then why is it getting into the law changes if it's already worked that way? Secondly, I understand that you came to power to fix all the bad things the DS was doing when it turns out that you're still doing worse. You enter into the law what you claim wasn't in the law before, and the DS, in your own words, worked past the law. As far as the urgency of the procedure is concerned, it would all make sense if you said in the first part of the sentence that our failure to adopt the law under an emergency procedure could call into question the ability of the BIA to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, but you did not say so. You said that our failure to adopt the law by emergency procedure would question the possibility of a BIA. In the first part of the verb “might” is not available. You told us that if we don't pass the law by emergency procedure, the BIA won't be able to work. Why did you say that, Mr. Vulin or, if that's true, and we didn't pass the emergency procedure law, so that the BIA didn't work in the last eight months, please, explain to us?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33926	Thank you. Minister Alexander Vulin, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33927	Thank you. It worked hard, as it does now. It's very difficult when you don't receive a single employee for two years and you have a natural outflow, people are going to retire, looking for new jobs, and you don't receive a single worker and pretend like everything's going to be okay. Of course it's hard. What happened, or you think nothing happened, or we're not sure anything happened, is not BIA someone who's going to go out in the papers and explain the difficulties in everyday work. For me, even though he's a busy worker and if a worker does more jobs than he should, it's very dangerous for me. I don't want to wait for the consequences. I want to work things out before the consequences come out, and here I'm telling you that the consequences of this kind of act could come true. Whether they came or not, we see that the earth is still, so they're not. And can they perform? Well, he can always perform. But we must not do or do anything that is in our human power without at least avoiding the possibility of this happening. That can't happen. Why are we passing the law? No, come on, it's best to let it be arbitrary. Let's not do it with the law, let's leave it at will. Let's keep it the way it's been so far, call on some other law, and make an internal act that we can do whatever we want and whatever we want. I'm in favor of the law. I don't see what's so difficult that we can regulate that practice with the law? What's the problem? I've already explained that the norm used to refer to the Police Act. The law on police no longer meets the needs of the BIA, because it has changed certain provisions that are difficult for the BIA to accept. That's why the BIA Act is made into this norm that is now the original norm, which now gives BIA the opportunity to operate according to its own law. What's the problem? Why is it a problem if we regulate something by law, instead of leaving it quiet, or how did it work? I believe in the rule of law, this is the rule of law. Instead of congratulating BIA workers, telling them that they've given a good solution, that they've given a solution that works, that suits their needs, we're accusing them here for everything and everything. As for your lack of Bratislav Gasic, you did not have Bratislava Gasic, just as you did not have Alexander Vukic, and therefore you have 2% in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33928	The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33929	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would at first take advantage of the opportunity to commend the chairman and the secretariat because, in the preparation of the list of speakers in the present period, we had the opportunity to see 50% so-called. less represented sex, or women. When we talk about the Army, it brings a different view and a different aspect of the view of the military, even if it is also a language doubt, or an analysis of the law from that language aspect, colleagues from across the street. I'm not going to talk very closely today about increasing the military's battle effort and restoring military equipment, because on the previous day, we had the opportunity to hear from the minister what was restored and how all the military has been equipped in recent years, as well as to improve the lives and work of military personnel who, after X years, are getting new uniforms, as we've heard, are increasing their wages, etc., not to detail. Today I would take the opportunity to look back at the Decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations. Although some opposition MPs dispute participation in international missions, I believe that peacekeeping missions strengthen security capacity and defend Serbia's sovereignty and integrity. By participating members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia confirms that it contributes specifically to world but also regional stability and respect for international law, as well as peace. I also want to point out today the link between international peace missions and education. Members of the Serbian Army and members of the interior ministry have twice the benefit of participating in multinational operations. Not only do I participate in international operations proudly represent the Republic of Serbia, but through exchanges of experiences that have the opportunity to experience on these missions with members of other armed forces, pardons, other states, they sort of repair the capacities and qualities of the military forces of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to commend today the BIA Act and the discretionary right of the Agency's director to choose his associates on his own, without public publication, or to employ operatives in the BIA. Because for those of you who don't realize it, the BIA represents a secret service and it would be really terrible to let BIA operatives put themselves on the line and thus step out of their service. Of course, I can't help but mention current events related to Serbia's airports today, and please don't interrupt me, because as for both Serbia's armies and everyone else, that is, specifically at Constantin Great Airport in Nis and at Morava Airport in Kralje. Serbian citizens should know that it is not the point of a protest in Nis whether the airport should run the professional management of the Republic or local entrepreneurs, but the point is that the yellow company by who knows which way it is trying to cause riots, including protests and a yellow duck, which, apparently, now no longer wants to strangle Belgrade, but also wants to strangle Nis. The yellow company and its satellites that have built an access building in Shipjevci, which cost 1.1 billion, in the meadow, without any access trails, without any possibility of the building being put into operation, are likely to be able to build and buy some pastures in Belgrade from a commission from the construction of the building or otherwise and without any plan to actually use the building and that the 1.1 billion dinars of Serbian citizens should be used for the function for which they should be. I say – a yellow company, because I really don't know which party Đilas, Jeremic, Jankovic, Sutanovac are in anymore, and all of them have destroyed the future of us and our children together. Serbian citizens can't forget that. They don't want to forget that a yellow company with its tycoons took their future and won't let them do it again. In light of the previous speakers, and mentioning the yellow company, I would only explain the linguistic doubt that the yellow company can cross the censorship in the next election, which absolutely does not mean that it will really cross over. It can only be, like everyone else. I ask you, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the citizens of Kraljev, Raška district, Moraviga, Šumadski, Rasinski, to engage actively in the conversion process of the Morava airport into military-civility and thus allow the Morava airport, of course, along with the Government, to be put into operation as soon as possible for civilian traffic, because only military traffic is being carried out at that airport for the time being. So let's give the yellow company a chance to put that building they built on the meadows really into operation. In the end today, I would also like to commend the approximation of Serbia's army to Serbia's citizens and Serbia's defiled Army on the Day of the Army, which took place on Monday in several Serbian cities, including the Kingdom, because I really had the opportunity not only to see what the Army had, but also to see the enthusiasm of the citizens for what they had had the opportunity to see. I believe that, not only did they get to know the equipment and personnel of the Serbian Army, but, in some ways, they have increased confidence in the Serbian Army, which I also believe is the tendency of the Serbian Army. I hope you will continue at the same pace in the coming years, but perhaps in several Serbian cities. Although I want the generation of our children and grandchildren to grow up in peace and that there will never be a war on Serbia's premises again, I also want to have a strong army that will be a strong foundation and in peace, and therefore, like my fellow MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party, in the day of the vote, I will support the set of laws that you have proposed to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33930	Thank you. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33931	Thank you. We heard, of course, lies and lies again by the SNS, who, for its six years, had ruined the corrupt authorities of Serbia, which owed Serbia 11 billion...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33932	Ambassador, please replicate. You have received a replica to replicate Maja Macužić Puzic at her presentation and to mention the president of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33933	That's right, and I'm doing it now. Please give me back my time. I'm talking about what SNS has done in the last six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33934	What does that have to do with her exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33935	There is, of course, because she's a member of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33936	No, but you have to answer whether it's true or not, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33937	I answer, of course, let me answer. Don't, please, can a colleague answer herself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33938	Let's start over, please, because it's hard for me to count the time, I didn't understand anything you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33939	They understand citizens very well what we from the opposition say, citizens who don't have money for electricity, citizens who have empty refrigerators, whose tanks are empty and whose banknotes are empty, while your SNS are increasingly full of bills and you have more and more functions. As you say - we from the yellow company when we came to power in 2001 and when the prime minister became Zoran Djindjic we found an average salary in Serbia of 30 euros. We've left an average salary of 300 euros, we've increased the average salary ten times. We returned the old foreign savings that you took from the citizens of Serbia, you and your coalition partners, we returned the old foreign savings. We have returned the poor citizens of Serbia to the 13 remaining pensions that you have taken from them. We brought back the mothers with the children you're talking about, the 12 remaining children's supplements. These are the consequences of your rule. We brought the country back to the UN because we were expelled from all international organizations. We returned the land and we lifted the visas. These are the benefits and it was done by the DS while it was in power from 2001 to 2003 and then from 2007 to 2012. You've been in power for six and a half years without interruptions. No citizen in Serbia who is not a member of the SNS lives better. You'd be better off living only you from SNS and tycoons and criminals who help you. And about who did what, so arrest them all. Arrest anyone who broke the law. You've been in power for six and a half years. You marked a man as the biggest drug dealer in Europe, you freed him, and you tried him for geodetic irregularities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33940	You've wasted your time. The Democratic Party has been in power since 2000, and I don't know why you're giving up the results of the October 5, 2000 revolution. Don't confuse these younger generations. (Radoslav Milojic: January 15th 2001) I don't know how Zoran Djindjic was prime minister since October. Who was the prime minister? Sit down. You and I will have a chat later. It's no problem. (Radoslav Milojic: May I take it? ) You can't, because you finished your two-minute and ten-second exposure. For what? [[(Radoslav Milojic: It was a replica. I have two and a half minutes as authorized.]] What are you authorized to do, legislator? (Radoslav Milojičić: Authorised Proposer of the DS Group. All right, hold on a second. But the list has to be torn apart to re-use its two-minute right just at the end of the list. (Radoslav Milojičić: Please don't know that in that position. It's elemental ignorance. You don’t know anything, for example, that you can’t speak for two minutes now, but only when the list is exhausted. It's sad, but we've been here for years, and you don't know the Rules of Procedure. A little patience, you'll be here tomorrow, about two hours. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Take it easy. Don't harass me. Here, I'll vote if you take me to that assembly of yours, if you'll promise me you'll let us work a little. (Radoslav Milojic: There would be a lot for you to have the ninth party. ) Well, about as Alexandra Jerkov, who sits behind you, is now running for party president. It's democracy. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure! Let me run the session. The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzić, a replica of your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33941	I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I also have a basis for replica, because my colleague mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33942	Let's just discuss who's running the session. Sit down, too, because I would beg all of you together to have an understanding that only one person can hold a session. So, don't let me give you one base, and then tell me on what basis you're going to talk about it, and that goes for everything. I gave you a line, because you didn't have a Rules of Procedure upstairs, and now you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, and tell me by which member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33943	Thank you. Maybe, I'm sorry, we didn't get it right. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. A colleague was abused by the Rules of Procedure, because I did not mention at any time during the speech a colleague or party from which he came, but a yellow company. The fact that he's putting himself in that yellow company, that's another thing. So I suggest you take away these two minutes that he has abused after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33944	Thank you. Unfortunately, MPs can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I think that when we do a new proposal or draft Rules of Procedure, we should put it in, because the chairman seems the least he can do is hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure! Rules of Procedure! Quiet! I can't run parliament any more than you, MP. I can't concentrate. You've been harassing me for two days. I can't have a session. It's already mobing at work. This is a job and this is already a mobing. Where was I? Yes, you mentioned in your speech, perhaps accidentally, Dragan Sutanovac. There's got to be a synopsis. That's why he won, because he's still... Did he resign now? (Maya Macužić Puzic: He is not the president. I can't follow it, I'm sorry, it's my fault. I don't know that Dragan Sutanovac is no longer president of the DS. I don't know who he is now. Nobody. Okay, now I can interpret the wider. Until he chooses a new one, he has to run the DS, even though he doesn't want to. We met somewhere halfway. But I gave the candidates for party president. Don't be angry, 'cause I can't send everything away. A lot of work, a lot of party changes. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure! Take it easy. That's what I don't think I've broken, just out of ignorance about the movement to the DS. Some time it justifies it. (Maya Macužić Puzić: I do not ask to make a statement.) ( b) Who else reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Marijan Rističević, and then we will return to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Count or Davidovic, as he spoke of the advances, my coalition partners, spoke all the worst. In doing so, he criminalized the SNS, a coalition partner, though, I'm minority, but I felt hurt. And that's what the person who forgot to read the latest works of Dragoljub Markovic "Broken Product" said so he could find criminals of the type Cumet, etc. That crime of theirs can't pin it on us, but I'm surprised. I'm surprised they're not ashamed of anything, that I'm almost ashamed of them for nothing. Of such cheeks, and the Minister of the Army is there, you can automatically make vests, for thick calibers, these are penetrating cheeks, so it can be military shoes from that. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33946	I hope you don't mind if someone hurt you. That's not where I'm going. I didn't understand. What was I doing here to hurt the Rules of Procedure? I wasn't involved in it. Okay. Who else wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure before Radoslav Milojic? The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33947	The President-in-Office has been violated by the Rules of Procedure. 108th and 109th. I think that a warning should be made to the MP who spoke, because members of the former regime, used to destroy the institutions of the state, and now they want the BIA to build a municipal police force at a time when in the region and in Europe we have a trend to strengthen the capacity of security services and the security sector in general. Due to continuing security threats, endangering the security of citizens, and in all countries we have an increase in the budget and number of members and employees in the Security Sector only the yellow sector would continue to collapse the state in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33948	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33949	President, I'm advertising Article 108, I can do a number of other members, because if you want to debate with us from the opposition, from the DS parliamentary group, you know very well, by the Rules of Procedure you have to go down to the bench, pick up the word, and then debate. I'm glad you SNS debated for 10 minutes on DS, who's president of the DS, what's going on, and that's good because you know that only DS can replace you and replace you in the next election and I don't know if the citizens have heard that you asked my colleague Vidinovic and me if you can come to the DS to vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33950	I'm not, and now I'm going to shut you down, because you're distracting the MPs here, you're bringing the truth to the public. (Radoslav Milojic: Can I finish? ) First of all, I can interrupt you, you said Article 108. Number one, he used Igor Becic in 108. Two, you missed the matter, because what you're talking about is in article 100, just listen a little bit. (Radoslav Milojic: I said other members. ) Article 100. I said, if you'll let me come to that assembly of yours. I'll vote for you if you stop harassing me until that assembly of yours is held. (Radoslav Milojic: You have changed eight parties. I'll do 202, but just look around you in a society where you're sitting in as many parties as they've been. (Radoslav Milojic: Maja Vidinović in none. I'm 202, maybe 230, that's not the problem with you or the little voter you've got. (Radoslav Milojic: We are from small...) Yes, your parents were planning to join the DS. We relaxed a little bit, and we joked about this violation of the Rules of Procedure, which the previous speaker tried unknowingly, and I won't take two minutes for it, because they've wasted their time otherwise. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33951	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I thank you for making these nervous opposition MPs... I understand both their actions today and their anxiety, because Mr. Bratislav Gasic announced that he will deal with both economic security and fight corruption, and they are involved in all of this, and it is indeed justifiable anxiety. Dear Defence Ministers with co-workers, respected BIA representatives, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us with very important military laws, but also in the BIA area, and these two areas are really important for our country's security, and this time I want to point out that we are really proud of our army, the Army of the Republic of Serbia. What I would like first to point out is that the military participates in UN multinational operations, where we also safeguard our military neutrality, contributes to Serbia's approach to the EU, but also shows that Serbia is an active factor in maintaining world peace, which is really our task. This shows and confirms our own reputation and I really think that our government, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the president of Serbia, has succeeded in restoring Serbia's reputation in the world. What I want to point out is that our army, and our Serbia, as part of a region that has gone through a very difficult period in the past, attaches special importance to building peace. I would point out that in a very short time we managed to be among the top 10 European countries by the number of peacemakers within the UN, more precisely in the ninth place, and that we are in the world's top 46th position and that we are now an exporter from the former importers of security without a doubt. In addition to that... (Radoslav Milojic: You have imported security. Please do not disturb me or disturb me. I know you're nervous about those announced measures and preserving economic security, but that's what the D.A.'s organs are gonna solve, and for now let me speak. In addition, it says that this year, as many as 700 participants of our military were planned through peacekeeping missions. It is also very important for the Ministry of Defence to pay particular attention to the increase in the number of women employed within the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions and the fact that between 2002 and 2015 the number of women was around 7%. Now that number reaches up to 10%, which is really for every praise, and the fact that the number of women employed in the Central African Republic in our contingent is 40% for every commendation and that we members of the Women's Parliamentary Network will certainly commend it. I would also like to stress that our team of doctors and medical staff through the peace missions deserves all the praise, as this also raises the credibility of VMA and our doctors, and our doctors manage to acquire new knowledge and experience through their stay in some countries. What the minister also said during yesterday's debate was that teams of our doctors were praised and that their high level of professionalism, as well as the entire medical staff, were stressed, not just by doctors. To me as a doctor, it's really for pride, because that shows how much we've arranged all these segments and how much we're appreciated in the world. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that here, I say, there has been a legitimate anxiety of MPs on the other hand, when it comes to BIA, and it only bothers them that Mr. Bratislav Gasic is in that place. As a fellow citizen of Mr. Gasic, as someone who has known him for 10 years, because we have since the beginning of the SNS and I regret that Mr. Gasic has frozen his status, because every job has so far been responsible and has followed extraordinary results. They should not be concerned that Mr. Gasic is headed by the BIA, because the previous regime has abused the BIA, but it will not continue for sure, let them be convinced, because Mr. Gasic has all functions, as I said, performed responsibly and followed extraordinary results. If they had some illicit and legally prohibited acts, let them be afraid, their fear is justified, and so my colleagues from my neighborhood see the BIA, a colleague from Triestenik who is not here today, probably after yesterday's debate so scared that he's in fear of what's going to happen, that he might not end up behind bars. I just want to add that the new law only regulates and better organizes this service, and I want to commend the work of this agency, because in the past few months we've had several high-risk meetings and we know that they've gone without even one single incident, which means that this Agency and other security services are doing their job well. It is commendable that the Agency is acting both preventively and that Mr. Bratislav Gasic has managed to prevent the fight against extremism and terrorism, and that the intensive co-operation of BIA, MUP and the Ministry of Defence is being achieved. That co-operation is never better. It's for every praise, and that yellow company hurts the most, because they've only done this country harm and desolation and now they're afraid not to go out and find all their malversions, all their affairs and everything they've done in the period until 2012. Ministers, BIA representatives, I support you in your activities and I am grateful that you make our children safe and safe in Serbia, because Serbia deserves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33952	Thank you. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33953	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, laws that are ahead of us regulate an extremely sensitive system and a responsible part of the state apparatus, especially today in the Balkans, circumstances, challenges our region faces, especially in light of experiences from the near past. This is particularly important to us, non-Serb peoples, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are making efforts to bring all the institutions of the state closer to their people and that people experience these institutions with their own. That is why we believe that most of these proposals are quality and necessary, and that we almost never have a problem with legal solutions, but with their implementation, which again depends on the human resources or the relationships of those people who act as important functions, and in the eyes of the people are national representatives. In the context of building the trust that counterpart Zukorlic spoke of yesterday, and as complementary to this presentation, it is very important in military schools, high school, academy, to receive more members of other peoples, as well as among officers and executive staff at the responsible posts in Serbia and BIA. It is a concrete way of increasing the confidence of all citizens, especially 20% and more non-Serbs. Trust is not built up by exclusive attitudes, gestures and acts, even though they were made and unconscious, but by breadth and openness which must be carefully and measured. Although we have a visual shift relative to the previous state, unfortunately, we have not yet reached that level. I will illustrate this with an example or scandal that took place at the celebration of the Day of the Land Army of Serbia, when the commander of the General Col. Milisav Simovic, on behalf of the Serbian Army and the state, sang the step "Mountain My, the Mountain", a Chetnic song in which the original text, which Simovic modified, also appeared: "and many Turks of the sea killed, I flowered Turkish mothers and the brothers of the Serbs of the sea." Although these verses Simovic modifies and says: “The Chetnik barrac sea wore also the Serb brothers always holy, the Chetnik biraque sea wore, the souls of our sea killed. “ It is unacceptable for any member of the Serbian Army, even if an ordinary soldier at an official rally is offended, humbled, intimidated by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially by his colleagues, members of other peoples, religions, and nations, who have no positive emotions toward the Chetniks and their roles in previous wars, especially in the Second World War, from which this step encourages, as a modified version of an old war song. Such an act gives an argument to those who call the Army of Serbia a Chetnik and who are working to mistrust non-Serb peoples, citizens of the Republic of Serbia towards the military, and even more countries in the region. If we remember that all the evil in the Balkans, in Yugoslavia, in the 1990s, was heated with primitive folklore, given the strength of this folklore, these phenomena must be contained at every turn in the root. In the spirit of justice and reconciliation policy, we call on Lieutenant General Simovic to apologize to his colleagues and to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially to the non-Serbs for this act, and from Minister Vulin, Government and President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, as commander-in-chief, to do everything to ensure that never again such unloved scenes would appear. Serbia's army must be the Army of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the postulate must not be endangered because of such and similar incidents. Our ideal should be to build a relationship of respect for soldiers, as the former SFRY had a relationship with a member of the JNA. Because the Army is a people's one, in terms of human resources and investments through tax and other donations, are made and built by members of all peoples, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the majority of MPs in this hall share the same views and that we are bound not only by the European future, but also by the awareness that we must leave this country in the heritage of generations whose peace, reconciliation, co-existence and unity will not have an alternative, to which the military will be guaranteed protection and values and aspirations, and which will compete with each other, measure forces exclusively in the economy, science, art, sport and similar areas, which will more than anything else value and respect a man of varying and free. We see our own and the future of our children in this country. We await and believe that the day will come when we will be proud to say this is our army, that is our BIA, these are the institutions of all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33954	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33955	I really regret if anyone felt in any way hurt because of the singing by the commander of the Land Army, General Simovic, but I must tell you that from my point of view I don't understand why he would feel hurt. I must tell you immediately that there were also senior officers of the Serbian Army of Muslim religion and Bosniak nationality at the time, and I have not noticed that they have been injured in any way. Why would they be? The song you're talking about is a song from the Balkan wars. I do not experience members of the Bosniak nation and Muslim religion as our enemies and occupiers from 1912. There's no way I can connect you to that. Not at all. Don't be in that direction. I will remind you, at the time, of the struggles fought by the Serbian state, the Bulgarian state, something we could call Albanian tribes, there was no state, the state only comes in 1912 and, of course, Turkish regular and irregular forces. The Chetniks you're talking about were volunteering orders that, with the consent of the government of the then-Serbian Republic, went to the area, very often protected the people from Turkish Zulu and participated in the struggles with Bulgarian committees, with the Turkish military, with Albanian cages and, of course, tried to achieve the political goals of the government of the then Kingdom. I must tell you that in those Chetnik units one of the bravest was Mustafa Golubic, a brilliant soldier, with the legendary Army of Tankosic. You have Muhammad Mehmedbasic who certainly owed the Serbian people his patriotism, his courage, his resistance to occupation, and they sang these songs. I don't think they felt hurt at the time of that fight. You know, it's like if I did, here's what I'm gonna say. I was originally, as you know, from Republika Srpska, the capital of the Republic of Serbia, Banja Luka. Imagine me standing up in a bar, going out and writing a statement, when I hear some band singing "Is You Sorry Banja Luka", "The road travels Latif Aga". A song like a song, I don't think anyone can and should be angry about it. He shouldn't be angry about it. What you're talking about is part of our history, part of which I want it never to come back. Well, we don't want war with the Turks, but I don't see you, dear professor, as an occupation in this country. It's your army, your country. Thus, this very relationship is to the liberating traditions of this people. I didn't get any freedom from Istanbul either, he didn't. We were born here, this is our piece of land. So I ask you and I want you to see the Army of Serbia as your own and that I never, ever hear that the Army is an occupation in New Market. No, with great pleasure we should go to Novi Pazar, see with the people what the problems are, take care of the religious freedom we have in the Serbian Army, allow everyone to pray to God in our uniform according to their religion and to take care of his customs, his diet, the world's understanding. So that's what the Serbian Army is doing, and this, don't, have no reason. You're part of our country and thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33956	Right on the replica, MP Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33957	Dear Minister, thank you for this clarification. I agree with a lot of what you said. This song is older than the Balkan wars, and that's all some kind of transformation. What I was talking about, if you listened to me carefully, refers to the wars that occurred, especially World War II, and that song was then used and used in those parts when those orders that came from this honorable army, which was also owned by Mustafa Golubovic, who later went towards the Cominterna, rebelled, had instructions to destroy the Muslim people in the Sandzak area and these are relevant historical data. If only that hadn't happened, if it hadn't been for the cause of those who wanted to abuse it, who don't think well of you or us from the ranks of any other people, I don't think there should be such songs and giving cause to anyone to spread intolerance to the international and interfaith. Especially since the Constitution does not allow such a thing and especially that it is the Army of Serbia, the army of all peoples living in Serbia and I simply share what you said, that it is our Army, but that we also need to take care of another and different. That is why I have fenced myself and said that it is probably unconscious to come to this and I have asked you and the Honorable President that, in the future, because of the sensitivity of these phenomena, these little things, which, unfortunately, can easily lead to disagreements in this Balkan area, which would obviously suit some, and for us as citizens of this country, as someone who sees the future and himself and their children in this country and who is building these institutions and wants good for all institutions, this is not going to do any good. I'm sure I'll be at my disposal when you come to New Market and anywhere, to talk to both the soldiers and the others about this stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33958	Thank you. Now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm giving a break. We continue at 1600 hours per article 205. Rules of Procedure. Resumption of the session, the debate continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33959	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in the time foreseen for this. According to Article 205. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs who have not yet done so, to submit applications for asking questions. I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then by MPs from least to the largest parliamentary group. With this, we move on to asking parliamentary questions and the word has a People's MP, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33960	Honorable members of the government, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the situation in the Sandzak area, related to the field of organised crime. A few days ago, another one surfaced in a series of affairs concerning the collection of money by citizens to build roads. Earlier we thought it was a normal phenomenon, however, it is not easy to conclude that it is an illegal operation, because money was collected on lists without any necessary receipts. We from the Justice and Reconciliation Party have come to the data that still comes to us to say from 37 villages in the Tutin municipality, as one of the poorest in the country's area raised 1.574 euros for the construction of rural roads. Some of it was done, something wasn't done. In the municipality, they say they don't know how to raise those funds. So it's a large-scale illegal operation. In the Sjenica area, this phenomenon is even more drastic in terms of raising money and for roads whose work has not happened at all. So the collection of funds organized municipal administrations through their activists. My question is directed at the Prime Minister and the Ministers in charge - when will it start with an extensive investigation, because it's a huge organised crime, so that finally once it ends, so that citizens get answers about what happened to these funds and who could possibly lead this kind of action? Another question, regarding the border crossings of Miratovac-Lojana and Cer-Supot in the Presevo area. In fact, on many occasions we were addressed by citizens from the Presevo area to make it very important that these border crossings open, because citizens living on both sides of the border, especially during the tourist season, have major problems and wait for several hours at known existing border crossings. It would be very important to access the opening of these border crossings, to facilitate communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33961	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33962	Thank you. We'll check it out. We don't have this information right now, and I'm going to check that I'm going to get you information on whether it's started with the investigation, and if it isn't, when it's going to start the investigation as soon as possible, today, during the day, while we're here or we're going to send it through written channels, as well as for border crossings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33963	You have the right to an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33964	I thank you and I understand. I suppose by now this information must have been officially out of your hands, even though the media recently wrote about it. The situation is completely alarming, the truth, I know, even many of my colleagues here when I spoke informally, say they simply don't believe that someone collects funds in euros on some wild lists to build roads. Believe me, I thought until I came to this assembly to do it everywhere, that it was some normal phenomenon that citizens were participating, but it was no wonder that it was done without some legal procedure and through some normal documentation. But believe me, what happens with the abuse of citizens' money, I have to say the poor, because if anyone walks these villages, they're the poorest places in this country and imagine they dare to steal this kind of money from that poor woman in a way that's just something that's on the verge of amazing. I understand why you are not now in a position to give me answers, but what is important is that this phenomenon regarding the abuse of citizens' money for alleged road construction is only part of the general state of organised crime in the Sandzak area, especially in Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica. So I would also expect an answer, if not today, because I don't see the Minister of the Interior here, when an extensive action will begin with organised crime in the Sandzak area. Every day we have in the press information about drug dealers that there are drug dealers in all parts of the country, that there is crime at maybe every point in this country. Crime is not a problem while it's an accident exception, but we in Sandzak have crime on the surface. Today, in some local government positions, you will be more likely to achieve some results to solve a problem through drug dealers in Novi Pazar or elsewhere, rather than through official representatives elected in power. In this context, it is not by chance that the struggles over which the prison manager in Novi Pazar will be, because this is one of the most important personnel issues, etc. So, for this space, given that we also have a transition to Kosovo and the border to Montenegro, the point is neural and requires a truly comprehensive emergency action expected by the government and the competent ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33965	Thank you. The word has Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33966	In any case, I'd ask the citizens with whom someone showed up looking for money to build roads, without any evidence that he was in charge of it or the receipts, to report it to the police, if they didn't report it, so that we could have all the information and start investigating. It's really amazing for me to think that someone realistic in the area of local self-government who is not particularly economically developed in this way has raised 1.5m euros, or more than that. But let's take a look, of course, it's an amazing thing, but we're going to question it. I also ask the citizens to report these things to the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33967	Thank you. Would you like a comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33968	Although I'd like to have heard a little bit more, but I repeat, I understand because you can't answer thematically any deeper, but thank you for this finding and for calling the citizens. The key thing is, and that's what we want to hear even louder from your government, that the citizens are emancipated, that they are free of fear and that they can clearly hear from this position, as you have now said, to report, to report, because people are so scared, terrified of local powers, and it is very important that from your position, from the position of the ministry, the police, the judiciary and the prosecution to tell them what their rights are, that they are told that they have a place to turn. Because, believe me, in the area especially of Tutina and Sjenica for over two decades, there has been a kind of awe of government, where everything is tampered with and sewn together, by a wild cigarette seller, through shops, inspections, etc. I'm asking you to help us all together, and we're going to set people free, so people can say loud, call you, write, report. That's exactly what we're trying to do these days. So we're asking the citizens to report, to deliver, because these are things they can't hide. We have precise lists here. So, there are lists of citizens and they're completely public, it's only important that what you've said is actually, from today on, to get into action from the position of the MUP and other competent authorities, so that, in fact, after that investigation, it really does determine what happened, and in the end, so that it never happens again. It is very important that we have a permanent message from the government and state positions that government and state are protecting citizens, and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33969	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33970	Thank you. Although we held two very important talks with the PDD delegation, first with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia on 8 June 2016, and then after a year with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic on the topic of reorganising the government's co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, which was more effective in solving the very difficult and sensitive life problems of Albanians in Serbia. Despite the fact that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister of the government, said that the PDD delegation's demands were acceptable, so far we have no answer for the proposals we have made in writing and in the conditions in which I, as an MP, supported the parliamentary majority. It is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia and other top state authorities do not show good will to co-operate transparently with the legitimate president of the Albanian national minority in order to ensure a serious approach in resolving the very difficult situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33971	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33972	Dear People's MP, first of all, I think we'll agree that whenever you asked for a meeting with me as Prime Minister, I've always found time to meet and talk about Presevo and Bujanovac. For all we could do, we went out to meet. There are some things that local self-government must do for themselves. As for some important things, for example, Health care, opened and started working in Presevo in July 2015. In the economy, the coordination body supports small and medium-sized enterprises. We have gone seriously into the integration of the Albanian population into all state bodies. What is the problem is, of course, that the Albanian population, especially in Presevo, does not speak Serbian. That is why the co-ordination body has launched a comprehensive training of Serbian language in the Presevo municipality. In addition, we opened the Faculty of Economics in Bujanovac, so students could attend the university there. She's been moved before the cops. As for the textbooks in Albanian, we were open to co-operation, we did not move because of the problems in the functioning of the National Council of the Albanian National Minority. In addition to special individual meetings with you, as Prime Minister and President of the Republic Council for National Minorities, I have, if I am not mistaken, had three sessions of the Republic Council for National Minorities in which we are all talking together about how best to involve national minorities in the social, economic and political life of the Republic of Serbia. If I'm not mistaken, we have the next meeting of the Republic Council for National Minorities on 11 May. So I would disagree with you if the Government of the Republic of Serbia was not open to a transparent dialogue with you. As for the local elections in Presevo, when local self-government was disbanded because it did not provide continuous work, we made sure that they were discussed in time and maintained in time. So, all we could do was do. We can pay more attention to Presevo and Bujanovac, but believe it anyway – no one more often than the local self-government than the Bujanovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33973	Thank you. Would you like an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33974	We thank the Prime Minister for always being acceptable when we asked for a reception with you, but you yourself said you'd file a report from the government. We haven't gotten that report yet. Secondly, you have our request in writing. For all these points of our demands, President Vukic said they were acceptable, and we have not yet begun to realise any of these demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33975	Thank you. The question is asked by Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33976	Thank you. My questions are for Prime Minister Brnabic and I would ask her to answer me. At a meeting of the National Convention on the EU held in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 22 April 2018, with the subject of the European Commission's Progress Report on Serbia, you said the government has no capacity to respond to the challenges it faces. If that's true, then the question arises why is it delaying the government's announced reconstruction? We believe that reconstruction is necessary because the government does not really function as a team, as you yourself stated in the announcement of reconstruction. Ministers make a dissuasive statement about the reconstruction. Minister Dacic would not change anything, Minister Ljajic if he were relieved that there will be no reconstruction, Minister Mihajlovic that he is always ready for reconstruction, and for Minister Vujovic we do not even know whether he is still a minister or has resigned, which the public is circulating for the time being unconfirmed information. He has long not been present in parliament to explain the laws and loans on which his signatures stand. We hope it doesn't go untraceable without a promised final financial report. Regarding the mentioned session of the EU National Convention. At the press conference, you said you weren't interested in grades, you were interested in recommendations. I'll read some of the grades you said you weren't interested in. The ruling majority is preventing Parliament from considering the proposed laws. That's what happens at this session. I note that the laws are a public matter, and that they concern the whole public and that all MPs here should discuss them. Strong pressure on the judiciary, widespread corruption, growing concern about the situation in the media, i.e. freedom of speech, bringing independent bodies down to decor and politicising the state administration. We believe that your statement is completely contrary to the declared view that this government's goal is to join the EU, and we believe that we need you to explain it to us. Is it true that because of the poor results in the anti-money laundering area, which is why we found ourselves on the FATF blacklist, as well as in the area of the rule of law or the judiciary, the government has engaged World Bank consultants, although it is true how much such engagement costs Serbian citizens since it is known that the prices of such services are extremely high? When will it be prepared and put on the agenda of the Return Act of taken property and compensation in terms of general subsidisation of other substitute assets? I note that the government said it would be very effective on this issue and announced this law in December 2017. The questions I asked as...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33977	Thank you very much. You'll continue. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33978	I must say again and I will appeal really for an open dialogue and a constructive dialogue, above all, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we hear a direct and open lie, then it's really hard for me to keep listening to questions, is it amazing to me that someone is not telling the truth so openly? When you talk about my opening speech, at the National Convention session and fortunately, there are video materials, recorded TV attachments, you say I said – I am not interested in grades but recommendations. I said and quote, I said I heard that statement from Tanja Miscevic, I said – our grades are important, and our recommendations are even more important. Some other MPs have been on it and can testify now. So when I say grades are important to us, and you say I said we're not interested in grades. It is an open deception of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, I said - our grades are important, our recommendations are even more important. Because the grades are behind us now, and the recommendations are what we have yet to do. And the grades are like that, and now I don't have to talk about it, or you, who are the opposition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or someone who is the position of the Government of Serbia, were, just this last week in Serbia and the Prime Minister of Belgium and the President of the Council of Europe and the President of the European Investment Bank, and all of them said that the report on Serbia's progress is positive, that there are things that we need to improve, and I said that at the presentation of the report with Ambassador Sam Fabrizia, too, but that the report on Serbia is positive and that Serbia has made remarkable progress, that it is in this, and particularly in the economy, the leader in the region. In what we should do further, first of all in the rule of law, there is no discussion. We have to do so and I said – we will do and do, as I did yesterday with Minister Kuburovic, in the work of the electronic justice service, so that we can see completely transparently all the statistics on the number of cases that came to the courts and on the number of cases that were completed and when they were finished, and that we can connect the databases, so that for six months no more citizens who were waiting for a lawsuit in court, waiting for one paper, all that could have been done 15 years ago and should have been done. Therefore, full efficiency and transparency in the work of the judiciary. We have also been working for more than nine months on a discussion of the public dialogue on the reform of the Constitution in the domain of the judiciary, in order to make the best possible draft amendments that we will then send to the Venice Commission, which is, of course, the most called, it seems to me to say whether these proposed amendments are in line with European norms. I remind you that in 2006, when much more comprehensive amendments to the Constitution were not any public debate, and this proposal was not even sent to the Venice Commission for consideration, and now we have fantastic criticism about how this is a non-democratic closed process that lasts nine months and goes to the Venice Commission. In doing so, we did this together with experts from the Council of Europe. This is all about our seriousness and serious approach to reforming the rule of law, which I conclude we are not working for the EU, but we are working for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy in the Republic of Serbia. The government doesn't have the capacity. I also said, and I suppose you belong to this democratic option, that the power of a government when it says it has no capacity because no government has any serious capacity anywhere in the world to do everything together, so that there would be no NGOs, there would be no associations of businessmen and various other associations that try to give recommendations in one democratic society to the government from the areas where they work. This government is open, democratic and responsible. And, he says, there are organisations that know a lot more in some things than we do with these organizations, and we will talk to them, so that we don't waste time and that the sooner they implement everything that needs to be done, the better the quality of life in Serbia. There were governments before 2013, about Serbia and I know it, because I was in the National Alliance for Local and Economic Development, just an organisation that tried to tell governments what to do to make it a better business environment in Serbia. There were governments who thought they were the smartest in the world and that they thought they had the capacity for everything and that's why they didn't do anything. This isn't such a government, the power of this government is to say, that's right, we don't know all the best in the world, we don't have all the capacities, we're going to talk to whoever we need to talk to in order for reforms in Serbia to be better quality and go faster and I'm proud of it. Finally, when we come to the reconstruction of the government, again, as a fully open democratic government, I don't understand it at all, again as someone who comes from the private sector, why the government's reconstruction is such a taboo topic. Where it's normal for you to have a government that says, these are now ministers and it turns out that someone may not be doing a good enough job, that someone has family problems, health problems, problems like this, problems like that, that they don't give themselves full capacity for that job and you say, no, because that's what the government has to stand for four years. Well, wait, people, then all those years you've been wasting all of Serbia's citizens. What's the problem with saying, okay, the government's reconstruction is always an open topic. What's the problem? We have quality, we have delivery solutions and results, either they're good or they're not good. The citizens are in first place. If we can do better, we'll change whoever needs to change to make it better, including me as Prime Minister. The only thing that matters is that every day some results are delivered to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33979	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33980	Thanks for the answer. Of course, I'm not happy. Please, President, respond. You have corrected me, and I will correct you. We were not visited by the President of the Council of Europe, he was the President of the European Council. But, well, I can consider that a lapus. Second, you told me I was so-called. a democratic option here, yes, so-called, because there is no democracy here. We are in autocracy and we who sit on this side cultivate the illusion of democracy, that younger generations have the impression and that they do not realize that one brain is a normal thing to do in a parliament. I don't understand why you're angry when you answer these questions, and why are you raising your voice? I asked questions, I wanted answers. It is not a reconstruction question whether the government's reconstruction is an open topic, the question is whether it is necessary or not? I did not get an answer on what happened to Minister Vujovic, and I received it in the National Assembly, all of us here received a notice, which is why ministers will not attend this session. Mr. Vujovic is not here. So I asked if Mr Vujovic resigned and do we no longer have an official finance minister? The next question that is also very important to me, which I have asked a few times as a parliamentary question and I have never received the answers is this: why, even though the deadline has passed more than a year ago, public companies' directors have not been elected in competitions, as well as why are there party officials at the head of certain public enterprises, such as "Serbiagas", EPS, "Serb's Corridors", "Serb's Post", "Serb's Post", as performers, when it is illegal? What is the reason why the Government violates the Law on Public Enterprises, which was adopted in March 2016 by the Parliament, on the proposal of the Ministry of Business? I note that so far, only nine directors, of 37 public enterprises, have been elected in a public competition. Everyone else is a V.O.O. So the deadline has already been over a year. Besides, these public enterprises that I've listed, and state-owned, they're our biggest losers. We have "Serbigas" where the debt of "Serbigas" has been converted into a public debt and credit has been taken to be paid back by Serbian citizens. It's actually inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33981	Thank you. Here you go, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33982	You're right. Yeah, I get mad sometimes because you're obviously telling the truth and I can't deal with it. That's why I'm angry and I think I have the right to be angry when someone twists words that I said loud and clear in this National Assembly, which are easily verifiable and are on all national media. You did not make a lapus – the Council of Europe or the European Council, no, you said something quite the opposite. You said that I said that I was not interested in grades, and I said – our grades are important. So from: “The grades are important to us, ” we came to the point that I was not interested in grades. It seems human to me that I have the right to be angry when my words are being misused and when such a message is being sent to the citizens. You know it's true, but you don't care. That there's no democracy and there's no one in the world that's unanimity, so you just said that the government should have all the capacities and not have to consult anyone, that there shouldn't be democracy and that there should be one-mindedness. I'm just saying the opposite. Did Minister Vujovic resign? Minister Vujovic was at a cabinet session today and now has some other obligations that made him unable to attend the National Assembly. Minister Vujovic returned from Washington last night to discuss a new arrangement with the IMF. I don't know how to answer these lies anymore? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33983	Thank you. Commentary, the word has a folk MP, Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33984	The question was, is it true? So, I didn't say it -- Minister Vujovic resigned. Time will show if I may have told the truth and whether this information that is unconfirmed will be confirmed. I think it'll be confirmed, but we're not going to talk about it in advance. I don't see why you're still mad about it. I can accept that you said that the grades are important, but I don't see anything about those grades being solved. So we here in parliament have a big problem. They repeat again – the laws are a public matter, and here we are unable to discuss these laws. So nothing's been done about it. As far as the media is concerned, nothing has been done about it either. So there's a lot that's been given grades that aren't good, and we don't see that there's anything on these issues that's been done. Since results are important to me, very concrete results, I will consider that for you important assessments are the moment I see that you have done and improved the state and quality of all these assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33985	Thank you. The question is asked by MP Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33986	I thank the president. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Ministers, a few days ago we had the opportunity to see the European Commission's report on the Republic of Serbia and what you said as prime minister, Mrs Brnabic, that the report is positive, balanced. I urge all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to go to the Ministry of European Integration site on their own and read what is in the report about the Republic of Serbia. What stands there and what it says there will not be found in any media, nor in any statement from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the report shows that Serbia is devastated, a destroyed state, destroyed institutions and a destroyed society and represents a real picture of the Republic of Serbia. I will read to you only some of the things from the Report, which is that there is no progress in the fight against corruption, or very little; that Serbia is on the FATF blacklist, high-risk countries to finance international terrorism and money laundering; that small results are in the fight against organised crime; that no progress has been made on freedom of expression; that the work of the National Assembly is not adequate; tabloidisation of society etc. Some of the sentences in the report are the following: therefore, human rights fighters are the subject of sharp criticism of tabloid newspapers; the National Assembly does not exercise effective control over the executive government; Serbia must achieve convincing results, especially in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime, including money laundering; criminal groups are involved in an increasing number of profitable illegal activities and reinvest a significant profit in the Serbian economy; no progress has been made in freedom of expression. In the end -- a legally binding agreement is urgent and crucial so that Serbia and Kosovo can progress on their European pathways. So these are just parts, I call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to read for themselves and understand for themselves what the government or different government is doing, headed by the SNS in the last six years in Serbia. Question for you, are you in line with the report and the last sentence about Kosovo, which I read, ready to sign as prime minister of a legal-binding agreement with Pristina, which provides Kosovo with a chair in the UN? Are you as prime minister ready to sign such an agreement and are the representatives of your government ready to sign such an agreement? Furthermore, have you met with representatives of the Transbury Lobby House in Belgrade, Mike Rubin and Jason Osborne and discussed lobbying services, who will pay and what benefit will Serbian citizens benefit from it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33987	Thank you. The prime minister has a word, then Jadranka Joksimovic, the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33988	This last question is really far the most fascinating of all others who, as well as statements, are quite amazing. If the report were positive, that the report on Serbia's progress, which was issued by the European Commission, was positive, I said as Prime Minister, but also EU representatives, who, I suppose, are perhaps the most called to assess what the report is like, after they have prepared it, and who are not always kind to Serbia and are quite objective, I would say sometimes, and for that I can give examples, quite unfair to Serbia compared to others. So these people said the report on Serbia's progress is very positive and that Serbia is a leader in the region. You say Serbia is devastated, a ruined state. I don't know how to start answering that, since I'm trying as Prime Minister to have maximum respect for the National Assembly and, unlike the Prime Minister, when you were in power, I come to this assembly regularly, every last Thursday of the month, to answer your questions and to give you a report on our work. Every time I try to make a brief report of what's been done. So every time you could hear the figures that say everything the opposite, the claims that Serbia was devastated and destroyed by the state. For this time, I'll answer your numbers again. So, Serbia has been so devastated and destroyed that last year, the Financial Times, which I would also say is credible and objective in assessing countries, has declared Serbia a world leader in attracting foreign direct investment. We were so devastated and destroyed last year that we attracted 2.6 billion euros of foreign direct investment, which is the historical maximum when it was considered that there were no major privatisations. January and February of this year, and that's what I prepared for today, because this new data from last month when I was here, say that foreign direct investment in January and February alone, compared to that historic good year, last year, rose by almost 22%, 21.8%, that total foreign direct investment in January and February in the Republic of Serbia amounted to 436 million euros, which is 80 million more than in the best year so far. We're so devastated. In addition, the Agency for Business Registers, therefore not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the Agency for Business Registers, came out the day before with a report saying – the profit of the economy in 2017 was 437 billion dinars, i.e. 3.7 billion euros more than a double result compared to 2016. We're so devastated. We've dropped public debt below 60%. Today 59.5%, therefore, is below the mastite criteria, which means much better than most EU members. There, we're so devastated. On today's day, the state of the Republic of Serbia's budget -- a 3.9 billion dinar surplus, the planned deficit in the first four months was 40.1 billion dinars. So the result is better than expected for only 44 billion dinars. We're so devastated. When we talk about the ruined state, only in the first four months has there been destroyed, the devastated state, your country, which I hope you should have pride in what I'm saying today, visited: the Prime Minister of Japan, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission, the Prime Minister of Belgium, the President of the European Council and the President of the European Investment Bank. There, we're so devastated. This country was so destroyed, they all got worried and came here to say Serbia is the leader in the region. I will not continue with the results and how pointless it is to say that Serbia today is devastated and destroyed by the state. That can really be said by someone who is only extremely malignancies and has no respect for what the results and figures say. As for the FATF, I will say once again, if it is worth anything, there is no blacklist and Serbia is not on any blacklist. Serbia is, unfortunately, on the list for enhanced monitoring or surveillance, although one of the few countries that is out of 40 recommendations, at the moment that one country in the world used all its influence to get on the list for enhanced monitoring, it fulfilled 35 of the 40 recommendations. At that point, we said – okay, we'll make a co-ordination body as Government, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior will run this coordination body and by the end of June we'll meet all the other recommendations and adopt all those laws that we were supposed to adopt in the next year. Since then, another five laws have been passed that you have adopted as a National Assembly and three additional laws, which we have adopted as a government as a proposal and referred to the National Assembly, the efficiency that I do not think has been seen in the EU countries that have told us that we will certainly not be able to do so by the end of June and will see how we will certainly succeed. As far as Kosovo is concerned, I can only tell you this – I will fight every day to find the best possible solution from the difficult situation for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will sign whatever it takes to sign that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are safe, have a secure future and have prosperity ahead of them. So, thank you for that. I'm expecting new questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33989	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33990	Here, I'd just like to add a few things, seeing as it's a complete or misunderstanding, a lack of will to learn, to read. Interpretations are never read. The original documents are being read. It's about to be learned at the first year of college, that when you have a document, you read the document and then you have your own interpretations, if you have them and if they're valid. The second possibility that exists is that you really don't understand the process, and that's legitimate and always needs to be asked. It is good that you ask, because what you do not understand is what is the essence of each report and why the report exists as a form for those countries that are in the process of European integration and which are candidates. So, the report is an instrument that determines the cross-section of the reforms. So no political evaluations are given. A political assessment was given only in one report and that was in the 2010 report, when it was such a sad and scandalous narrative describing Serbia's situation in the area of justice, in the area of corruption. It's an unrepeated narrative. I hope that never again such a narrative in the report, as it was in 2010-2011, and I suppose you remember who was at the time editing the reform process in Serbia, will never happen again. Parts of the economy at the time, which were attributed, which were also bad, which were attributed to the economic crisis, and we remember that some of yours, I think, convinced me, party colleagues that the economic crisis was actually going to produce amazing positive effects on the great Serbian economy at the time, only it was somehow unrecognized. At that time, a political assessment and recommendation was given, in the report, to another government that failed to start negotiations with the EU. This report, if I can call it a report that is positive, and I can call it, therefore, a total of speaking in the sense that the report measures progress in certain areas that are numbered from economic, political, regional co-operation, and also the normalisation of relations between Belgrade and Pristina is largely determined progress, somewhere smaller, somewhere larger, and that is a fact, and that is what we told Serbian citizens openly. So, and that's what the European Commission doesn't have to tell us either, so we know that we should and all Serbian citizens know that we need to work even more on judicial reform. You forgot to mention that not only has some progress been made, but that it is particularly commendable to reduce the number of leftover cases and executions and to set up measures to level court practice, which is what the citizens are most interested in, that they do not have classes of 10, 15 and 20 years, as it has, unfortunately, been happening to them. That's what citizens measure. Are constitutional changes necessary? Yes, they were, therefore, two rounds of debate, to be sent to an amendment to the Venice Commission, which is really a reference framework that can make recommendations on whether constitutional amendments are in line with existing world practice, good practice, above all, or best practice, and even then we will go to debate again in order to bring about the best solutions in the fully speculative and inclusive process. Let's not remind ourselves of the judicial reform of a few years ago that was so disastrously ruined. That's why we're cautious and that's why we might be late so we don't get into a situation where that kind of justice reform happens again. That is Serbia's biggest interest. So, is that going to be your argument, whether we're going to open a chapter for this more or less, I think it's important and, as a minister in charge, it's extremely important, but it's even more important that this area is arranged in a way that will really provide security for our citizens, to establish a rule of law, and I think we've done a lot. Every other interpretation is diabolical. We can go further into the comparative of previous reports with this report. They mentioned a legally binding agreement, so when you read the report, then read what the formulation itself contains, and what a policy person should know. The urgent achievement of a legally binding agreement, so it is not disputed, if one other legally binding agreement is previously fully implemented, and this is the Brussels Agreement, and if a community of Serb municipalities is established. Therefore, enter more width and understanding for what has been, as has progressed and where we are now, and now we are on a good path, and there is a lot of work ahead of us, and that is why citizens and citizens vote as voters, because they can recognize the result and give confidence in an even better future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33991	Minister Stefanovic wants to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33992	I suppose this speech by Mr. Aleksic could be true if he made it somewhere in early 2012. I agree on that period almost with all the grades. Some of them were a little bit harder than the ones you brought out, but for 2012, it's absolutely true, at best. There's one thing I'm worried about. I hope that wasn't your intention. It seems to me that by making certain views, the interpretation of the report advocated the abolition of the media in Serbia or at least of those media that are not at the will of the EU. So if the EU does not like how some media reports, they should be abolished, if I interpret it well. So either you put it as an important item in the European Commission's report. I would still like to wait for the EU to put an end to the tabloid media, so when they in their countries lift the tabloid media, then we stick to what they've done. Until then, I think we should stick to what they said that freedom of the media has no limit, and that means, as we always say to people from the EU when they come here -- you may not like what the media is saying, but that's freedom of mind and speech. You can't always like everything that's written. It can't be nice just what one likes and it's not nice that other people like it. It doesn't like each other, and it's democracy, so Serbia is a democratic state where there is freedom of opinion, you don't like one thing, I don't like the other, but we can read both you and I. It would be bad for the EU to dictate which newspapers they write nicely, so that we can hold you, and those newspapers that don't write well, just if they like the people, then we should stop them. I think we should leave it to the market and the television, and the newspaper. Who doesn't like something, changes the channel or doesn't buy a newspaper. He's right, it's democracy. It's not a democracy for any of the politicians to decide what's good in the paper. Politicians should not interfere with this, as politicians should not have, as the late Verica Barac said, an absolute and dominant role in the media spectrum and that their media influence in the marketing houses is making huge profits, achieving absolute influence without any freedom of the media. Dot. That's when he thinks of Dragan Gilas. The second thing, criminal groups, I urge you to ask Commissioner Avramopoulos, who is nevertheless the most invited to talk about Serbia's progress in Chapter 24, to ask the President of the European Commission, to ask Commissioner Han and all interior ministers, who come to the Republic of Serbia, or you can send them a letter there assessing co-operation in the fight against organised crime together with the Republic of Serbia and its investigative and police authorities in the past few years, assessing the results we have carried out in activities, in joint investigation teams with German, Austrian, Spanish, Belgian, Belgian, French police. After all, in the last few days you've had a chance to see two donations received by the MUP. One donation from the German police, the German criminal police, in gratitude for good co-operation and joint work on lighting, detecting and arresting organised criminal groups and confiscation 300kg of cocaine. Show me one country in the region, one that had and close to that result in drug seizures, in finding illegal laboratories, synthetics and others, and that number of operational information that led to the arrest of people in other countries. Secondly, we had a donation from the United States, thanks to the good co-operation we had with the ICTAP program, it's a programme of the United States Department of Justice, co-operation with the FBI and co-operation with other institutions that the MUP is working with here. The two large countries have shown how they feel about co-operation with us in the field of fighting organised crime and corruption. So why would these countries, on the one hand, think we're bad, and on the other hand reward us for co-operation and good work and say, yes, we want to improve your capacities and work greatly with you? After all, don't trust me, ask them, and if any of them tell you – disaster, nothing good, Serbia goes back, let's hear it. I didn't hear it from any man. On the contrary, I've heard excellent grades. Is there room for better? Of course. When compared to the time when drug dealers really ruled Serbia and invested drug-trafficking money in Serbia, this cannot be measured. You don't have any more serious organised groups today that the police can't reach in Serbia's territory, none at all. You don't have any more serious criminal who doesn't have to fear for himself if he's dealing with crimes. He's got to be scared. He's got to be scared. There's no man whose name can't be said, can't be brought in or his car can't be stopped. So, when I became a minister, it was often an objection of citizens, it was an observation – stop the southerners, fillers, do not store the jeeps and the Mercedes. Every car, Mercedes, BMW, Audi, jeep, darkened glass, not darkened glass stops and I personally told the cops and I tell them today – everyone is free and we are not interested in saying, like it used to be, do you know who I am or call myself, to see exactly who's going to call someone. It can't be done today. Furthermore, since 2000, in the previous year we had absolutely the smallest number of murders in Serbia, the smallest number of crimes committed by the murder, 76. In the period, for example, between 2000 and 2010, this ranged to 154, 158, 160 per year. So this is more than twice as good. It's not good when you have one murder a year. What we have to invest energy on in our society is domestic violence. That's the thing where we have to educate our population. It's not all in the hands of the state, but we have to work together on it. What's good is that today in Serbia, journalists don't kill each other, cops don't kill each other, people kill each other at the time of your government. Both, both, and third, killed because they had a different opinion. Worst of all, five, six, seven years ago, no one wanted to open an investigation. We're easy to solve, in less than a year. When you solve it in a year, and someone didn't want it in seven, it shows that it was possible, it just wasn't willful, it wasn't desire, because those people didn't belong on that side, they were on the other side. That is why I am glad that Serbia has made significant progress today both in the rule of law and in respect of all European norms that we have and in co-operation with world and European authorities to prosecute all organised criminal gangs. The results clearly show that Serbia is the first of all countries in the region in this type of score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33993	Thank you. Do you want to ask another question?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33994	Thank you. According to your usual mantra, you talked about what I didn't ask you and you mostly talked about some results that some people who don't live in Serbia should tell us. Therefore, I urge the citizens of Serbia to read this report so that they can assess for themselves what is true and what is a lie. Furthermore, I ask you again, Madam Prime Minister, in the beginning, not to skip the answer again, are you ready as prime minister to sign a legally binding agreement with Pristina that will define that Serbia and Kosovo will not block membership in international organisations, i.e. To give them a chair at the UN? The second question – have you met with representatives of the Transbury Lobby House in Belgrade, now that Levandovski has been here? Have you negotiated services, agreed on who pays for it, and what will Serbian citizens get in return? Furthermore, as far as interpretation is concerned, I, Madam Minister, have not interpreted here, I have already read what is on your site. So these are documents, or quotes from a document on the Ministry of European Integration website. As far as FATF is concerned, I thank Minister Stefanovic who was very correct here when we talked about police laws and who said we have a failure and that we should be corrected by June. You, Madam Prime Minister, said that the FATF report no longer reflects the real situation long before that assembly when we adopted and discussed these laws that we must pass to be removed from that blacklist. You know who we're on that blacklist with? You know, with North Korea, Ethiopia, Iraq, Iran, etc., the only country in Europe is Serbia, the only country. That's a fact. Furthermore, as far as the media is concerned, I will tell you that in 2018, Serbia turned back three of the last three years of 2026, 2017 and 2018 for 10 places in the Media Freedoms Report. Every year we go back 10 places. This is the data and this suggests that independent media are threatening to disappear, probably in Serbia, that Serbia will remain a black hole where citizens will only be placed what is in the interests of the ruling majority and implement the propaganda that is in the interest of the authorities. Fourthly, very important, and you just said it was a serious job to implement the reconstruction, yes, it is, but you gave up that reconstruction the moment the president said it didn't matter if it was going to be 15 days, a day or two months from now, we need to talk about the whole package, and this whole package also implies normalising relations and signing a legally binding agreement with Kosovo. Does this mean, meanwhile, that some ministers will self-initiately withdraw from the government that will sign the agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33995	Thank you. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33996	I forgot to answer this question that I said was most fascinating for those lobbyists. I don't know who these people are, I've never heard of these people in my life, I don't know what they're doing, I don't even know where you came from, I didn't know they were in Serbia, I don't know who they came to. This information that Vuk Jeremic has, which he sends via Twitter, which is information at the level of truth that Angela Merkel will not be seen with Alexander Vukic, so she invites him two days after that are fascinating to me. Really, let's do some real things. I don't understand, okay, this is the time of those post-truths, but you just dragged him into such a serious extremity with post-truths. So, to be clear and loud, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't know what that man's name is, I've heard that he's called like a Polish football player, and I don't know what he's doing, nor have I seen him, nor have I had time to see him, since only this week I've seen the Prime Minister of Belgium, Mr. Donald Tusk, with Mr. Hoyer, President of the European Investment Bank, last week with the Prime Minister of the province of Bedenvinterberg, Mr. Kretchman. So I don't have time to see those lobbyists you know about and who are so important to you that you follow them around the world where they're going. I don't care, people. We have nothing to do with them. I can guarantee you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not hire any lobbyists and that none of them are paid for either personal money or from the Government of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is one of the amazing post-truths. These are some of those things that, okay, you'll tell me – I'm angry, I don't know how to answer those things. I don't know who your lobbyist is. That's what I said. As far as Kosovo is concerned, why do you insist on me telling you what kind of agreement I'm going to sign? You made such a mistake with the International Court of Justice. What do you think we're going to do now as we negotiate a normalisation agreement, you insist on the Prime Minister telling you what kind of agreement I want to sign? Wait, where's diplomacy? How amazing that you can't understand that I am now telling you what kind of agreement I'm going to sign. I told everyone what the Government of the Republic of Serbia would do. That's not how you do it. That may have been the way it was done when we lost points at the International Court of Justice because diplomacy was so strategic. I want to make it clear to you because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I will not fear at any time, nor be afraid to sign whatever it takes to sign that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have full security, full security and full guarantee of further prosperity. I won't be afraid to do it myself. It's my responsibility. That's my commitment to this job. For reconstruction. Please don't play like that. I said the reconstruction stalled after a terrorist act in Kosovo, in Kosovo Mitrovica against our people and Mark Djuric as director of the KIM Office. The man was kidnapped, unfeelingly guided by the streets of Pristina. Things Pristina's biggest friends couldn't believe. It's a medieval behavior. At that moment with such a situation of security when the National Security Council meets you, it is normal for me, as Prime Minister, to discuss the reconstruction of the government. No, it's normal for me to need full national unity. Please don't play with that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33997	A comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33998	Thank you. To conclude, as far as the legally binding agreement is concerned, you said you'd sign it and I congratulate you on that and on you and your government. You'll be enrolled in history if you do something like that. Second, you didn't answer my question about lobbyists. I didn't ask you about Levandovski, but I asked for two other people, Mother Rubin and Jason Osborne, who were staying here in Belgrade. I asked a very precise question. Furthermore, as far as the International Court of Justice is concerned, what changed that. Is it possible that the amended resolution, because the UN Security Council may not have decided on it, has it affected your negotiation process in Brussels in the last six years because you implemented everything that was planned for the Serbian side by the Brussels Agreement, and now you are whining and crying that Albanians will not form a community of Serb municipalities and you are making any performances. This is proof of your incompetence in the negotiations to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. It's the beginning and end of every story and citizens need to know that. As for the results of this government, citizens will feel it best and feel it best in these six years, so let them assess themselves, but as things stand now, Madam Prime Minister, they run away with their heads regardless of this country. It's something that you have to deal with, not here with different spins, thesis swaps and all kinds of stories. You've been telling fairy tales for six years, and you've been in complete control of the media, so that citizens can tell what's true in this country and what's not true. So I call on you to work a little more on what this government stands for, which is European values in Serbia, European legislation, the rule of law, media freedom, freedom of expression, and to preserve the national interests of the Republic of Serbia that seem to be not going to succeed after you to keep on Kosovo, a legally binding agreement and the participation and membership of Kosovo in the UN. That is practically the essence of Kosovo's recognition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u33999	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to be true that human wickedness comes from impotence and evil intent. My question has been modified. I ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs if there is still a phenomenon that existed in Triestenik, that someone from the state should take 55 million dinars for the care of the elderly and that you can't find any old person who has been nursed and that later become a national MP? Also, the question for the government or the minister who should comment on the construction is this, here, goes, a question for the police minister – what will he do about the construction, wild construction and installation of the pipeline in Tristenik, which was built during the government in the local self-government of Mr. Aleksic? It was a wild construction by a company called "Bos", which also received gasification jobs. The Minister for Local Self-Government can answer that, are such phenomena now known? Let's go further, a question for the government, for the foreign minister, for the minister of police, refers to the following – is there any rope, and it is known that Serbia cannot fall because of pressure from the outside, if someone does not help it from within, is there any link between the external factors of the international community, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Gilas and Jankovic, is there any mutual link to the destruction of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? In this regard, a question for the finance minister and the government, what will they do about scandalous behaviour in financial terms of Vuk Jeremic, who apparently inherited an oil source in the village of Ježevica near Cačka, for the purposeless spending of funds while he was the foreign minister, unfortunately for us, where 70,000 euros were paid for one flight, where one overnight was paid $1,500, where the allowance per month was 25,000, where the state property was sold to the "Energoproject" and other companies abroad? What will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do, what will the government do, what will the Ministry of Defence do about it? Finally, a question for the police minister – are these mentioned gentlemen, who are organisers, in my opinion, protesting in Nis legally reporting public gatherings that are happening now in Nis, given that they cannot be treated as spontaneous, because they are involved by the leaders of the opposition, regardless of who I do not see led by them as leaders, but they are organizers and these demonstrations cannot be spontaneously gatherings?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34001	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34002	Dear People's MP, I just want to let you know that everything will certainly be questioned and we certainly have ministers who are competent and brave enough to question such things, to do so. I would just like to take this moment to congratulate Milica Nikolic, who won the bronze at the European championship in Israel in judo. This is the first women's judo medal after 15 years, so it's a big success. Well done, really. Speaking of which, here's one more thing why, as one respected MP said, we'll be enrolled in history. I am proud that we will be enrolled in history as one of the next governments in the series, in continuity with the previous government, which in just three years has pulled the country from the brink of collapse, bankruptcy to the budget surplus and serious household registers, a country that has become the worst country in three years to issue building permits, for example. One of the first ten countries to issue construction permits, the world champion for attracting foreign investment. So, truth be told, we'll be recorded in history. There's just one more thing I need to tell you, the citizens will judge for themselves. How many times do you want the citizens to evaluate themselves? In 2014, the citizens assessed themselves, so in 2016 the citizens assessed themselves, and in 2017 they evaluated themselves, so in 2018 the citizens themselves assessed and you still do not understand. Citizens have assessed both prices and every time, each year there is growing faith in both the SNS and the ruling coalition. It should be said that the citizens themselves assessed your effect, estimated by the citizens of Belgrade, for example, who, I think, is the centre of these parties' strength, where the coalition gathered about five parties of the respected MP won magnificent 2,24% or 18,000 votes. The citizens have estimated it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34003	Thank you. You want to ask another question, Mr. Risticevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34004	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my second question concerns agriculture. There goes a man who wanted to be a minister of agriculture in the SNS government, so since he wasn't, we're not doing it right now. So they think we don't solve the problems they left fast enough. In this regard, before agriculture, I would like to be answered by the ministers, the competent ministers and the Prime Minister what will be done to sanction the behaviour of Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic regarding the resolution that has been replaced, and in the UN we got instead of UNMIK Eulex? Also, what will be done on the issue of the International Court of Justice, which I think has been deliberately set up so that Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence gets some legitimacy, and what will it do about the activities of Vuk Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic, who, according to the "Vikiliks", and our services claim to be true, at the US Embassy, have asked Albanians not to declare Kosovo's independence before Boris Tadic is elected president? That is what happened, in 2008, Boris Tadic, the DS candidate, took an oath on February 15th, and on February 17th, Albanians self-proclaimed illegal independence. With that in mind, they didn't even frown. Will the government and the authorities sanction it once? That's also a question for the foreign minister. As far as agriculture is concerned, my question concerns, and above all I am grateful that the government, compared to 2006, when 136m euros of incentives were allocated, now stands out 150m more or in 2011, when the DS allocated 188m euros, is now out from 281m to 309m. I am grateful for that, but I am asking the prime minister, given that there is a surplus in the budget, is it possible to provide additional five billion in budget rebalancing, which would primarily encourage production and specialize in small agricultural holdings, and with this in terms of association and processing industry? I think that the Minister of Agriculture can answer that question, because I believe that small agricultural holdings only have a perspective if they are joined, if we specialize in vegetable and fruit production and if we allow them to deal with processing and in a certain way, the EU also believes that this type of mixed land and demographics plays an important role and represents a new hope for employment in Europe, as well as in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34005	Thank you. The word has a minister, Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34006	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear People's MPs, as far as this particular issue is concerned about agriculture and the resources that may be necessary for further improvement of the state of Serbian agriculture, I would first of all like to express my gratitude to the Committee on Agriculture of the Serbian Assembly on an initiative it submitted several weeks ago, and it is related to the subsidies that we give, to the cattle industry, which we give to the sheep growing, which we give to goats. We accepted this initiative and amended the rules accordingly, and I am therefore grateful to all the Members who participate in the Committee's work, because I think it is very important that we do as much and as best as we can for Serbian agriculture in our communication. Dear Mr Risticevic, I am grateful because, very rarely in this House, there is a story of how many subsidies were seven, eight years ago, as we had seven, eight years ago in the Serbian agrarian, what is the situation today. It almost went undetected, that for the previous five, six years almost doubled the amount of subsidies, which is the fact. And those are numbers, nobody can move it, remove it in any other way to read it, because I see here it's like we're reading in some different ways and we've been learning some other native languages in schools. But what to do. You could talk to someone for days, years, you'd never explain it to him, because there's no will, no desire, and maybe no ability to understand. As for what trends are in the Serbian agrarian and why the need for further isolation, I must say that compared to 2016, in 2017 we had an increase in the agricultural budget, as well as in 2018, and in 2017 we had almost 13.7% increase in the agricultural budget. But, more and more demands, more and more people applying for incentive funds. There are more and more people who are going into the system and want to mother their throats and want to participate in a system that allows you to participate in the quality of the market. It is very important to pay attention to this processing industry that was mentioned earlier. I'll let you know one more time today, and I assume you've seen it. One of the symbols of the Serbian meat industry, the Yugoslav meat industry "Srem" Shid, which has the largest spending capacity in the former Yugoslavia, was sold today, or a signed agreement was signed yesterday, it was announced today. What is very important, Serbian businessmen, Serbian processors have bought this complex, and even more importantly, and very often people get it off their minds, that based on the Agreement between Serbia and Turkey on duty-free beef exports, there is a greater demand for this commodity, that we have buyers on the other side for 5,000 tonnes of beef, precisely for that reason, because we have this demand. As a result, this investment occurred and in the next month and a half, two beings in full function. I want to say one more thing that wasn't mentioned earlier, and it's in the context of the processing industry. You, when you want to export the goods to anyone, are there different standards for the EU, the Eurasian Union, Turkey, some third, fourth. Not everyone today has the same standards they want to take. For example, when it comes to Turkey, only four entities in Serbia have met the conditions for exporting meat from Serbia to Turkey. And why is that? We've had a complete devastation for the last 20, 30 years, for various reasons. Some of the reasons were sanctions, much more privatisation and the total chaos that arose there. Especially in the processing industry. You can almost count on the fingers of one hand, except for the mill-bought industry, which the successful privatisations were in the food industry. We need that momentum, because it's the platform everyone's getting on. This is where all the farms come in. You can produce on the unit as much as you want, as many results as you want, if you don't have a market and you don't have a food industry, you don't have anyone to sell it to after you choke yourself with the price. Four entities were granted that permission by Turkish authorities and by our authorities. Two are located in the Raška area, one is in Valjevo, one is in Paracino, but what is the catch? All 100 cattle a day were able to be processed and delivered to that market, and now at such a pace, it's hard to make this 5,000-ton quota work. With this capacity that today, which will slaughter four times more than in all of Serbia, we may reach those 5,000. If God gives the 7th of May when we have President Vukic talks in Turkey, that quota and we increase, we are working on how much more we would have. And what's good is we have interested new investors here. Go back to the little farmers now. Why is it important in the year that is in progress and in the years ahead of us to further separate for agriculture and the food industry? Because that's exactly the quality. We record surpluses with every country in the environment. We dominate the quality of food, although very often justified, sometimes not, is under glass, under the question of the quality of the Serbian food industry, but if you have surplus, if this surplus is 90 to 10, compared to the other side are these relationships, then imagine what the potentials are. And not only here, when it comes to the countries of CEFT, but, look, we, yesterday, few people know, have been certified for beef and from China, for three of our processors. We'll finish the whole story with the Emirates. We care about markets that pay well, not markets that can't at prices be the same or similar to us, because then there's no competition, then we have nothing to offer. These markets that are richly paid are actually the markets in the future that we're going to go to. As for Malia, Mr Risticevic is absolutely right when he says they must diversify their agricultural production and have to turn to fruit and vegetables. For this reason, more money is needed to invest in agricultural infrastructure, in irigation systems, in field electrification. Very often they ask the question – what is electrification of the field, we are not going to bring the bandits into the fields. Yeah, we're just gonna bring them there, because that's how we fuck up the production on site, the irrigation system doesn't start diesel fuel like a power plant, it's electricity that's five times cheaper per unit of surface. Maybe it looks funny to someone, maybe all this stuff I'm saying looks funny, don't forget we have 650,000 agricultural holdings. Of which, 370,000 owners living exclusively from agriculture. How many households are there? Every year, and that's good, there's an increase in the number of applications for the state's measures, and that's because these measures are good. When you give 50% to buy a irrigation system, 50% to protect networks, 50% to get fruit materials, 50% to get tractors, 50% to get machinery, more and more money is needed. I'm grateful for the previous support we've had, regarding financial resources, but we need to be aware, this is going to be more and more, and demand and necessary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34007	Commentary, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34008	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am pleased with the answer. Food production and drinking water production are, in my opinion, the most important business, more important than diamond production, gold etc. When the water is gone, the food, then you'll see that you can't live on gold or diamonds. With that in mind, I am pleased with the answer, but since our subsidies are very low compared to Europe, I must say that incentives are not only incentives for farmers. Therefore, consumers benefit from that. On the other hand, the most important benefit is the processors, because they get cheaper raw materials and they can be competitive on our and the surrounding markets. So it's not keeping farmers to themselves, because modern agriculture without incentives can't stay. So I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture, given that we have the extra funds, can we provide these five billion extras from budget rebalances, if it is, because agriculture, if we focus on agriculture, will return that amount multiple times each year. These unfortunate men who wanted to be agriculture ministers, so they ran away, I call for a style, because the style is almost half a victory, and I invite them to let go of the dead work and the devil's work, because the devils and the devils are to be driven away from our threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34009	Thank you. The question is asked by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34010	Thank you. I also have to say that I don't forget in the meantime to commend the Prime Minister. I did last time, and I think it's up to us from the opposition to say, I said come more often, it's no big deal, nobody bites, and she listened, she promised and came. So, that's something to give the confession and it's not nice that we ignore it now just because we're the opposition, and let's say, collaterally, both the President and the Head of the Assembly, because this leadership didn't resort to some maneuvers that used to resort to, to avoid that last Thursday, so, yes, the Government as it will, but it can't, because there's no assembly meeting. This maneuver was used by previous governments. When I say the previous governments, I mean the governments of the SNS and those before the SNS. So it's just something that needs to be determined. We're not going to solve all possible problems now, but we're going to get through something a little bit, there's going to be some arguments about and against. So it's certainly commendable. What I don't know is whether it's commendable, but a little bit of a surprise, it's that, I must admit, Mrs. Brnabic, that I would like to live in a country that looks like you and your colleagues have described it here. It really looks like one country, with those data and quotes, prosperity, stability, order, I say, it really looks almost ideal. I think we'd all like Serbia to really look that way. My impression is that Serbia doesn't look like it, the fact, there's no room for all that detail to be discussed now, point by point of discussion. But in general, I don't think that's how citizens perceive it. As for the fact that the citizens themselves have assessed, you have mentioned and called, for a reason, of course, on the election results that give for the right of your grades and estimates, I would say that I would agree with that, with just a little bit, but that is that the conditions that exist in these elections are also fair, democratic and even, then I would really take off my hat and say, yes, you are right. This way I have the right to some sort of reserve and doubt about it and the fascination of those results. But what's the problem and what we ended our last dialogue, a month ago here, you're almost angry, but offended, not to me, but generally, you said -- so as you can imagine, it was my last finding, how you might think someone would be so stupid, crazy, or so you used an expression to form a so-called. Serb municipalities' communities accept as a gift and then justify signing a legally binding agreement, which would include possibly a chair in the UN. So, with indignity, you refused the very idea that, I repeat and emphasize for the citizens, so that at some point this PSO, which has been waving at us and promising us, would be here for six years, and that is not to be formed, with great difficulty and drag, above all, on the Albanian side, but I would also say, with insufficient insistence of Serbia, that this PSO is ultimately offered as some kind of consolation prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34011	Thank you. The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34012	I haven't heard a clear question, but I'll certainly give you an answer to the general comment. Thank you, in any case, for noticing that we are coming to the Assembly and by giving it up, it seems to me, completely sincere respect for the Parliament as a Government and for answering all questions and we will continue as Government with it and we will come every last Thursday of the month. When you say you would like to live in the country I'm talking about with my team, I have a fantastic news for you – you live in that country, so that your wish is fulfilled. All reforms require time and all results require time. I think we'll at least agree that in 2012, the country was devastated. I think if unemployment is 26% or between 24% and 26%, that means the country is devastated. I think we'll agree that after the reform was tried, the judiciary was devastated. I think it's very, very difficult, from where we were three months from bankruptcy, to hire people, to raise wages, to have a standard, to invest in health care, in public services, in roads. When you don't even have Corridor 10, you don't have Corridor 11, you don't know how to get from Nis to Užice, I mean, these things take time. I think that by every objective parameter, but still, not us in Serbia, some partner from the EU, from the World Bank, the World Economic Forum, credit agencies, rating agencies, which twice in two years increase Serbia's credit rating, obviously the situation in Serbia is much better. You can't say that if unemployment is between 12 and 13% today, which is still a disaster, it's worse than 24%, but it's still a very difficult situation, a situation where, of course, citizens are very difficult to live in. You can't have good wages when you've had an unemployment rate of 26%. So you just have to bring in the companies or support small and medium-sized enterprises to do these jobs, and then go into the second round, to create competition, to increase wages by the market. You can't say – there'll be a minimum salary of 180 dinars per hour. You can, but no one will have to pay that salary. It's the only market that can raise wages, and that takes time. You can't say - citizens don't notice. If you have the first clinical centre in Serbia's history completed, 52m euros have been invested in one of the best clinical centres in Southeast Europe safely, then citizens today, who unfortunately have to be treated at that clinical center, certainly notice. Yesterday we opened a tender for contractors for Nis Science and Technology Park. Before that, we opened the Startap Center in Nis in October. That's what your students notice. Is it better? Well, it must be much, much better, but my predecessor's government has just made the country's financial recovery. They barely got to deal with new jobs, because it worked, the country had to be pulled out of bankruptcy. This government has just inherited a healthy budget, a healthy basis for faster growth, and we now have to go to that faster growth. So, reforms require time, results are seen, but I'm sure they'll be seen year by year. After all, we can talk about election conditions. I disagree with you anyway, because we live in the 21st century, where you can't completely control the public word, which you all know, primarily through social networks, you're active on Twitter and on other social networks, you can't control it today, it's the 21st century. The election results show exactly what citizens think and show exactly what citizens feel, whether they feel better or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34013	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34014	Of course, at least half of Serbian citizens don't use social networks, they don't inform themselves online, and of course it's just a voting base and a gro of your party's voting base, or the ruling party you're proud of. But let's leave it now, that's a fact. We can get mad at that. There's no reason to dispute the basic facts. If only those from social networks voted, the results would be different, but we better expand our opportunities and free the media that all citizens have timely and correct information as much as possible. Also, boasting about the results of reducing unemployment affects the fact that many have left the country young, working, educated, and thus, unfortunately, reduces the unemployment rate to the greatest extent. But let's leave it. I would take the chance that Mr. Ivica Dacic, foreign minister, would also like to offer a commendation and a serious grudge, a question and a dilemma to him. You, too, Mrs. Brnabic, have remained in my debt for a legally binding agreement and my doubts or dilemma whether the Serb municipality community will be offered as a comforting reward for accepting legally binding agreements. So, something concerning the previous agreement and the obligations of the Albanian side of the previous agreement, which is not respected, which is naively signed, I would say stupidly signed, lightly signed, this Brussels Agreement, and then that point, that item, that famous PSO is offered and said -- here, you have now received the community of Serb municipalities, and then accept, the minority, the Kosovo chair in the UN. My question for Mr Dacic also concerns the first commendation, this measure reciprocated to the Croatian minister, there is little praise to the government, the defence minister, who has been declared a non grata person or not desirable in Serbia. It is an exceptional measure for what Croatia has done with Minister Vulin. I don't approve of procedures, statements, most of the proceedings of Minister Vulin's statements, but I think the government that holds onto it must either throw out, or thank Mr. Vulin for being a member of the government or do what she did. So it's just a normal process to resort to. But I would like that kind of determination shown now towards the Croatian side, which I welcome, where it is applied, to say when preparing for this Sofia summit, the EU and the Western Balkans, is a bit of an unpleasant situation in which Spain and Marijano Rahoj, much more defends Serbia's position on Kosovo than the Serbian government, or at least it's my impression, and I would like you to explain to me in part both the prime minister and the foreign minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34015	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34016	I'll tell you again that I completely disagree with you that Serbian citizens don't use social networks, because I think it's simply by any statistics it's not like that. Serbia, if something is, and then, that's what I have to commend before 2012, then it's pretty well connected. The mobile phone signal in Serbia is over 90% of the territory covering, shipband or optical cables on average over 60%, which makes us very, very good in Europe. On average in Serbia, two mobile phones go to one citizen, so I would disagree with you. I think it's a completely flat-rate assessment and that Serbian citizens are checking and they are active on social networks and reading the news via mobile phones, and such news and web sites can't be controlled, so neither can this almighty government of the Republic of Serbia, which controls all the media in Serbia. Yesterday I saw a national paper that by nothing less than 10 times increased the number of citizens present in Nis to so-called. The demonstrations, against President Vukic. There were not 1,000 of them, the daily "Today" said 10,000. I don't know how a better example is that freedom of the media, absolute and freedom and creativity of the media in Serbia exist just like that. I'm proud of it, I think Serbia is a good country and a better country to live for. In the Brussels Agreement, we had the way to a serious debate, I am standing by, I have, I said, and then, a perfectly logical indication that the Brussels Agreement is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and that some of the previous agreements signed by the previous governments, i.e. before 2013, did not. Because if we have agreements that have been signed and that Pristina has been better implemented, you will not tell me that these agreements were in Serbia's interest. Yes, if you have an agreement that is in Serbia's interest, then Pristina has been running away for five years to implement it. This is the best indication that the Brussels Agreement is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, such as the agreement on integrated transition management is not. Which is why we have strangers today, without a problem they can call it a border. It was signed by Borko Stefanovic, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34017	The word is made by Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34018	Let me just say one thing, Mr. Vukadinovic, sometimes it seems to me that it underestimates the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, I think that this is a kind of discrimination or attempt to discriminate on those who use the Internet or do not use it and try to make one form of predictable behaviour and those who do not use the Internet or who are less informatively written are now the SNS electoral body, and those others who are more written are the electoral body of these others. There are now several logical questions that will confirm that this is not the case. Let's take the presidential elections in 2017, in the territory of the city of Belgrade and the Belgrade elections held in 2018, where the same parties in the collection lost, so Jeremic – Jankovic – Đilas lost a third of their electoral body. So these people, these same people realized that it wasn't an option that brought them something good. You can't simplify the situation. After all, you had research that you published, which was wrong by 70%, 80% from individual results. What's the problem? I saw that in a certain circle of people, I said that to people who think like me when they had that kind of thinking. You can't lock yourself in a shell of like-minded people, because that's how you'll always get the wrong perception. You will have the wrong perception of Serbia and what people in Serbia think. After all, people in Serbia, you have a continuous increase, I really think it is a credit, that credit is a huge effort invested by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS and the government of Serbia and the people fighting. That's my opinion. But the result that is achieved every year that you have a continuous increase and an absolute number of votes and percentages shows that citizens of Serbia and how well they understand what options for them are doing something, which are options that don't work for them. That kind of thing, it's, like people say, I've been listening to it, and unfortunately here in parliament, well, it's no good, it was great when it wasn't a factory it was great, but now we're not good because they're employed at the factory, because they don't have enough pay in the factory. But they were great when they didn't get paid at all. Well, that was their best time. So none of those people who were hungry, who didn't have a job, and the job didn't think they were better off when they were hungry, they think they're better off now. Do they think they're good enough? That depends now on a thousand factors. Of course it's not ideal, I just want to tell you, my parents belong to a generation of people over 60, very actively serving social networks and a large number, and they're not like that anymore, those pensioners who didn't have access to those kinds of networks. They'll be retired soon, in a year, two days. So they're people who have enough information literacy and they're very good at estimating what's in their favor, but not just them. After all, it is our job to address citizens in different ways. People see, they have all the means of information available in different ways. After all, they see what's going on in their midst. When they see that in their midst nothing new park, nothing new school, there's a new kindergarten, there's a new factory opening up, and that's not before, it's going a mile, and it hasn't happened before, and none of these people are going to say, this is worse now than it was then. People will recognize that's better. Can you do better? Of course he can, but I'm just about to tell you, it's too dangerous to share people like that. There's no black white situation, there's no situation where you can say, they're like this, they're like that. People judge every day. They change their will, change their way of thinking. Those who supported one today support another tomorrow. That's why you need people, the results to fight for them every day. That's all I wanted to say. So, I'm sure you'll see it in the next period when the people have a chance to make out again what they think, that where they've been working, where the results were and where the state, or those who represent them, is going to be right behind them, that even where they're running, they're going to have the support of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34019	The word is Hansel Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34020	I'm told by those who are watching TV ratings that we are currently very little watching, so I'd like to raise the ratings. Accordingly, let me just specify a few data since Mr. Alexic came out, but while he was speaking, I ordered that all contracts be found by the Serbian Government, or the Foreign Ministry ever rule with some lobbyists and lobbyists. So, as far as we have data, the Serbian government signed an agreement on 16 April 2008 with "A group of 30 strategic points", signed by Mirko Stefanovic, Secretary General of the Foreign Ministry, $42,000 a month. Also, on 5 August 2011, then Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic signed a lobbying contract with the "Podesta Group" for $100,000 a month. Mirko Stefanovic was the secretary general. So, based on the government's decision. I'm talking about official contracts that have been signed. This first agency has been paid a million and 469 thousand and 800 dollars, and the Podesta Group has been paid $90,000. Also, meanwhile, there are American papers dealing with lobbying, as it is legal and legally regulated activity there, data that the Serbian government paid $320, $300,000 in 2007, $300,000 in 2008 and $120,000 to the Barbur Grifit and Rogers Agency, which we do not have a contract for, and it says that the Serbian government paid for bilateral relations with the United States. You know what, I think it's extremely inappropriate for these types of questions to be asked today by those who have signed these contracts in the past. And that's the answer to everything they asked if anyone had met or not met with some lobbying firms. Let me tell you one thing. In America, 173 or 174 countries have lobbyist contracts with American companies. Is that something someone needs to attack for something right now? First of all, he wasn't signed, he wasn't met, he wasn't made any arrangements. What did you say? (Goran Bogdanovic: I wonder if you were in government then? I wasn't in the government then. I'm sorry, in 2008, you were in government, Kostunica and you in 2008. So don't move on me now. After all, let me tell you, what I was saying, I'm just asking the question, "Podesta group" was, at the same time she signed a contract with the Serbian government, in a few months she signed the same contract with Kosovo. Wait, is it normal for him to work for both Serbia and Pristina and Albania at the same time? It is such a conflict of interest and conflict and to tell you the truth, I don't know what they did for Serbia's interests. All those to whom we have given this money, because in just a few years 84 or 85 countries have recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Give me this much money, 50 countries will withdraw Kosovo's recognition. Do you agree? Okay. Apropo, that's so much apropo of these lobbyings. Let me get back to you seriously to say something about it. I think it's our country, that it's a state, I think we should really have some consensus about what we need as a state. I'm not even talking about whether someone is in power or opposition, it's obvious that the modern world works that way and that you only have to make everything that's going on transparent and that we need to lobby for our interests where decisions are made. Listen, we have a situation that, for example, Kosovo is opening embassies in many countries, and we should close the embassy in the enthusiasm of some demagogue statements. We don't go to some conferences because it's expensive, we need to define what we want. As far as the Foreign Ministry is concerned, I'm sure the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, with whom we are all working together in agreement, we have a clear goal and plan, no membership in the UN comes to mind. Therefore, there is no agreement or political trade on this. It's impossible for someone to get a seat at the UN, because what else do we have left after that? Wait, that's the basic thing no state will allow. You have seen many come to our country and talk about it, have friendly statements, love us, etc., and then send protest notes to many countries that have withdrawn Kosovo's recognition, threaten to abolish Security Council sessions on Kosovo, transfer them to closed consultations, etc. We must take care of our interests. What legally binding agreement will define the UN or define Kosovo's independence? I don't think there's really any dilemma about it. There's nothing to surround us here. This Serbian government, this Serbian president, this ruling coalition will never recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. That means, legally binding, those who are lawyers know, I'm not a lawyer, but at least that much I know that there isn't, if it's a deal, it's legally binding. What is this legally non-binding agreement? So we insist on applying the Brussels Agreement. You heard Blerim Shala speak yesterday, who otherwise attended the signing of the Brussels Agreement and of Shala and Hoxhaj speak of the Serb municipalities community being formed after Kosovo's admission to the UN or after a legally binding agreement on normalisation of Serbia's relations and as they say in Kosovo, we call it Belgrade and Pristina. It's not only not agreed, it's another open avoidance of meeting their obligations. So does the EU react to that? He's obviously not responding. The head of the EU mission in Pristina has exited its mandate. Yesterday, she spoke of Kosovo as an equal participant in the Western Balkans Six initiative, which we also said last night at a meeting and President Vukic and was also a prime minister, was Jadranka Joksimovic and Donald Tusk. We also said that the EU must react to these statements heard from Kosovo. What does that mean now? Now it's not binding what we signed five years ago, waiting now, looking for some new excuses. With that in mind, we are aware of the situation and the international conditions we are in, but I'm sure this is not a topic for political trade. This is not a topic for political trade whether we will enter the EU faster or later for a year or two or three. I don't hesitate to say it openly. The European Union, the question is how long it will exist, and Serbia will probably exist forever and we need to take care of our state and national interests, so we have no dilemmas here. As far as Croatia is concerned, we have brought a reciprocal measure. They say they will invite their ambassador to consult. All right, we'll follow the reciprocal. Therefore, they say -- this is not about Vulin, this is about an act that threatens our good neighbourly relations, which cannot possibly be interpreted as an act of goodwill, but is an act of humiliation for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the Republic of Serbia. We will surely answer, and we have answered in the same measure. When someone says reciprocally, it means you answer in the same way. We are interested in normalising relations, but normalising relationships does not mean that we should not tell the truth about the fate of our people in Croatia during World War II, about the fate of our people in the 1990s and should not, of course, accept false accusations that come from their side that Serbia has committed some aggression. After all, the International Court of Justice in The Hague refused. The only aggression one has committed in Serbian-Croatian relations in history was the aggression of Croatia, namely the Independent State of Croatia to Belgrade, Novi Sad and Sapca. We don't really have any dilemmas here. I don't know if it exists, I asked how much time is limited, but since my buddy Palma is next in line, I'll finish as soon as possible. We have no dilemmas about this, we will soon have a Committee on Foreign Affairs on the report on work and we will continue with what is most annoying to them, which is the withdrawal of Kosovo's recognition. Listen, don't fall for their tricks. You know, when someone recognizes Kosovo, it's a big and respectable country. When Barbados does it, then it's a big country, and when he withdraws his confession to Suriname or withdraws his recognition to Burundi or Guinea-Bissau, and these are some of the minor countries there. Each of these countries has the same voice in the UN General Assembly. Therefore, I call on all of you MPs from all political parties and all ministers to turn more to these countries, because these are our friends whose votes will depend on the fate of our country as a whole, and therefore Kosovo and Metohija. We're ready to work together with everyone. Let's show our patriotism that we are working against the recognition of Kosovo and the withdrawal of recognition in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34022	Like I said, it sounds nice, although most of this time Mr. Dacic was actually responding to fellow Alexic, not to me, but anyway. I agree on a lot of things, and I think that we should consider supporting the government's initiative as MPs, or that the prime minister starts to approve in the rebalancing of additional funds to the foreign ministry and to Mr Ivica Dacic that he, as he said, provides fifty dollars of recognition for a million dollars, or withdraws fifty recognitions of Kosovo's independence. It doesn't seem like it, but I wish it could work that way. As far as lobbying is concerned, I'm not against it, I just wish it was just transparent. So, of course it should lobby, I'd just like to see what, when the examples have already been cited, was a dilemma of what some of the agencies have done for Serbia with contracted contracts for those previous authorities, what, for example, the merits of Tony Blair, say, his Delivery Unit, who had some kind of cloudy arrangement, I don't know from whom and how paid, with this authority, means after 2012, and we all know who Tony Blair is, so, not that he didn't bring anything good, but he brought nothing but bad and Serbia and many countries and peoples around the world. As for what Mr. Stefanovic said, I think someone deceived him as well as his boss, or president, when it came to those data and results and the Belgrade elections and the results of our research, of course it wasn't, as someone deceived him in Nis, so when he read it, he saw that it was a bit nebulous, two and a half billion euros that were invested, allegedly, in Nis, and then he said - who wrote it to me? As for the results of our research, he was also deceived. But as for the Belgrade elections, when you add up the results of the opposition, you will see that they are exactly the same in the hair, the percentage is exactly the same as in the presidential elections, and the fact that they weren't smart enough to listen to me, so that they come out together to these city elections, this opposition, that's their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34023	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34024	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, above all to apologize to Minister Dacic for what I am now saying, rather than the MP of Mr Palma. I'd like to go back to my question. These days, it seems to me that the burning issue of the series prepared by the press "Insider" is an analysis of the strategic partnership between the national airline Er Serbia, i.e. former JAT, and Etyhad, companies from the United Arab Emirates. The co-operation dates back to the time when Mr Mladjan Dinkic, i.e. until JAT has been rebranded to "Er Serbia". I will remind Serbian citizens that Mr Dinkic has started negotiations between JAT and Etihad. It was succeeded by the general public then by Mr Siniša Mali, who in 2013, was the adviser of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, just now in the government of the recently mentioned Mr Ivica Dacic. An unofficial co-operation agreement was signed on July 31st 2013, while the signing ceremony marked on August 1st. The new "Etihad" executives immediately took over the management of our national company, until March 2014, when the strategic co-operation agreement came into force, although at least on paper they were minority strategic partners. Even in the draft, it was seen that Serbia would be in an independent position. We have committed to investing 100m euros at the time, and that Etihad will only invest 40m, in the form of loans. To this day, the public is not represented by exactly what the authorized representatives in front of Serbian citizens have signed and to what they have committed us to, with what is more than obvious today that only the Serbian citizens have been aware of. For the past five years, Serbia has invested several times as much in a grant joint venture as in different ways, from payment of debts to investment, while Etihad gave the joint venture a loan of about $100m. Unlike Serbia's grants, Etyhadu's interest loan must be returned. I believe you've all seen a great analysis of Insider. Given that the most responsible for such a criminal agreement refused to speak or to provide the necessary information and documentation, rudely violating the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning, I ask you, the Honored Prime Minister, how will the state address this not such a small problem? Meanwhile, the "Nikola Tesla" airport's concession also took place. You don't know anything about this contract. What we're suggesting is that because of this contract, the state decided to take over a local airport, which, without undue interference, operates perfectly and makes a profit. Isn't the message clear? Even under these circumstances in Serbia, which is only beautifully painted, and is absolutely devastated, it is evident that from some business states simply have to withdraw.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34025	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34026	Thank you. First, as far as I know, I think the contract with Etyhad was published on the government website. Here, check it out, then let me know. As for "Er Serbia", I think the government did a good job, because it didn't let JAT just fail, that all these people are out of a job, and that the debts are definitely left and that when the company goes bankrupt, as a large number of companies went bankrupt, then to cover what they can from the bankruptcy, and this remains for the workers to run out of anything. So, I think it's better to make at all times, especially because this is specific, and "Er Serbia" is not just a national company. It's a company that promotes Serbia worldwide. It is also a company that has a very big impact on the "Nikola Tesla" international airport. Without "Er Serbia", the international airport "Nikola Tesla" could not become tough. Without it, we could not have had 2017, where the international airport had for the first time in its history more than five million passengers, slightly more than five million and 300 thousand passengers. It's impossible without "Er Serbia". So, "Er Serbia" can't only be seen as "Er Serbia", but to view it as "Er Serbia" and only as "Er Serbia" it's better that you save what could have been saved from JAT and made your national air carrier. I understand, though, when it was the story of "Smederevo Irons", there was always criticism of shutting down "The Irons," end it, don't give money, 5,000 people, what to do, it's such an economy, a neoliberal concept, what to do. So, no "Smederevo Iron" was saved as well. In that same sense, I think that "Er Serbia" was a good deal for the Republic of Serbia. Unlike the previous governments and contracts that were completely under the guise, we do not have, and the previous government did not have that principle, so when you tell me about the contract with the "Vansi", the concession agreement, it has since been published on the site in a form in which it can be published at this time on the website of the Ministry of Finance, I mean the Commission for Public-private Partnerships. So all the basic elements of the contract have been published. After, as I said last month, last month when I was in the Assembly, after the financial closure, financial close, the financial signing of the contract with "Vansi" will be published, but at this point, fully in accordance with the law, the most important elements of the contract are published on the Ministry of Finance's website in the proper form. Konstantin Veli Airport has nothing to do with the concession contract for Nikola Tesla International Airport. Konstantin Veli Airport is the second legal person and is not mentioned in any way, nor covered by the concession agreement with the "Nikola Tesla" International Airport. Again, we come to an economical complete illogicality that the state that develops its international airport in Belgrade, has the best results in its history and develops it to make a contract worth a little more about a billion and 500m euros with one of the strongest airport management companies, the French "Vansi", in a fully open international procedure that no one has filed an appeal involving the largest international financial institutions... So, let's do such a good job, an important job, leave the airport for a billion and 500m euros to manage one of the best international companies, and say that now as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we can also invest more in Constantin Great International Airport in Nis, because we can, because this job has ended, and before that, the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested much more money in Constantin the Great, than the local self-government, because local self-government had no capacity, so in 2014, Mr. Perisic, then the mayor of Nis, asked the Ministry of Construction, as a real ministry, that the government of the Republic of Serbia will take over the management and financing of Constantin Great Airport because the city of Nis can't handle it. So we are now taking it upon ourselves to further invest in developing it as we have developed the "Nikola Tesla" International Airport. There's a problem. So it's economically incomprehensible to me. I don't know what can happen, no one will take Constantine the Great and transfer it to Belgrade. So, everything from investment that can be invested in Nis stays in Nis for the benefit of the citizens of Nis. I don't see, and I don't know how to interpret any more of these completely economically pointless criticisms at the expense of this job. So it's quite clear. You have a concession at Nikola Tesla International Airport, you have the means to invest even more in Nis and Constantin the Great. Benifit is for both citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Nis and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34027	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Tatjana Macura, an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34028	I would really like you, Prime Minister, to explain to me that since you come from a private sector, you would explain that a national company has agreed to rent Airbus planes. At that point, she signed a contract with Etyhad and rented their planes, paid at multiple prices for the rental of planes, but also for the crew's training, maintenance of the aircraft itself. It's something that, and I come from the private sector, so common sense tells us that you don't agree to such things. I'm interested in what decision, who was the leader of that decision that this was okay, and only business is further, to say, the financial injections improved by the fact that the state of Serbia, on several occasions, spent large amounts of money on "Er Serbia", so we only have some of the sums that are really high, which is $17.5 million, $22 million. So these are not small investments by the Serbian state in the national management company, it turns out to be a foreigner.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34029	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34030	There are a few things to consider when observing this whole situation. First of all, let's get back to what JAT was like. A very successful company that bought the last plane in 1986, "boing". So before that, they were bought significantly older. Those planes completely ran out of resources. So we had the opportunity to lose those slots that we had in fact abroad, because we wouldn't have anything to fly. The company was in debt, so the government of the Republic of Serbia covered 30m to 50m euros each year, much more than these figures you said. Every year, not one year, year after year, you cover the debts of a company that, not to make progress, but remains old planes, loses its ability and reputation in the world, and each year makes losses of 50 million. What would happen? What would have happened with companies that have been bankrupt since 2000, which is that it would have been converted into public debt, would have taken over again the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so from the Serbian budget, it would have to pay everything. The company would go bankrupt, then disintegrate and try to take some profitable parts of the company, as it used to be in the past of kidnapping segments of that company and ask God what would happen, but nothing good for the citizens of Serbia. What would that mean for the value of the airport? Nothing good. See the value of the airport in 2012, which is the value of the airport reached today in the concession. Once again, "Er Serbia" has significant ownership of the Republic of Serbia, an airport of significant ownership of the Republic of Serbia, an airport of Belgrade, or "Nikola Tesla" is given in a concession. The airport is ours and in 20 years it will be ours, but someone has committed to investing in it over 700m euros, someone has committed to paying us 451m euros, someone has committed to paying us a part of the profit concession every year, and that will mean progress for our airport. As for Nisha, let's see what Nis looked like in 2012. In Nis total debts in 2012 were: 5.3 billion dinars for outstanding different debts, unpaid social contributions to citizens who were obliged to give them and 21.5m euros in loans to banks. Five point three billion dinars and 21.5m euros. That's what the city of Nis looked like in 2012. Could the city of Nis with such a government, with such a government of Serbia, that it so hosted, think about its town of Nis, invest something serious in its airport? He wouldn't either. When the situation improved and improved, the Serbian government recognised that the city of Nis was very important to it and the government of Serbia through direct donations, in addition to the transfer funds it gives to local self-government, through direct donations from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the city of Nis, gave the city of Nis more than eightm euros. The city of Nis has invested about 2m euros in the airport during this whole period in 2012, and the government, in addition, has invested 3.6m euros in the same airport. So, the government invests almost twice as much in the Nis airport, besides that the money Nish invests comes mostly from the money that all citizens put into the budget, so the government gives Nis. So, the government has repeatedly helped the airport and our goal is to make that airport serious and developed. Yes, he thanks to the good work of people doing profitable business, but profit is also when you earn a dollar and earn 10m euros, but you will agree that it is not the same. So, we're not supposed to have someone doing business just profitablely. Our goal is to make that profit as high as possible. Our goal is to employ people here, and it's not the same for us if there's gonna be another 10 new employees or 110 new workers working at the airport. The government's intention is to help the airport to be developed in a way that the entire government's efforts, since we now have someone who's worried about developing in a more serious way, which is logically, a large country, a major airport manager, can invest more money than we can at the same time and has a network that can raise the number of passengers, which is the key thing for every airport. So we have the opportunity to develop the city, as we do, and that's not the only thing that was done for the city of Nis. From what the military did and Minister Djordjevic was then the defence minister, which is everything, so the army is when the city of Nis was looking for barracks and when he was looking for parts to build different buildings and for housing, the Army said - yes, that's our city, that's Nis, no problem, here you go. Everything the Republic of Serbia could have done for Nis, because we want to help people in Nis live even better. How many companies did President Vukic bring in insisting on going to Nis, because he knew it was important to help, that no one cared about the city for years? After all, there would be no debt of 5.3 billion dinars and 21.5m euros overnight. It came about because it wasn't worrying and because it was just -- give the money, pour it, but we don't care. Why don't these people expand the airport? What's not when you go to Constantine the Great to look at and those three runways, various, various tracking objects, the new tower completely, what's not there? Well, there isn't, because nobody cared at the time. Today when you have to score some cheap points, come on, it's ours, so no one takes it. Let these people who intend to invest more money, so that's a good guess to hire a man there. What would happen to Nicole Tesla Airport if it hadn't been taken over and managed more successfully? What about that airport if Air Serbia didn't live, if we didn't have direct flights now to both the East and the West, to serious world destinations? After all, look how much this has affected Belgrade's tourism. Look at how much more, ask people who work in hospitality in Belgrade, ordinary people who own a place, hotels, cafes, restaurants, see how many more foreigners are coming, because someone can let them come easily and I think we've managed to make good co-operation. Is that still good? No, but that is why this concession will allow the airport to be more developed and their goal is to significantly increase the number of passengers. It's a direct income for both our airport and our country. So you absolutely just have to look at the gene, see how it works, how it's all done, what it's done, and in a few years it's made a dramatic turn, from huge losses to the position that we're choosing today who's going to invest and how much. Well, that's great! Is it ideal? No, but when you start with that starting position, this is really very, very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34031	Comment.. minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34032	I still did not get an answer as to why multiple invoices were paid in "Er Serbia" and I will remind you only that the loss of 86m euros would not exist if no donations of 91m euros existed. And if everything is so great and wonderful, as you say, then why is not the "Transparency of Serbia" delivered by, or the concession study set up "Transparency of Serbia" and by order of the court, and the order was given on 7 September 2017? What's there to hide if everything's so great and everything's so profitable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34033	Thank you. The question is asked by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34034	Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't think I was talking about the airport, but I want to say that the airport is not the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The low airport is the interest of all citizens living in Serbia because it is the cheapest destination when the journey of passengers leaving Novi Sad airport, from Vojvodina, from other Serbian cities and I don't understand now why the Mayor Nis doesn't cut, hold a session and make a decision, what did the government ask him to belong to, to manage the state with the airport? How Nis will manage himself, manage the airport, how he will provide passengers, etc. And it's no ordinary set of citizens, but organizers are politicians. A question for the Minister of Agriculture – can agricultural producers be informed, I know that the price of cereals is on the stock market, but the Ministry of Agriculture informs them – who are the customers in the country and abroad and on what terms? A question for the Minister of Health – can and can there be an opportunity to raise salaries to non-medical staff, cooks and cleaning workers in hospitals and in health homes? A question for Alexander Antic, Minister of Energy, Mining – to tell Serbian citizens that it is not the most expensive price of oil derivatives in Serbia, that it is much higher in some other countries and that this state and this government are not full of excise and tax budgets, something that is not in line with the average salary and the salary received by citizens in Serbia. I also want to, but Dacic's not here anymore, I don't know who's gonna answer me, he's here. A question for Minister Dacic – can we every day send NATO members the pact and the countries they bombed today in 1999. On this day, they bombed the Iron Bridge in Novi Sad. No, I think it's the Cup, and on May 30th, for example, to ask the state whose bombs and planes bombed the barbaric bridge – why they bombed and what their goal was. Let's ask those who bombed a large number of cities in Serbia with tape bombs, that today every fifth woman can't carry out pregnancy, and every sixth woman can't give birth to children. These are questions and no one can be angry with us about such questions. Let's ask France and the UK - how long will you be more...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34035	Thank you. You'll have another question to ask. Who wants to go first? Minister Lonchart.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34036	Mr. Markovic or Excellency, as already necessary, as regards salary increases, the priority for this year of the Ministry of Health, the Serbian government, is to increase salaries to first medical staff, nurses, technicians and doctors, and then non-medical staff. I'll tell you how we planned to do it. As for non-medical staff, people who help, those who clean up, those who work on other jobs, we're going to austorsing, we're going to hire companies that deal with it and automatically, and workers who are now working with us to transfer to those companies where they already have bigger salaries, and we're going to do it by the budgets that we've done, and, secondly, to increase what I said about medical staff, especially for nurses and technicians. I hope it's done this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34037	Thank you. Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34038	Thank you. Dear President and dear fellow Members, I will briefly ask Mr Markovic this question that you have asked about the wheat. I suppose it's all about the price trends of all agricultural products at all. The fact that these prices are created on stock exchanges, especially when it comes to wheat, corn and other goods, but we have one problem here, and I guess that's the question, which is very often the case on different websites, such as and such, that different arbitrary information appears in the harvest meeting and leads to fluctuations and different expectations of farmers, i.e. very often they are even deluded about the price and movement that will be in the future. The agriculture ministry is preparing for a few dozen different agricultural products of expectations that exist on the world stock exchanges and will make it public on the Ministry of Agriculture site within a special part. In the past, people have mostly run away from such things, I guess from them of known interests. We have nothing to hide, expectations are what they are, we can't affect the price, but we can make it available for citizens to know where to sell, what to move and what to do. Thank God, today we have a pretty good flow of information and more and more familiar, so this thing will be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34039	Thank you. You want an extra question? Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34040	I was not answered by Minister Dacic and Minister Alexander. I want them to answer me, so I'm going to have an extra question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34041	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34042	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Markovic, above all, when the price of oil and oil derivatives in Serbia is at stake, and what the citizens of the Republic should know and what this parliament of Serbia, between 75% and 80% of oil imports. Serbia is deeply import-dependent when oil and gas are at stake, and in this sense it is absolutely dependent on all of the world's markets, especially crude oil, which is very sensitive, and I think we are all witnessing that in the overall geostrategic relations, these prices know that they have an element of significant change, but also of certain, even political, fluctuations. At this very moment, the entire gas sector and the oil sector are facing a sharp rise in oil prices on the market as a result of those developments in Syria ten days ago. What I think is good news for all of us is that at one point there was a rise in the price of oil on the world market, that this growth had stopped, that it was now in a slight decline and fluctuation, and I don't expect that these trends that happened would affect our market more significantly. When it comes to the price of oil and oil derivatives in Serbia, the price the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are talking about, Mr Markovic is absolutely right, it is absolutely in line with the prices we have in the region. Taking into account the fact that, as such and by the Association of Oil Companies of Serbia, these results are being monitored and published on a weekly basis, I have one such report. By the way, Mr. Markovic came to me with a bit of a question, but in my sport, Billy's purse I found that data and they're when it comes to the nuance below the average level of the region, when it comes to the shade above the average in the region. We will make every effort to find additional solutions in this period, especially now that agricultural works are going, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, so that, above all, oil for the village and for agricultural producers at the time of intensive agricultural work is even more favourable.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34043	I thank Minister Antic. The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34044	What's for sure is that we need to defend very firmly and consistently the principles about which there's no dilemma that we're right. That's the way it is, for example. the issue of Serbia bombing in 1999, i.e. the SRJ, because such a decision was made without a UN Security Council decision. On the other hand, I also think that we must not forget that many countries in Europe, and right now the president of parliament, who came out, told me that she received a report from the Italian Parliament on the impact of the bombing on KIM on Italian soldiers who participated in KIM missions. Accordingly, these people are afraid for their lives and that great mortality is exactly the people who, I think Dr. Laketic went there and talked about it. We support the formation of a state commission, and parliamentary if necessary at the level of state authorities, which would examine the link, especially malignant diseases. Is it formed? Yes, it was formed, because there was a story about it. These issues should be addressed, when what Dragan Markovic was talking about, should be constantly reminded, these topics should not be allowed to go into oblivion. You know, often at UN Security Council meetings on Kosovo, no one mentions more people who have been expelled from Kosovo, although in these 19 years, after the UN mission arrived, that is, only 1.9% of displaced persons returned, but that seems to be taboo topic. When you mention the subject now, then everyone starts to complain, so don't talk about it. So we can't let this topic go into oblivion, because that means that we don't respect people who have been expelled from Kosovo, we don't respect people who have lost their lives in bombings or suffered enormous material damage. So, what Dragan Markovic was saying, I certainly agree that we should work on it. Whether it is now in the form of a protest or it is in the form of some reminders or in the form of some notes, it should also be with international factors, those who participated in the bombing in an appropriate way should be made aware that we have not changed our opinion on all this. Last night, to mention another Donald Tusk who was at the president's dinner last night and then showed him a public opinion survey and what our citizens' attitude towards individual international organisations and individual states is like. You know, when you look at the attitude towards NATO, there's no need to talk about it at all. That is indelible, because more than 80% of Serbian citizens are against even entering and talking about it, and of course we are not having any discussion about it, nor are we in the first place. So, Mr. Markovic, I apologize for not answering at the beginning, but I'm also prepared for the entire Foreign Ministry to work together with all of you on this. I think the role of parliament and parliamentary diplomacy is very important. I asked the president of parliament to help in contact with the parliaments of individual countries, especially those countries that are considering withdrawing the KIM recognition, to invite them here to visit, to draw close to them, to exchange information. I think it's necessary to have more contact with those people who are with these countries in some way, someone is going to smile now and we're going to go back to that inconsistencies, as long as you're more unsettled, etc. This is where the first conference of the unturned was held, here, in this building in 1961. More than 80 countries have not recognised Kosovo, 60 of them and some of the countries are from the Unclassified Movement. So we have to take care of it and it's our national and state interests. So when someone from Burundi comes or doesn't matter, someone from this Surinam, who pulled the confessions, should be welcomed with the utmost respect, because they did it with great pressure from the International Community and the large countries that invested in their protests. In Guinea, for example, they replaced the Prime Minister. The US ambassador and French have led Kosovo's ambassador from Senegal to Guinea-Bissau to convince the president to replace the prime minister who was against it. And, since the situation is otherwise unstable there, the situation is now there, the president of parliament confirmed in a conversation with us, that they have not confessed and that they will not admit it. The president is under the pressure of these great ambassadors, but I'm saying it's a topic that's still in place everywhere in the world. That's why we don't surrender and fight anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34045	Thank you. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34046	Just for a little while... (Dear Markovic: I didn't ask him anything.) It is important that the public knows, regardless of what some will not, that the Ministry of Environment, along with the health and defence ministries, formed a co-ordination body that will and will deal with the issue of the consequences of NATO bombing. To inform you that in 1999 and 2000 we have remediated those points in central Serbia that have been bombed by poored uranium, that there are more work to be done, but that our task is to see what the consequences are, to protect our citizens from possible further consequences, since this has not been done so far. What's also important is that this scientific part of our team will be very professional, that the state will. The Ministry provides funds for this job and that we will form the so-called a national laboratory that will actually be made up of all the capacities Serbia already has. Buying possibly some of what my colleague Loncar will know is necessary from this equipment, and missing to carry out real research, impact on biodiversity, citizens and assess whether such a number of malignancies really have something to do with the bombing, but not only the poored uranium, but also the bombing of petrochemical and other capacities, which have caused terrible damage to Serbia, and also those powerful overruns that have affected the very state of the environment. Greece also participated in this for reasons that I will not now explain and what is important and you should know, the biggest bombing victim that took place in 1999 is the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, and that no land remediation has been performed there and it has not been determined what happened and I am sure that the number of patients, as with us, must be significantly large and that NGOs there is very interested in what happened with it. Citizens living in KIM, who are actually citizens of Serbia, also have the right to know what is going on there, what is the situation, to remediate, and we will try to do all that together with them there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34047	I thank Minister Trivan. Mr. Markovic, please, you have three more minutes to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34048	To correct you, Mr. Trivan, Greece did not participate in these attacks and did not drop any tape bombs, even condemned by NATO pact members for not participating in the bombing at the time, but without a connection. I didn't ask you for reasons I'm against the ban on importing cars, diesels that cost three, four thousand euros and are bought by ordinary people and that we now prohibit plastic bags in stores. When you go to the market in Switzerland, you also have a plastic bag, but it doesn't matter. You're not bad, I'm just saying this. I want the police minister to answer me, as long as we wait for there to be a problem in Nis for the reason that a bad picture is sent to interested investors in Europe. The low airport does not belong to either the Niš City Assembly or Nis, the Niš airport is owned by the state at the use of the town of Nis. Once again, from all over Serbia, passengers from Europe come to a airport because, for example, a plane transport from Nis to Slovakia costs, you have a ticket for 50 euros. Who's that bothering? Perhaps those who organize it know that the police will not react, because the police have not responded since 2008, when they were Minister of Police Ivica Dacic and when you're the police minister, the police don't beat the people, they don't touch the people, everyone can express their dissatisfaction on the street, but what's the state going to get? I ask you in the interest of the state, because I can say freely, because I have brought the largest number of investors in Serbia, based on the number of residents that Jagodin has, and I know how difficult it is to bring in an investor. Everyone's asking how far the airport is from your city, from another city, etc. Which I would go to Belgrade, when I'm closer to Nis, and me and someone from Leskovec, from Vranj, etc. Please respond in a formal sense, tell Mayor Nis, if he doesn't have a majority, let him resign, let's go to a new election in Nis. In the new elections when we go to Nis, I'm sure the citizens will vote for some continuity that has been so far. They say there are two, three, four currents, you saw that letter that came from Dvora to Unity Serbia. And now she, someone who belongs to the opposition, came to the Unique Serbia and thought it would pass, she's against it. Who are you, lady, that you're against, when your family isn't even a voice for you? And to set an example for us and an obstacle to something that needs to be done in the interest of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34049	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34050	I hope sincerely in the light of everything we have said and in the interest of the citizens of Nis and the development of our country, both Nis and his elected local representatives will find common language with the Serbian Government and that everyone will understand, because I believe that most Nis citizens understand well, that the strategic investment of the state in the Niš airport is good for all people. What's wrong with the state wanting to invest some of its money and help the airport to be well-developed? I hope, as I know, you're right about the investor, I know how much the president had to suffer, especially in 2014 and 2015, to bring in serious investors. Anyone who does this deserves praise, because anyone who brings a new job has done something good for the people of this country. I know how much every message is to the destruction and every message that investors have, unfortunately, there have been these cases where people have been sending messages, even some people who are politicians that we don't need foreign investors, of course we need both domestic and foreign investors, we need all the people who want to bring their money. As far as the MUP is concerned, we only make sure that the meetings are properly reported and this meeting was. We want to cultivate the possibility that people have a different opinion and that public, peaceful gatherings show it. Of course, on the parties that organise it, on those people where organisations have thought about what message they're sending and whether they're doing it in the interest of people who live in that same city. It is easy to take a stand, but it is necessary to think carefully about the consequences of this attitude, whether it will be more money for the citizens of Nis or less money. Whether there will be more jobs or less. We respect the right of people to have a different attitude, to work as long as it's legal, to express their will and of course the police have, you could see it in all the protests, a minimum number of people are usually present on the streets, we don't need any number of cops to be present, because the police are there to be with their people, and not against him. Indeed, the minimum number of people in the last few years has been in all events and events. Of course, according to the security assessment, but I agree that we may all have to work on making it clearer to send messages about how difficult it is to bring a job and how easy it is to drive out an investor. The first thing that goes when there's any instability and any uncertainty, the first thing that leaves is money. Money runs, goes where it's safe, where it's safe for him, where there's no risk for the investor, especially since there are investors who are traditionally, I say, unprepared to suffer any negative campaign that they won't. Okay, you don't need our money, we don't want to come to your country, there's anyone who wants us. We have to take care of it as a society and as a state of it. I hope that everyone will understand it and hope that everyone will work on it, and I sincerely hope that the mayor and the people of Nisa will think about what is the best interest of Nisa and will make such a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34051	The Minister of Labour and Employment did not answer me, and I may not have asked him, here, now I ask him – the problem is in the social work centres. So when a divorce occurs and no one knows who the child will belong to, whether to father or mother, that process takes a long time and a few years. Who's the biggest victim? The victim is that child. I don't believe it's a weak law, there may be emotions among those who work in those institutions, but that's just the way it is. (Bosko Obradovic: He has no right to speak. You keep your mouth shut because your other councilmen from the Dvora will come to Unity Serbia, so you know. They started coming in line, but they came in and I threw them out in two months, but just to let you know that you know. What else did I want to say? To realize that many investors continue to come to Serbia and what is most important, Serbian investors, who have factories, have increased exports... (Bosko Obradovic: He has no right to speak. You shut the fuck up about beating women, man. You beat women and dominate the power of women, I invite you, I'll put a coat, backpack and 50 kilos of cement on... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34052	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Dear Markovic: Wait a minute, you see he throws this bully at me all the time.) I need you to get the time back. I'll give you your time back, but the system isn't working. You've got half a minute, sign in, please. (Bosko Obradovic: Don't do this in front of the government. Is it true, Chairman, that we are fools? Say it openly, it's not controversial. How can you not be ashamed? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34053	Mr. Chairman, first of all, you should warn those who earn, because they don't know that women didn't fight in the 17th century. This is the 21st century. Women who beat women once are only in transit to parliament and politically disappear, because women are a large electoral body and women have an impact on men in Serbia. It is not right for you to demonstrate your dissatisfaction and show force, so simply, this is the only place left and perhaps two more years of individual MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34054	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Dear Markovic: Wait, slow down. You took me two minutes. No, I didn't, believe me, but the system isn't working. You had half a minute later. Thank you, you've got an extra half minute. Mr. Obradovic will think that we do not want him to ask questions, rather. Mr. Beard, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34055	Mr. Chairman, you'll have to understand my porch. I haven't experienced this in two years, since I've been a MP, so I can ask questions to the government. It's seven o'clock. [[Disabled microphone.]] Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34056	Would you please reapply? (Dear Markovic: Give me back, man, time, twice you took me a minute.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34057	Do I hear from you, Mr. Chairman? The honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable fellow MPs, indeed, is a great honor to be given the opportunity to ask the government a question after two years, so let me start with the questions immediately. Under one, will the Government of the Republic of Serbia sign a legally binding agreement with the false state of Kosovo, which will allow Kosovo to join the UN? Yes or no? There's no need for long answers. Two, what countermeasures did the Government of the Republic of Serbia bring after the arrest and harassment of her high-ranking official Mark Djuric? Why did they not immediately suspend the negotiations in Brussels, the anti-constitutional Brussels Agreement and the UN Security Council's emergency session, which would require the return of Kosovo and Metohija and the UN and the implementation of Resolution 1244, under which we have the right to return to a thousand members of Serbian state personnel in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Under three, since this is a topic everywhere in the world, when will the theme of Kosovo and Metohija be the topic and session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Under four, when will domestic businessmen be able to count on income tax cuts and other reliefs, and domestic farmers on larger subsidies than these disastrously small subsidies at this time? Under five, does the Government of the Republic of Serbia consider tax reforms in favour of the family in such a way as to reduce the income tax and property tax of each member of the family? Under six, it is possible that Serbia is the only country in Europe that has not solved the problem of families, more than 20,000 of them, which have loans indexed in Swiss francs, which is an unprecedented bank robbery and thieving allowed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. Under seven, what are you going to do to meet educators who sought out single pay classes and twice the 10% salary increase in yesterday's Union of Educational Workers Union protest in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Under eight -- when will it finally be paid to all the workers, and over 100,000 of them are concerned, everything they have been kidnapped in robbery privatisations from unpaid earnings, unrelated work experience and unpaid severances? Under nine -- when will the law on war veterans finally be passed, solve the issue of free and defence war fighters from 1991 to 1999? In the end – when it will finally end, after 16 years, the process of spying on Mr Momcilo Perisic, Deputy Prime Minister, who was captured in 2002 teaching state... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34058	Thank you, Mr. Obradich. The word is held by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34059	A lot of questions in a short time. First of all, you are, as citizens of Serbia, witnesses that after a terrorist act, as we are experiencing it and as our prosecution considers, against Mark Djuric and citizens of Serbian nationality living in our southern province, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime has launched an investigation and in that sense we are taking measures and actions, we are listening to the persons, since you are asking what we have done, and we are taking the actions that should lead to the qualification of this act and to press charges against those, whether they are perpetrators or whether they are employers. There is already one good direction, in the sense that we have who are the persons who participated in different parts of it, that these faces are being charged and that there is an opportunity to be available to our organs, to bring to justice. So the Department of Justice and the Home Office are working intensively on it. Our goal is that this kind of serious crime, not only against Mark Đuric, but the institutions of the Republic of Serbia that he represents in our southern province, is not unpunished, but that we send a powerful message that something like this, which has indeed come upon a conviction, even those who support Pristina in their secessionist ambitions, because it was completely inappropriate, was monstrous and such arrogant behavior deserves nothing less than a heavy, difficult qualification and prosecution, and later Interpol's arrest warrants, if the court so decides, for all of these persons. I know it won't always be easy and I don't want to tell you that we can get to all those faces, but we'll try. As we have never given up on the warrants of the courts for Thaci and Haradinaj, we will not give up, and if anywhere we can get to those faces, those faces will be brought to our laws. As far as the Brussels negotiations are concerned, that's exactly why they're being interrupted. We cannot talk if the way we talk is such that people who are key negotiators, and Marko Đuric, that is, people who sit with these people and talk, will be harassed and abused in the most terrible way, just as an expression, I would say impotence, but this shows that there is no willingness to discuss the most important topic, which is the implementation of the Brussels Agreement, or the Community of Serb municipalities. Our essential thing, our most important thing is precisely the insistence on implementing this part of the Brussels Agreement. When there is readiness, and we expect it to show its true intentions there, and the European Union, if the European Union, which is guaranteed and is a signator of the Brussels Agreement, so someone who guaranteed it and signed it by the Pristina Party, if the European Union was guaranteed, then insists on full implementation, not on the implementation of a partial, audited, like this or such, but on the implementation of the agreement as signed. That's what we insist on. As for the National Assembly session, I cannot answer that because it is not in the government's jurisdiction, we cannot schedule sessions of the National Assembly. As for relations with fighters and their rights, I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the previous, of course, had an extremely large amount of hearing to correct some historical injustices towards the people who fought for this country, in different periods. I'm glad we have, I believe, the absolute majority support of the National Assembly for such things, because Serbia must not be a country that will forget people who have actually gone, some have given the most important and most valuable things they have, their lives. I try to always show respect to members of the interior ministry, especially those who died fighting for Serbia or protecting Serbia in any way. These families in both the military and the police, we hire, we try to find a way to meet these people in solving their various social issues. We're finding a way to fix their status. It's not always possible to find money for everyone. I know there are going to be some questions that will always be subject to whether enough money was enough for this or that, but we're trying to show all the money we have and above all respect for these people in every place, because it seems to me that at some point some authorities have been a little reluctant to show any kind of attitude towards the people who participated, I can say freely, in the defense wars. We were not involved in aggression against anyone, and I am sorry that there was no hearing at that time that these people were treated the way everyone would like to be treated by each of us. We hope that this will continue in every subsequent government, and I hope that not only those who were in the ranks of the military and police, but also those who were as ordinary citizens, who were in the ranks of the Yugoslav Army or the Army of Serbia-Montenegro or the Army of Serbia, who were in all those units, that they would have due respect and that we would find a way that through our education systems, through our history we would point out the role of those people who were practically always on the defender of the country. We must always be proud of that, we must do as other countries do, we must safeguard all these traditions. As far as these other questions are concerned, I can't answer some that don't literally affect the work of the Ministry that I represent, so either one of your colleagues will say that or you'll get them in writing, but certainly we'll try to answer everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-26-0.u34060	Thank you, Vice President. Given that, according to the member and in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, parliamentary questions are being asked over a period of 16 to 19 hours, and now that it is 19 hours and 12 minutes, we are finishing our work in the session on parliamentary issues. I thank you all for your participation. I remind you once again, we will continue our work tomorrow, on Friday, April 27th, starting at 10:00 p.m.
