ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36113	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work today. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Professor Marko Atlagic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, all members of the government are invited to attend. Today, in this part of the session, we have the Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and co-workers from the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36114	Madam President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have here very sharp criticism of the very concept of this law, because we believe that first this law is late and not only applies to this government, but huge funds have been spent during the rule of the "yellow company" that first emptied all the money that was left behind after 2000 and bursts into the housing fund. And you know very well, Mrs Gojkovic, that by 2000 there were different laws that regulated this area. And now because of this kind of solution in the future of the housing issue, although only the security force sector is covered, many from the sector will remain deprived of solving this issue. Here's why. In fact, this law does not cover military homeless people. It is one category, and that expression has become a bit of a home run because people are famous Serbian officers and participants of the last country wars in the former Yugoslavia, who have been expelled by Ustasha, Croatian authorities from their hearths, have not had the opportunity to solve their housing issues there either as officers, and then have come to Serbia after the end of the war, and are now and today in various acceptable places in barracks across Serbia, here in Belgrade at the Bristol Hotel, do not hold my word, but there are certainly more than twenty families who are still there, and for them it is a mental noun for them to solve this housing issue in the future. First of all, because of the fact that some of them, unfortunately, are not alive. You did not give this law the opportunity for children of fighters in the last country wars and those who defended Serbian national and state interests west of Drina and Danube and those who died in the fight against the Cypriot terrorist forces in Kosovo and Metohija, so their descendants will not be able to compete for these apartments. That is the main problem, and that is why we have asked for this title to change, and later my colleagues and I will, in the course of further discussions and under Article 1 in particular, point out how this could have been solved differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36115	Thank you. At the title of the Amendment Law, Natasa Sp submitted a National MP. Jovanovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36116	Here, I can continue this story here, but also potentiate another problem. In fact, the idea of covering the security forces sector is not enough because it also creates a staff selection in society. You also, Mrs Gojkovic, and many MPs who were MPs in meetings by 2000, know very well that Serbia is within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and before that within the SFRY and how effectively it has resolved these issues. When we were listening to all the nebuloses spoken by the representatives of this thieving yellow authority the other day, as someone took and shared some apartments, they don't know that this was beyond what was necessary, right, Mr Stefanovic, and that the state had invested everything it could in certain settlements throughout all Serbia to make so-called cities. military, police buildings, and we even have some apartments, in Kragujevac specifically one building was completed for members of the interior forces right before the criminal NATO bombing. But what's the problem here now is the way these people are going to apply, these are some of the misunderstandings that need to be in the course of this debate in particular to discuss and to shed light on which business banks, will they all be able to, they're being surveyed? Because, you know, you go to some business bank and now many citizens of Serbia while we talk about this are exactly in line with various banks in Serbia. It's the trouble that got them to pay for communals, go to prom, send their kids on a field trip, enroll them in colleges. For one cash loan, as popularly said, you need to bring in a bunch of documentation, and for the housing credit history of that someone's business, where he was, how he spent money on the current account. It's not just so simple marketing, you say, well, that's 500 euros per square, you'll be able to apply for that loan and you'll get an apartment. No, he doesn't have that cash, there's no state-owned development bank, as there is in the Russian Federation, we're telling you right now, as it is not even for agrarian, so it's neither for construction, nor for the construction industry. As a result, they will come into a situation where they may be able to compete with a commission to decide and make a selection that has in the first part an opportunity to apply, but when it comes to realisation it will be a big problem, first of all because of low incomes, first because of the fact that many members of the security forces of their wife are not employed, and also because of the fact that they will not be able to do so in this sector too, they will not be able to submit the application and buy an apartment under these conditions or members of the army who are so-called. War veterans. That's why it's selective and it's not correct and it's not fair to a huge number of people who are going to be left out with this possibility to come and solve their living issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36117	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36118	The big problem is also with this law and its realization that there are no possibilities for one part of the most endangered, primarily disabled of the last country wars to solve this issue for free, first of all I think about the members of the army, because it was the most, and I was just talking about the category of so-called. The military homeless, over 800 families, were very much engaged in the period from 2005 to 2012, and talked to many of their representatives today and the problem was not solved, and there was good will. There was also Mr. Stevanovic, right, Mr. Stevanovic, while he was mayor of Kragujevac, was one initiative, although the SRS was then opposition. I believe it was in some other cities in Serbia, to replace property, specifically with us, the "Radomir Putnik" barracks in Kragujevac, with the property of the Serbian Army, to actually make compensation between the town of Kragujevac and the property sector of the military, however, that NATO Minister Sutanovac did not want to hear, so he did some assessment which is a few million euros higher than the real value. These people were waiting, waiting, and because of that yellow thieving power, they didn't welcome anything. It was promised then that it would come from this property and home of the Army, and we have an example of the machination with the House of the Army in Smederjevska Palanca, right, and so on in many other cities in Serbia. So, the mass of that capital was not exploited, that at least those who were badly wounded, and members of their families and those children who had lost their fathers resolved the housing issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36119	Here you go. Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36120	Thank you. Appreciate what I think you also support that the largest number of members of the military, the police, can resolve our living issue, we have had one situation that because of the specificity of work and something that soldiers and police officers do, which endangers their safety every day in carrying out their activities, we felt that this should be the first category of people from the state administration to get this kind of convenience, that for the price that the law predicted, not more than 500 euros per square metre, and could be lower in certain environments. For Belgrade, however, indeed, at the very decent locations set by the commission, 500 euros per square metre is something that is really very favourable and acceptable, they can resolve their question, and of course other people who belong to the public administration in other categories, when in the country this project comes to life, that they will be able to compete later. What is important to us, we will make a public call just to avoid being able to literally, i.e. to allow the largest number of people to meet the financial criteria, the government will issue a public call to which we expect more banks to be able to offer under equal conditions, the most favourable conditions and in terms of interest rates and other conditions of credit to enable, and for military pensioners, which is something the military had in both the previous period and for police pensioners, and for those people who are active in the service, to compete and to exercise those rights. What is good, which is in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs, there are certain funds, as well as in the Ministry of Defence, which are open to those people who are disabled and those who are fighters from previous wars. We have to remember, fully support it, we have to remember those people who have fought for this country and who have offered their health and their lives, and we are going to try, of course, to make their lives easier through these funds. All those who retired as military persons have the right for many years to take advantage of the opportunity to compete and as pensioners for apartments. Of course, this law also supports pensioners from other systems, from other parts of the security system, and I think that the largest number of these people will be able to apply for housing issues. Once again, I think the price is acceptable. We will, of course, try to make sure through a public call, and to ensure favourable banking conditions, that it is not too much of a burden for them and their families, but of course, that we continue to follow this law together. I hope we can come up with a good model of a solution where people in the security system, where they serve, where they now live, because they haven't always been able to live and serve in the same places, that this way they will solve for themselves and their families, these very important existential issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36121	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title of this bill, because as linguists, you will agree yourself that the law is massive and the title of the law is complicated. It's a short bill of only a dozen pages and about 26, 27 pages of text. I think a better solution to the title of this law is to read – a bill on special conditions for building apartments for members of security forces. The Syntagma for the implementation of the project I think is too high and unnecessary, because both the meaning and the essence are already contained in the title of this bill. But if my observation wasn't just linguistic, I'd say the SRS isn't against the idea of building apartments, cheap and affordable apartments, but for all categories. There are other endangered professions, such as miners who do hard and dangerous work, then, educational workers, the most important social activity. Well, health workers who are unable to solve their existential and life problem are at the very top of professions that want to leave the country. As far as the facts are concerned, everything is easy. We have an emergency procedure and a lex specialis. The emergency procedure the government introduces as a way to regulate these laws, as a general place and Lex specialis is already in a special way introduced as a practice in solving these problems, under the pretext that it is important.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36123	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the title of the Bill of Law by Parliament of the People, Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the title of the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for the members of the security forces, I have submitted an amendment to the more precise setting of the criteria for the implementation of this project. The SRS parliamentary group has no objection to this idea, and we agree that security forces need to resolve the housing issue, however, this bill sets criteria for selecting registered candidates are not clearly defined, they are too broad and there is no telling who will get the apartment, or how they will get the opportunity to buy the apartment. The basic condition for buying a cheap apartment is that you are a member of a security force that has no settled housing issue or has an inappropriate apartment. We know that over 30,000 security forces have an unresolved housing issue, and that through some of your surveys, 18905 members have shown interest. Minister Mihajlovic said there are no ranking lists and that in the first part, the first phase of 1578 apartments. On what criteria are you going to choose 1,578 people who will be able to buy an apartment? Are there any lists of priorities and it is also unclear whether there is some division, or some quota under which apartments will be divided by ministries? Another question - who has the advantage of buying an apartment, an active member of a security force or a retired person, or an earlier member of a security force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36125	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36126	These are good questions. So, there are some things that need to be clarified for people to know. First of all, there are no quotas per ministry. We have introduced a system that all are equal, to view the Corps of Security as one -- equal pensioners, equal cops, soldiers, members of the BIA. So everyone equals. Of course, in order to avoid a process that could inevitably damage someone in terms of the championship, we have put the principle that the first person to apply has the right to get an apartment first. Why? Because it's built enough for everyone. So no one who competed is going to lose an apartment. We did one analysis in our security system first. We have conducted a survey among people about the principles of how many are interested in building this type of apartment, i.e. to obtain apartments. We have more categories in it. We even included people with inadequate housing issues. So, not only those who have not solved the housing issue, but someone who has over the years received an apartment of 20, 14, 18 square meters, which is not decent and adequate for members of those families. It was one system. The second system was to see the interest of geography in which cities were interested and we offered concrete locations. The people made a statement, and based on these parameters, we created a task force that, at government level, together with the Department of Construction, made a practical action plan for us to start and then we came up with a plan to make that 1,500... First, it could have been 1600 and 1200, but as soon as it's done, it's going to be the next phase and it's going to be one after another soon. So, all those who compete will get apartments. Whether someone is going to get something sooner or later, we decided to do it by the first requirement system, not by the principle of doing rank lists, because then there is whether there is, first of all, the one who spent longer, whether the one who was in the harder job, whether the one who has more members of the family and then you could always figure out whether it's objective.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36127	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36128	Thank you very much. There are great dilemmas about this law. That's what I was saying in the principle debate. Of course it is necessary to help people who work in the defence system, security, to come up with the necessary solution to their housing problem, but the big question is, is this the right way? There's a lot of demagogy in this story. It all starts again two, three years ago or today, nothing ever happened again, and our cities are full of apartments, not buildings, but streets and boulevards that are completely inhabited only by military and police, and that's fine. It was built back in the '90s, it was built in the '90s. The flats were divided even when it was SFRY and later, both after 5 October and before 5 October and there is no need to make an empty drama out of something that is only at the level of the idea. There's a lot of inconsistencies and inconsistencies. I've said it before, so let me say it again. How does the government feel about solving the housing issue of 18,900 people who have applied to want to solve their housing issue this way, if there is a plan in the period until 2021 to solve around 1,600. That means less than 10%. This means, according to the resolution, it takes 20 and a few years to solve the problems of all those who have reported themselves interested in such a solution. That means it's possible that people who started working a few years ago will retire, and they won't solve their living issue. The amount of money provided for these close to 1,600 flats of 60 and some million, I made that bill, if it costs 500 euros per meter per square metre, turns out that the average apartment is over 82 square meters, which is not in line with what the law says, that the largest apartments are 92 square meters, and I didn't get an adequate answer. My question was and what was happening, perhaps the police minister knows better answers to these questions than the minister who defended the law in the principle debate, what about the people who are members of the security force, who in some way have solved the housing issue, maybe they got the dowry, maybe someone left them as a gift, maybe they got the lottery, I don't know, in some way? Isn't it obvious that they are discriminated against by people who will be able to get an apartment like this? We need to find a solution for them, too. Maybe someone has an idea of a business that someone in his family could do. And he needs to be given some kind of subsidy, some kind of incentive to be able to solve another job. The question that has absolutely lost its answer is what about the people of education, health and culture? They play an important role in our society, in every society, even in ours, and they have no adequate wages for what they do, nor have any possibility of solving their housing issue in any way. Is there a solution for them? No, it doesn't exist. We have, like, one example of that. We see that there has been a coalition once again on the principles of Slobodan Milosevic, and we have received it officially last week as an attitude that one good part of parliament, one socialist, one advanced, one, is not backward, but radical, continues with Slobodan Milosevic's policy and I wish them much happiness, health and for everything else to address their pharmacist or doctor, but the question is why are we allowing others to be offended? There's another story about some yellow thieves. There is one minister, I have no reason to defend him, but in his time, as I recall, Stepa Stepanovic's settlement, where there are several thousand housing units, so let's get out of demagogy when we're dealing with some serious business and move on to things that can really help the citizens of Serbia. I expect the minister to give me answers to these questions of mine and thank the government for accepting one of the six amendments proposed by the Independent Members' Club. Look wonders, it is on Article 4 where the amendment is accepted – paragraph 5 is deleted. Of course, because there's a complete excuse to delete, because that solution has already been given in one previous member, so it's completely pointless to repeat it several times, and that's totally fine, but that's why I expect the other side to stop with the quasi funny comments of such amendments. Of course, there are amendments that read "expect", which have their logic and their own meaning in efforts to make a bill, or law, better than it was in the initial text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36129	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36130	So the total interest is about 20,000 apartments, roughly speaking. So, together with military pensioners, the need for a survey that has been done in all security forces has been so indicated. We start building 5,203 apartments this year. So the next phase can begin as early as next year, will depend on multiple factors. So we expect 5,203 this year in the third quarter. It has to be done, of course, and the planning documentation. It's got to be ready for property and everything. The documents have to be prepared to make it all legal and structural from 36 to 92 meters square, since it's modular construction. You, in fact, according to the number of members who show interest, from the garage to the four-bedroom apartment, because of the number of family members, we went so as not to be more than that, because there's no need, since we're giving a subsidized price. There's no need to go to some big luxury. On the other hand, we felt that under 36 square meters, there was no point in that. Now the question remains, we have left room to establish an inadequate housing solution, someone who does not, I know you didn't just mention it, so I will come to that, so those who have an inadequately resolved housing issue have the right to compete, and this law has not treated those who have an adequate solution, someone who has an apartment of 70, 60, 80, 80 square meters, who has received any way, or has a settled housing issue. We went to get rid of those people who had no solution. Because they would be able to buy a subsidized apartment, and they already have a settled housing issue, in fact achieve some kind of extra profit. We also gave the possibility that a member of the security force would stop being a member of the security force, that he could leave the system, but then he's in charge of paying the market price of the apartment and can keep it in his possession. So he can say at any moment that he no longer wants to be a member of the security force, but then that apartment is no longer 500 euros for him, or 500 euros at most, but as much as estimates, whether the tax administration or some other body. These are, I think, the essential things that come out of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36131	Thank you. By amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36132	It was just one question, and I asked many others – what about health care, what about education, what about culture and people who work there? You said the construction of 5,203 apartments started. Your colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister, said at the end of last week, and that's what the law says, it's 1.589 apartments. There's a big difference. So it's not just about the possibility of permuting numbers, it's about the difference between nearly 4,000 apartments. I'd like us to find out exactly what it is. Because 4000 apartments more or less, it comes to you about 200-300 million more or less, which I think is too much of a figure to be insecure to the public who needs to know exactly what it is. Is it true what you say, or is it true what Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic said?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36133	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36134	I assume the minister spoke of the first stage of construction, where it could begin immediately. We expect that by the third quarter, planning documentation will be completed for the 5,203 cities that have delivered opportunities, locations and documentation so far. We believe that by the third quarter it will be possible to start building 5,203 apartments. So that's what we think is real and we can regulate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36135	By amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36136	Thank you. I would be very pleased if that were true, but just now Vice President Mihajlovic said that by the end of this year the project documentation will be completed for 1,589, don't hold me by my word, here somewhere, slightly less than 1,600 apartments. No mention of 5,000 apartments. She said there could be 64 million funds in the budget, which is necessary for this amount of housing. If she's almost four times bigger, that means she'll need four times more money. Therefore, it would be good for the government to have before the reconstruction, during reconstruction, and especially now that it is without the finance minister, that there are statements that have been agreed on. It would be nice if it could all be over by the end of this year, but we all know it's not real, or anyone's expecting it. But let's at least get information to convince the citizens that this isn't just a dream and another fairy tale, but that it's something that's seriously thought about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36137	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momcilo Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker in his first speech, I guess he couldn't stand it without mentioning Slobodan Milosevic, the Serbian Progressive Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party, he mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36139	Comrade Mandic, you can only hurt the Rules of Procedure directly done. We've already had...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36140	I answered, I held the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36141	It means nothing to me until you ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36142	But I kept the Rules of Procedure. Can I just take half a minute, I won't take it away from you anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36143	No, no. Thank you. Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36144	I am convinced, and here I am now consulting with colleagues from the Ministry of Construction, the whole system is conceived in phase construction and we will start some projects already in August, some in September, some in October and some in November. So it's about a time when construction can start and we believe that weather conditions will allow it. Definitely in this first phase you can build 1,500. By the end of the year, we believe 5,200 could begin construction. Of course, it can't end. Five thousand two hundred three, yes, that's according to the projection that's right here in front of us. So we'll certainly try to be respected. Now, what's good is that this is a system solution that allows us to plan to solve in the next two to three years, four, as long as it takes to build this whole system, how successful we are. After all, they'll see how much we'll succeed this year, we'll see in November whether we've achieved that dynamic or not. After all, that's something people judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36145	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Despotovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36146	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, the SRS has submitted several amendments to the proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. The bill on housing for security forces is certainly a good idea, only if implemented. Why do I say that? The main reason is because 30,000 people in the military, the police, the BIA is residentially unsettled, and 19905 is looking for a roof over their heads, and it is planned to build 1,578 housing units. For this reason, we believe that the number of 1,578 is very small to meet the needs of those who need the apartment over. Who, and in what way, will set the criteria for the assignment of these apartments for this distribution to be truly transparent, fair, and not in principle like, obedient and Burzerish? To be honest, with these salaries they have in the Army, they're not enough for credit in one of the banks, either that side or domestic. We must not allow another bank fraud where the citizens, the 19,000 who are in charge of the Swiss francs, are in debt slavery, and they have no possibility of being helped by the state, such as countries in an environment such as Hungary, Montenegro and others. These apartments should work domestic companies, with a reputation, of course. Let's say, the firm that reports the tender for the construction of these apartments is the most favourable, and when it enters the business, the quality of the worst. Oversight again the same as this firm, unfortunately, where the possibility of corruption is opened. Of course, I don't mean all the people with a supervisory license, who have honest and honest ones. Most of the corruption cases are in small areas, where the possibility of abuse is opened, and control of the same minimal or not at all. Therefore, the criminal provisions should be tightened, including the withdrawal of the licence. I'm not just saying this to criticize, because I'm someone who's been taking part in the political life of a community and I've seen that often those who participate in the exercise of power have their own companies, and they participate in tenders that I find inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36147	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36148	Thank you, Chairman. I've got group time, and I've got authority, so as you wish. I'm glad that at least one of the ministers who deals with the security sector is here, and I also spoke on the day that I had the time of the group as an authorised representative, I think it's a devastating fact, and that's when I said that I'm not directly accusing this government, but that, mostly because six and a half years in power that 30,000 members of the security sector have no settled housing issue. Should the members, regardless of whether they work at the Ministry of Defence, the BIA or other security authorities, resolve their housing issues? Yes, you should. I would like the minister to answer my question, since I didn't get an answer from Minister Mihajlovic, and I didn't get an answer from the SNS, because the empty benches were probably because of the boycott towards the minister, but it's not our business and it's not going to make the members of the security sector live any better. How will the Minister, a member of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Defence single out 500 euros per square? If it's normal for a four-member family to live in 80 squares, how will they single out 40,000 euros to buy an apartment on condition that what the building minister Zorana Mihajlovic has passed to us as a law? We saw her statements that she said that in 2016 we would travel to Novi Sad from Belgrade in half an hour. That's not gonna happen. We had a plan to build apartments at a cost of 380 euros per square cent. That's not gonna happen either. I'd like this project to happen. The Democratic Party is the opposition to the strongest SNS, but the DS will never be an opposition to Serbia and Serbia's citizens and all that is good for Serbia. I don't know if you have the information, you probably have, that 72% of the members working at the Ministry of Defence have an average profit lower than the average earnings in Serbia, and that civilians working in the military have an average profit of 22,000 dinars. I'd like you to explain to me that someone with such earnings, with reduced salaries, with reduced wages, with reduced pensions, since this includes people who are retired, who worked in the security sector, will be able to single out 500 euros per square, and solve their living issue? It's clear that those who provide us and our borders can't take care of our safety can't do their job securely, as a doctor can't do, as no profession in the world can do in a valid way, if you come to work, and you're thinking about whether you left your wife home to pay for the electricity, whether you sent your child on a trip, whether you had the money to buy shoes or lunch. Of course, every living man, first of all, is concerned about his family's financial situation, and then in second place, to do his job in a safe and honorable manner. I propose amendments and additions to the Law of Police and the Law of Defence and the Law of the Army. I'm going to ask you a question, it's not directly related to this subject, and I'd like you to answer me, why don't we delete Article 172 point 2. The law on the police, because that member is denied prejudgment of innocence? I'd like you to answer me if there's any valid reason. I didn't ask that through parliamentary questions, so I didn't even get an answer, but it was a distance from the subject. I'd like to know, not because of me, not because of you, not because of the DS opposition, you're the government, but because of members of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defense. I don't really want to talk anymore about all the members of the Serbian Army living in an extremely difficult situation, as well as members of the ministry. Only in Croatia is the salary of a sergeant, the average salary of a sergeant of 900 euros. A guide in Serbia has lower profits than the average profit in Serbia. How do you think with that financial situation they provide 500 euros per square square or you 40,000 euros to buy an 80 square-square apartment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36149	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. No matter what party elections are in them, Mr. Chairman, you should not have allowed the previous speaker to talk about buns, snacks, and I don't know what. A team before the first phase of 1.570 is on the agenda, let's not make any mistakes, apartments for the security authorities. That's about seven billion. The speaker who violated dignity spent four billion more than he was allowed during his time as president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality. It's in 900 apartments. That soldiers and police officers know where their apartments are, 900 apartments only for embezzlement in Smederjevska Palanca, his boss, and you have allowed him to violate dignity, in a people known as the grab of money, Dragan Sutanovac is in residential units good millions of euros. That's 25 extra apartments. There's only five, six apartments on his hands. Every suit he sewed was worth at least one apartment. These are, gentlemen of the officers, gentlemen of the army, gentlemen of the police, your apartments. Of course, Croatia has an average salary of 900 euros because they did not have DS to rule for 12 years. Thank you, and I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36151	I believe, colleague Risticevic, that I have not broken any provisions. You don't want the assembly to declare itself in voting day. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36152	Thank you. First of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, salaries in the military and police are higher than ever in the previous period, so, after the increase that was on two occasions, significantly higher than in 2014, 2012, 2010, 2009, etc. That's a fact. Are they enough, would we want them to be bigger? Of course that's why the government is working to make sure that this year or next, depending on the financial indicators, which are really really good now, we allow another increase in the security services, so that we can further raise these people's receipts. Security officers pleaded on the basis of the questionnaires. They knew the indicative value of the squares that would be offered, and these people declared themselves able to bear that, with their salaries and salaries of their spouses, they financed under favourable conditions, therefore, under a subsidized price, which in some cities, so we defined 500 euros as the highest price, would be 400, 420 or 350 euros per square metre, so that they could finance and pay off with the plan, with the agreement with the financial institutions that would give the most favourable offers, they could literally endure and finance. As for concern, of course we were worried. We've been worried since 2012, because soldiers and cops didn't have enough equipment, no weapons, no techniques, no buildings, which our military air force was onto, which was at our level of the Stone Age, which our uniforms and equipment were non-existent, which we both had vehicles in both the police and the military since the time I didn't know when, the flag of the vehicles from the '80s and the '90s, which was all dysfunctional and which didn't look good in the eye, and in terms of defense, it was catastrophic. So we've done everything in the military and the police, and the salaries, to get new uniforms, new boots, new vehicles, new war techniques, new aviation, new equipment and weapons, to make sure that both the military and police exist, first and foremost, in the interest of Serbian citizens, so that their role can be implemented in the territory of all Serbia and we guarantee the safety and security of our people, and on the other hand to raise the standard which, which was not adequately resolved in the previous period, we are now deciding to help the police and the soldiers and other people in the security service, that their families also have some kind of security and resolution of all social issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36153	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36154	Thank you, Chairman. The replica is about a lot of nonsense that the speaker across the street brought me out earlier. Let's try some order to establish. He says tens of thousands of members of the Army, the police have no settled housing issues. Yeah, they don't. They have no settled housing issues because of you, because of your authority, because of a decade in which the government exercised members of his party and destroyed the future of all Serbian citizens, thus also members of the military and police. They left 400,000 people without their jobs and Tadic, and Pajtic, and Gilas, and Sutanovac, and so did he. He says empty benches across the street, thinking of us. I really don't know, and I'd like to ask if the camera can show what the concept of empty benches means, both in principle debate and today. It's probably about relations in their party, no less parties, no more clans and electricity. It's about that boycott he was talking about. When it comes to the pay of members of the Serbian Army and police, just don't let him ask that kind of question, because he doesn't know anything about it himself, lives in his own parallel world with a specific parallel view of prices and wages. We already know how much his shoes cost him, we've talked about it a few times, and just don't let him worry about the salaries of members of the Serbian Army and the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36155	According to the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36156	Thank you very much. Once again, the discussion has strayed from what is the subject of this law, and many have used it, so that I should join this custom and the minister said earlier that the military and the police were once without ammunition, without money, without anything. Well, let me tell you two historical truths. At the end of 2000, in the south of Serbia in the municipality of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, an armed rebellion of Albanians began, and so on. The Presevo army, Bujanovac and Medvedje and that rebellion were stifled and finally resolved in 2001 and it is the only victory of the domestic security forces from 1945 to today. Also, in 2003, police participated significantly, along with the prosecutor's office in the Sabe action, when it was practically reset to zero Serbian crime, and it was done with equipment, with people, with people who had courage, professionalism, desire and political ambience to be able to do their job properly. Therefore, it is inconclusive to say that there was then no means for police and military work in that first case, because I repeat, it was the first successful task of 1945 to today. Unfortunately, I'm not happy about it at all, but unfortunately it's a cruel truth, and I don't want to talk about "Sabbe" action again, because I feel nervous about the work of my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36157	Right to the replica of Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36158	When we talk about equipment and techniques, there are precise indicators when this equipment and technique is purchased. What was bought until 2000, which has been bought since 2000, which year for which unit and which one they intend to buy. When you come to power in 2012 and find that the Air Force is standing in your parking lot, it can serve children in museums, then the answer goes today, it flies, today it flies. Look, let's say, helicopter units, I can tell you that. Look at how many helicopters are flying today, how many MUP helicopters are flying today, how many were flying five years ago. Look, also in the army as well as MiG-29 was right and flew, let's say in 2010, how right MiG is and flies today. Look, don't let it be me telling you. Six new MiG-29s have been purchased. So, these MiG-29s will be operational when the latest modernization is done in the system that can best be done for MIG-29M. So that's the best modernization that can be done. I'm sorry, someone was worried that we might have something. Why wasn't that six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11 years ago? What was flying in 2006 and 2007? What plane was that flying? On the other hand, let's analyze what the situation was in the military units when the rash began after leaving the recruiting, say, from the moment I was set up to say, professional armies, when the rapes of the troops began that they didn't want to go to the military first, that no one wanted to be an officer or an officer, that the number was reduced dramatically and that the operational capabilities or operational capabilities of the military and the police were so low that it was a real miracle that it was doing anything at all. The state of the tech, the police, I could talk for hours, unfortunately I don't have that kind of time. It means that since 2000, there's been very little to get for the police. Very little, almost nothing. Look at the state that the fact Generations passed, by 2014, seven or eight generations of the Centre for Basic Police Training, without the use of automatic weapons. These people didn't know until 2014, when I gave back my automatic weapons training, they didn't know what an automatic rifle looked like. They didn't see her, they didn't have her in training. Then we should say they will be. Well, those who participated in the resolution in 2000, 2001, were the ones who were equipped before that. They did not receive any equipment or 2000 in 2001, so they did so thanks to the enormous equipment and did not gain experience from January to December 2000. They gained experience before that, thanks to those people who were serious professionals. They were thanked both in the military and in the police by being kicked out of the military and the police and retired in a brutal way, lost everything, because they must have done their job well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36159	I thank the ministers. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36160	Thank you very much. Just to remind the minister, he's younger, so he may not remember, but I guess there are some associates who can remind him. In 2002, close to 1,000 cars were purchased for the needs of Serbian police. If I'm not mistaken, it was pejoi and fichet. New uniforms were introduced to Serbian police that same year. Ask around, and you can Google it, that's the general known information. Nebojsa Stefanovic: How many pejoa? A lot. As long as you don't throw it away, it's the same nice gesture. An older man, don't throw it away. So, it's fully equipped with police cars, brand-new uniforms for all the families of the police, new short pipes, new long pipes. For the first time, ask the cops, you don't know it, but to tell you "Glock" guns, most appreciated for the needs of some services. So it was the time of 2001, 2002, 2003, when Serbian police were very pleased with their status and this was shown and this is still showing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36161	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36162	I don't want to diminish the efforts of people who were doing it for the police at the time, I appreciate someone who got a car for the police, because it's a good thing and I never want to say that someone who put something on did a bad job. All I'm saying is that these vehicles have been purchased about a third of what we've acquired in the last two years. A third. Look at the age of the vehicles using the 92 intervention units. If they didn't get something from donations, local self-government, used vehicles that were falling apart, they passed 300, 400, 500 thousand. I visit these people every day. I'm not a parlour minister, like some of them were, I visit people every day. I'm going to training with Centro for basic police training. I'm going to the Academy. I'm going to the intervention unit. I've had at least 10 or 11 meetings this year with the gendarmes, at least a dozen with the CIA people. In every police department, I've been visiting every police station and I've talked to thousands of people this year and last year, personally, directly, one at a time. He answered their questions, listened to what they said to me, and when it was awkward and when they complained about boots and everything. Not everything is ideal, but ask the people on the street what their fleet looks like today, what it looked like seven, eight, nine, ten years ago. Ask them what kind of vehicles and other vehicles were in their exploitation. How pleased they are with their behavior here and there. As for equipment and weapons, it was "Glocks", just to count them on the fingers of one hand. They got some, here and there. Mostly on a friend line, or if they were to guard some high-ranking officials, well, they don't have a lot of "CZ 99" weight. These “CZ 99” have not been changed, and today many, those old ones, have passed many situations back 10, 15 years. So, as far as equipment and weapons are concerned, and as far as the military is concerned, it's only a disaster, a disaster. That and what was on the plane could only be in the hangars, none could be blown up. It's a disaster. As far as tanks are concerned, the catastrophic state. Everything on paper wonderfully, when you have to light it, it can't. Recharge with equipment, ammunition, missiles, fuel catastrophic. It's much better today. Is it ideal? It's not ideal, but it's much better than it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36163	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36164	Article 27. I ask the chairman to apply Article 105 and return to the subject we need to discuss. I don't know where this is going. So, simply, this has turned into a dialogue between those people who shouldn't speak and us who have submitted certain amendments. Please stop. The Rules of Procedure aren't as bad as it's used badly. Apply Article 105, 106, and everything will be fine. Please have the session return to its currents. This doesn't look like anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36165	I believe, colleague Jokic, that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure and it is only natural that during the debate, a little wider MPs discuss a particular topic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Mihailo Jokic: No. No, okay. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I patiently waited to receive my word because my colleague, the farmer, tried hard to rejuvenate the dignity of the National Assembly. Namely, he excelled the action “Sabela, ” and you allowed it. The "Sabbe" action stemmed from an anti-constitutional declaration of state of emergency. It was introduced in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, instead of in its work, it has a colleague who knows it and knows it here. It was forbidden to impose an emergency on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Sabbe's action combined two operations, one from the state of emergency, the other from the war, which was also banned. A lot of cops knocked out the soles, at 12,000 homes and flats were thrown down the door with their feet. Only 3,000 applications have been filed, and I think a little less than a hundred have been processed. I don't know how condemned it is, very little or almost no one. You're the chairman and you let him talk about the efficiency of it. It wasn't me, nor did any of my colleagues here bathe in Schiller's. I wasn't the pool guard at Schiller's. I did not visit any of my colleagues, I did not visit Spasojevic in prison, godfather, Simovic brothers, etc. To visit that my fellow farmer at the time, when they were extradited, was the federal police minister, we didn't do it. And in the end, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is even more severe, because it was done by a person who had just squandered 525 officers' equipment and 14 of their apartments on the vineyard alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36167	Thank you. (The same answer I gave. You don't want to, all right. By amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36168	Thank you. I think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know the truth, as the MPs know, and especially the Ministry of Defence, all those people who will apply or who want to have a roof over their heads. I don't think it's good here that, using day-to-day political situations, we lower the level and the equipment and morals of both our armies and the police. It is not the police of Serbia or the SNS police, as was neither the Democratic Party, such as our army, the army of any political party. These are serious, brave, educated people doing their job under extremely difficult circumstances. I only wish for what the minister said, in 2010, the ministers could check, there were between 30 and 40 aircraft flying, including five MiGs, as well as eagle planes, as well as G4 planes. So it's a complete lie that in 2010, there were no aircraft, I don't blame you, but I resent the one who told you that, and that's probably the defence minister who shows nothing but hatred for the opposition. Based on what you've also said here what was done in the military while DS was running the system, here's just some of the data. First of all, there's been a purchase of 100 jeeps of Discovere, 18 planes of Last, an Embryer plane was purchased, sniper rifles were purchased, parachutes were purchased, air-air rockets were purchased for MiG 29, because if you say we didn't have planes, then why would someone buy MiGs for airplanes 29. And what may be more important than that is that the South Military Base was built, and you know that the South Military Base, near Bujanovac, serves to train members of multinational operations, who participate in multinational operations not only from Serbia and the region, but from all over Europe. 5,000 apartments were built. Five thousand apartments, and we're talking about 1,000 apartments that might be built, and we know that what's promised, 380 euros per square, isn't fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36169	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36170	Of course the military and the police aren't party. There is one important difference, whether these people are taken care of or not. They know that after all. It doesn't matter what you or I say about this pay phone, people who work there know that. It's enough for me both in the army and in the police who took care of it, who wasn't with them, who wasn't with them, who was worried about cutting off 500 tanks, hoodies and cannons and who didn't get them any tanks and cannons for their mandate, none. You know, when you buy one cannon, you say -- here, I bought one cannon, one armored transport I took, here, nothing else I didn't, here's one armored transporter, let people have at least one that when they go into those actions, that at least they don't worry that they're going to be pierced by that 12/7 grain that can drill every transporter, how much care they had, etc. They know who he is. They know people who got them new techniques, new planes, new armored transports both in the military and in the police, who bought them new vehicles, who bought them ballistics protection, who got them equipment in other units that serve some more sophisticated shops, who made life easier for them in different ways. So eight MiG 29 missiles were purchased during that period, eight missiles. That's a fantastic result. About one a year. Great. Eight MiG 29 missiles, exactly eight. So it's just an amazing number, I don't know how we could ever exceed that. We got about as many planes as we got that rocket back then. So there's nothing to add. As for four MiG 29 we had in that period, one or two of which was one, one was a long time before the drop caps for the catapult seat was purchased, five MiG 29 to 2000, one fell in 2000 since then. So the four were of which one was disabled and used mostly to take down parts for these others. So, two to three were flying. That was our military air force. That's it. And how many flights did pilots know that? As far as the police are concerned, I don't want to say anything special. I think I said something. I want to tell you that thanks to the reviving of our defence industry, we are in a position today to equip units and armies and police with a domestic armored transporter and "Lazar" and "Milos". Is that good progress? I think so, I think there's still room for improvement. We've got new Lore hoodies, we've got a new technique that we've managed to strengthen our defense forces. Today, we successfully export this weapon and make revenue for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36171	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36172	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is those who have ruined this country who are now coming out of the session who are unlikely to hear what they assume that my colleagues and I will still have a lot to tell them, and that is that everyone has been known who and how he has armed his friends since 5 October 2000, just robbing police stations in Belgrade and Serbia. How many Kalashnikovs were stolen only from a nearby police station on the street of Mother Jevrosima, so let's remember where all these Kalashnikovs ended up. In fact, it was these domiciles that equipped the clans and their mob friends on the streets of Belgrade since 2000, and they haven't equipped the police and the military. It was all preparations just on October 5th for the robbery, for the kidnapping and destruction of Serbia, where only the mafia, along with the tycoons and the political class, lived better from 2000 to 2012. Only the police, I will remind you, led by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic in the previous year seized, if I am not mistaken, correct me, 4.1 tonnes of drugs on the streets of the Republic of Serbia, thereby reducing the possibility of poisoning our children, while some of the drugs from the banks in Serbia stood up and then reselled and sold with their friends on the streets of Serbia. Now, that time will never happen again in Serbia. Today in Serbia, police are equipped with state-of-the-art equipment today to monitor what those who try or break the law, arrest them and bring them to justice, today more mobsters do not bring in police officers, don't legitimize them, don't control them, today the state has control over all those who could potentially break the law, and those who violate them bring him to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36173	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, was the amendment submitted by MP Petar Jojic? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Comrade Mandic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law is good and it is good that it is done to regulate apartments in this way for all the services listed in Article 1. Indeed, both the military and the security officers and the police and the criminal sanctions administration deserve to be supplied with apartments in this way. However, there are two problems. Tens of thousands of people will compete for those apartments, and a thousand, two, three apartments will be built. Of course, in order to greatly sanction this, I propose, and so far, local communities should somehow supply these people with apartments, or go out in the meetings of these people who really deserve these honored apartments. For years now, in Belgrade alone at the Hotel "Bristol" 20 years after the war, mostly pensioners, the armies are in the rooms of the Hotel "Bristol", in the heart of Belgrade on water, Savamolaj. While from 2000 to today, not only in Belgrade, but in other local communities, apartments have been bought out for bazaar money. Serbia is a serious country. Serious countries should take care of these people and solve their housing problem. The other problem is fighters. No law has been passed on fighters and people who participated in all three wars, in Croatia, Bosnia and Serbia, or in Kosovo, and it is the reserve and members of the Army that did not regulate their apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36175	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ristic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS does not dispute that this bill is of paramount importance for strengthening the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we want to point out the failures made by the Government in this proposal to avoid any kind of abuse later. The first thing I want to draw attention to is the definition of this bill that actually has no housing issue solved. Among other things, it was the member who had given effect to this law could have had an apartment, but who had sold it, so until the day of entry into force of this law he could have had an apartment, but he sold it. And the one who sold it a day later wasn't provided. So, the one who sold the apartment last Friday, last month, today, he'll be living unsecured and he'll be able to compete neatly in a month, when we adopt this law. We see that this law is known in public, we see that when members of the public knew, when they signed, competed, said they were interested in what the price would be, that such a law was being prepared, so he's known in public, and that's why my suggestion is to review this date. There are few apartments, he's very interested, and we need to sharpen some measures. In my opinion, this date has to move up to a year back when he could alienate the apartment and at the earliest on 16 November of last year, when the government commission was formed. Also, it must be examined and the origin of that sold apartment, because nowhere in the law has it been defined that a member who once got an apartment from the military, so the same alien can't compete now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36177	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36178	I just want to tell you, the apartments have enough, not a little, so, for anyone who competes. Can everyone handle it in a month? I can't, it's impossible. But also, these people have 15-20 years of unresolved housing issues. We've taken the system now to solve this problem. So, I understand it's always better if they could move in tomorrow morning and celebrate the move and everything is great, but it's unrealistic, we could talk fairy tales here. So what's important is enough apartments for everyone, absolutely enough. What you asked me was the same thing we were thinking about. There's got to be a cross-section sometimes. If we say a year, why a year? If we say a year, we'll go to the courts to get people to interpret that they had to sell it because of the disease in the family, to solve that money something. Then do we discriminate against them? It's a pain We'd have the actual years of proof and who knows what would come out of it. I agree, I'd like it to be an ideal model to say, but also these people who have applied, and there's a kind of unknown in them, because no apartment has been built yet so that they can say they've moved in first. So he would have to risk, to gamble, to sell his apartment and to risk when he gets this new one, meaning, in that period to live as a tenant, that what he almost certainly does, in the end, there is no model that we can say – well, that's ideal, seven months and 15 days or years or three years. Someone will always come and say, what, I sold the day before, can you extend another month in advance, backwards? I agree that there is no possibility that we can find an absolutely ideal solution that will move all doubts away. We think this is the fairest thing, that, on the actual day of entry into force of this law, these measures and actions begin and that, in fact, from today on, we begin this new practice of housing. We'll see, of course, what we can do. What I've already spoken to my colleagues from the Department of Construction, our imperative will be to press all those from the Civil Engineering Directorate this year, from the CIP. Of course, we already have good contacts with people from local self-government that, in fact, all of the things about planning documentation, building permits, and for the start of construction, we start now, so that within a year and a half, two years, we can finish at least 1,500 or 2,000 apartments, maybe more, so to start, depends on how much, if we start, if they're favourable building conditions, we can finish in two years and 5,000. So that's something we can do. So it will certainly depend on our work and there is no esquivating responsibility, so there are all those who are in the decision-making process and working on this one will have to work hard to pay off this project. If we work 1,000 apartments a year, it won't end for 20 years. So our goal is to make this happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36179	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradović. Come on in, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36180	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, co-workers of the second ministry, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, helps all. I felt it was very important to break a very bad practice in Serbia, to be ashamed that we are Serbs, to be ashamed of the national prefixes in the names of public institutions, here, to be ashamed and to forget in a way that we also define the members of our security forces. Here it is said in the title of this law, that it is a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces. It is not said which and whose members of security forces, Serbian, Croatian, US, NATO security forces, or who knows what security forces. That is why in this amendment we clearly propose to add the word of Serbian security forces, or in other amendments we propose that it be members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, but I do not see why they should be ashamed of this national prefix. For example, we are the Serbian Army, we are not the Serbian military, we have Serbian radio television, we do not have Serbian radio television. I've been torturing this pain ever since I studied at the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade, where they were constantly ashamed of the national prefixes in key courses at our university. Well, that's how we study folk literature, not what people say. Well, we're studying medieval literature, and there's no telling which people. Why not Serbian folk literature, why not, Serbian medieval literature, why not, therefore, Serbian security forces. Mr. Minister, it's time for you to accept this amendment, to break it up, whether it's a shame, whether it's a avoidance, whether for any reason we simply mustn't say in Serbia that we are Serbs, that we are proud of it, here's a chance to start to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36181	First at the replica of Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36182	Of course, we are absolutely proud of all the members of our country's security forces, referring to the Republic of Serbia, and there it is quite clear. So, all the people and members of both the Serbian people and all the other and national minorities, and the people living in the Republic of Serbia and its loyal citizens and members of the security forces who side by side and fought to preserve the safety and security of all our citizens. We are showing by this very law how grateful we are to them, how proud we are. This law shows how much we appreciate their work, their new equipment, new weapons, ammunition, apartments, better salaries, how much we think about these people, how grateful we are for everything they've done for Serbia. There is no doubt that it refers to our country's security, absolutely applies to them, and the law itself defines exactly the territory of the Republic of Serbia and we considered it unnecessary to highlight it in particular, not to refer to anyone else, but to the people of the Ministry of Defence, the BIA, and, of course, the pensioners of those institutions, regardless of when they served in them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36183	By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36184	Dear Mr. Minister, you have disappointed me. I expected you to accept this amendment at first and say – here, from the opposition come constructive proposals, I agree with the opinion of a respected opposition colleague, and indeed members of our security forces should be called members of the Serbian security forces. I don't know whose members they are, right, they're some other members or Serbian security forces. I don't see why you're avoiding it in the name of the law, in the title of the law, are we ashamed that these are our Serbian security forces? This has nothing to do with the fact that these security forces are made up of members and national minorities. We here at the House of the National Assembly have proposed a declaration of special honor to all non-Serb citizens who gave their lives for freedom in all the country wars in 1991 to 1999. So we highly appreciate members of the national minorities, so all the citizens of Serbia who fought for this country. But, let me, this is the state of the Serbian people and allow here a national prefix shouldn't be something we're ashamed of. You may mention it somewhere in some member of the law, but why not mention it in the title of the law. What security force? We also offered you an alternative – the security force of the Republic of Serbia, but I did not propose such an amendment because I consider it and I have fought for it my whole life not to be ashamed that we are Serbs. So, Serbian security forces. What's the matter? Is there anyone here in this House of the National Assembly that he finds it controversial? Is there anyone who lives in Serbia that has something against the Serbs and the Serb people, against the Serb security forces, against the Serb military, against Serbian radio television, against Serbian folk literature. So here's the dilemma, can we say in Serbia that we are Serbs, we can add a national prefix to our public institutions, and also to the titles of the law, or should we always be ashamed of something. We're either Yugoslav, or we're communists, or we're Euro Unions, or we have to, I don't know, get in touch with the NATO Pact and the EU, or we have to hang out with another Serbia and I have no idea what kind of civilist layer of this society. So, is there an opportunity here to say, excuse me, these are Serbian security forces, such as the US security forces, such as the Croatian security forces. You think Americans, Croats, Germans, Jews or Russians are ashamed to put on a national prefix. Well, they don't come up with it. There's Croatian television. So, it wasn't Croatian television, it was Croatian radio television. So the national prefix is normal. Like Deutsche Bank, not the Federal Bank of Germany, but the German Bank. So, what's the problem in Serbia, so as long as that fear is more self-censorship. As long as the pressure both internal and external that we must not express ourselves as Serbs in the 21st century and that our public institutions cannot have a national prefix. Mr. Minister, if you agree with me, then you accept this amendment nicely and prove that you, at least as an individual or a member of this government, or a government in general, have no problem with that national prefix - Serbian. So, Serbian security forces, Serbian television, the Serbian Army. In the state of Serbia, it's a perfectly normal thing. Excuse me, how long before we're ashamed of ourselves. Do we owe someone something? Did we do something wrong about someone? Where do national minorities live best, not in the Balkans, but in minors across Europe? In Serbia. Does anyone have any problem expressing themselves with their religious and national differences in Serbia? There's no problem. We have a Serbian problem. We Serbs in Serbia have a problem that is not sufficiently respected by our national identity, our tradition, our culture, our faith, our system of moral values, in our country is not sufficiently respected. So we Serbs are the most vulnerable national community in our state of Serbia, we Serbs, because whenever we can do our damage, and everyone else is respected until the majority Serb people are respected. Please, Mr. Minister, prove that this is not the case and accept this amendment where security forces in Serbia will be called members of the Serbian security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36185	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36186	I have no objection to the title of members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, as we have put it everywhere in all members to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. You in the Constitution have defined that our army is called the Army of Serbia, even during the time of the Kingdom was called the Kingdom of Serbia, it wasn't the royal Serb army, or the Serb army was the Army of the Kingdom of Serbia, even at that time. Today, you have defined in the Constitution the Army of Serbia, not even the Republic of Serbia or any other prefix, but the Army of Serbia. So, we have to stick to one general normative, and when we're working on making legal acts, we have to bring them into line with everything that our legal system and our state-of-the-art system predicts. So, in our Constitution, in our laws, it's like the concept of Serbia's Army, where the fact system of security of the Republic of Serbia or Serbia, is something that is completely clear and acceptable. After all, no one here is ashamed of the Serbian people, I am a member of that people. I don't mind, far away, we're all proud of it, just as we're proud to have members of other nations and national minorities in our ranks. So that's something that's the quality of Serbia, something that's very important and good for us. We're proud and we point that out. That doesn't stand out with a title or one word. That's what works are for. This is shown when you celebrate important historical moments in the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the victory of the Serbian people over all the oppressors, the aggressors, when you are not ashamed to mention NATO aggression, when you are not ashamed to mention and win the Second World War, or win the First World War, when you are not ashamed to celebrate those moments and of course when you provide people who work both in the police of Serbia and Serbia and in the BIA, when you provide them with a better standard of living, apartments, equipment, vehicles, all of which are to have, thus showing that you appreciate, respect, not only by changing one letter. They won't live better if there's one or two words more or less in this title, they'll live better if we apply this law, what we intend, and if we make sure that what it says here is their daily life and reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36187	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36188	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I had to report on this amendment, given that the previous speaker's position is not only anti-constitutional, but is deeply political and morally problematic. The very fact that the previous speaker called for Croatia's experience is very problematic, because this very experience of Croatia has this negative effect and is problematic on the part of the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic of Croatia has just made an ethnically clean country in their possession at the expense of the Serb people, at the expense of 250,000 expelled and killed people in the actions "Blash" and "Storm". Therefore, they can write Croatian RTV, the Croatian Army and put such a prefix, the Republic of Serbia and institutions in the Republic of Serbia, cannot do that. For us, the role model and those we can look up to and work with most in the domain of partnership in politics and economy are Germany, Austria, and not Croatia. On the other hand, we are talking about someone being ashamed of the prefix - Serbian, which I refuse with great and strong indignity, because here it was tried to honor this government and the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state and Minister Stefanovic that they did not want to put the prefix - Serbian, is that those who first started to mark the pogrom of Serbs in Republika Srpska, in the action "Blesk" and "Storm", are ashamed, are we ashamed, those who inherit anti-fascist and who we started to publicly, in front of the whole world, lead politics and are not ashamed of the anti-fascist traditions of the Serb people, and of all other people who live in the Republic of Serbia. I will remind the previous speaker and the anti-fascist armies in World War II did not even have the prefix - the Serbian, the People's and Liberation Army of Yugoslavia, nor the Yugoslav army in the country, but included respect for both members of the Serb people and members of all those nations who fought against the Nazis and who fought against the pogroms of Serbs, Jews, Roma and all that this evil meant during World War II. I think this is about a kind of replacement of thesis. This is about prefixes, this is about linguistic and syntagmic things, and it's not about being members of police forces or security forces, that in the past few years a law has been passed, so we voted in favour of the Police Act, which provides career advancement. Minister Stefanovic and his team have made such an ambience that police now have normal equipment, that he can normally work, that he can work normally, that he can fight organised crime and corruption hard. We are now talking about prefixes, we are now talking about what it will be called, instead of talking about how we should improve and how we can all help members of the police force get apartments, increase their standard of living, for one single reason only, in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the very Serbian people, which you speak of in such a warm manner and in every sentence. But it will not improve the position of members of police forces, nor anyone in this country because we will put some prefix in some legal solution, but because we will build apartments, because we will build roads, because we will increase GDP, because we will be better geopolitically positioned, because we will earn a few dozen million euros, as we have done in several previous days, since the finer for and Belgrade was a kind of capital of Europe where thousands of tourists from all parts of Europe have merged. It is patriotism and that is what this Government of the Republic of Serbia, which Mr. Vukic, President of the Republic of Serbia, defines as a major and basic interest, modernisation, better life, a better standard. It's patriotism, not prefix and not empty words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36189	Thank you. By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36190	Dear colleagues and respected citizens, Serbia failed as a state, because it was led by politicians who thought of it as a respected counterpart, Vladimir Marinkovic. So whenever they could, they gave up Serbian national interest, Serbian national identity and this prefix -- Serbian. Whenever they could, when they were pressed and were willing to sacrifice everything that was Serbian, for some utopian projects of ideology. First the Serbs gave up everything that was Serbian to enter Yugoslav, I don't know what kind of brotherhood and unity. Then they gave up everything that was Serbian to enter the communist brotherhood and unity. And today, we are asked to give up everything that is Serbian, to join the European brotherhood and unity, or the Euro-Union brotherhood and unity, as we call it. So this idea that it doesn't matter -- Serbian, you believe, is a tragic political idea. It's a political idea that's cost us a lot in the last 100 years. Every time we said historically, it doesn't matter - Serbian, we ended up in caves, we ended up in a wreck of various Utopias from Yugoslav to communists who only got hit by the head of the Serbian people. A colleague Marinkovic, of course, quoted the Croats, perfectly rightly, but he forgot the U.S. and the genocide that the Americans had done over the indigenous population there, so he did not give the example of how in America he held onto that American and national, that there must be an American flag in the frame of every film, that children in school must sing hymns and raise flags. Well, he didn't set that example as an example of patriotism. What doesn't the Americans care about the economy and the better life and the building of apartments? So what do they have to do with patriotism? Because it's important, because in names it's put everywhere - American and we can't - Serbian, should we put it? To the title of the law, and for what? Because someone's ashamed because someone's afraid that someone doesn't mind, because, I don't know, he's used to it through Yugoslavism, through communism, and the EU's servitude that everything that's Serbian should go into another plan, and constantly believe in some new utopia and new ideologies? The time has come for someone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to perform differently and to say, we are fed up with Yugoslavism, communism, Eurointegration and all the utopias that cost us dearly. So, Serbian national interest, Serbian national identity, that's the topic, not this fine for the Eurolige. It's not patriotism, it may be tourism, at best. Patriotism is something else. Patriotism is when you're not ashamed of yourself and your own, when you defend everywhere and in every place of your Serbian, national and state interests. We defend them in the title of the law. So security forces in Serbia are Serbian security forces. If you don't want to put it on, here, let the citizens of Serbia assess why. Is that some kind of excessive demand on our part? Is that something that's not constructive? What's the problem with that? Why don't you accept this amendment as power? What does it bother to add a word to the security forces – Serbian security forces? Can't it be "Serbian"? Explain to the people what he can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36191	I have to congratulate you on something. You've caused three replicas. First to mention the name of counterpart Marinkovic, then Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, due to the mention of SNS Aleksandar Markovic. George Komlensky, are you? (Jorge Komlenski: By amendment. We're going in a row. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36192	This is an interesting debate that I suppose needs to show the citizens how we give up some of our identity, belonging to the people, and I understand that from the position Mr. Obradovic represents. It is luxuriant for his political option, he must fight for certain political points and for some political position in our society. But what is a fact and what is true, you in the United States have an army of the United States. America and Brazil, that's the continent, one's South America, one's North. Then it would have to be - North American, to be precise. But then it's the Canadian army. So, as every country writes -- the United States Army, and so do we -- the Army of Serbia. That's what the Constitution predicted. Until the Constitution changes and writes – the Serbian army, we are obliged to respect the highest legal act of our country. It's just like that. So there was once an army of the Kingdom of Serbia, not a Serbian royal army or a royal Serb army. It's a state element, belongs to a state and a state called Serbia. If it were called "Serbian", then it could be linguistically complex. We have the Republic of Serbia as our country and the Constitution has defined the Army of the Republic of Serbia. It has nothing to do with pride, belongings, etc. He won't say anything to make anyone prouder. We show whether we are proud and whether we respect our traditions in other ways, whether we care for the people of the security sector, whether we respect our marking of the day when as a Serbian people we have achieved some historicly significant victories for our country, when we have built our identity, whether we are proud of all those people in our history who have built our country as Serbia, as a country where the Serbian people are majority and no one disputes it. There is no one who has the opportunity to interpret it in any way differently. I have no objection to the name of this law – building apartments for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia. I couldn't agree more, and I'm willing to accept that amendment if there is one. So, I don't have any problem with that. Because each member is said to be – this is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's Army, Serbia's security force, the Republic of Serbia, etc. So everywhere it is mentioned that it refers to our country, that our country is an investor, for its security forces. So it's quite clear. We have to build something based on the Constitution, on law, on law. Of course, we should also mark all those important historical national dates, as other peoples do, which are important for Serbs living in our country and to be proud of what Serbs as a people have done, built, since coming to the Balkan Peninsula, building in difficult conditions and difficult times, together with others, a common future. We have our own country which is independent, which is called the Republic of Serbia, and I think it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36193	Thank you. To mention the name, the right to replica, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36194	Thank you, Your Honor. I am proud that after almost 12 years, perhaps more, Serbia does not lead politics either in Germany, in Russia, in the United States, or in the reference, nor does it send the agenda of the government or any other institution to foreign ambassadors, nor does it ask them for what defines its political, social and economic development. So, Serbia is leading Serbian politics and I think it is one of the greatest successes of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic. The previous speaker, my esteemed colleague Obradovic, said and mentioned utopia and what defines and does this government and most in parliament, and I would agree with it only in one way – if we were two different worlds, completely two different concepts of the Republic of Serbia. This concept and policy led by President Vukic speaks clearly about where Serbia should go, what its vision should be and what its objectives should be. And that policy is supported by more than 60% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I belong to this world that implies Serbia that has good relations with both EU countries and the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation and South Korea and the Middle East countries and therefore Serbia will have and will have over two billion euros of foreign investment last year, this year estimated at three billion. So the fundamental goal of our policy is for us citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their better lives. That policy that the previous speaker propagated, from it, we have seen what benefits citizens can and can benefit from the Republic of Serbia – nothing, just isolation and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36195	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36196	You finally gave me your word, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for that, you are very generous. None of us are ashamed of being a Serb. We have absolutely no reason to be ashamed that we are Serbs, nor prefixes -- Serbian. But we are also ashamed of some of the actions of the previous speaker. We are ashamed of it when it advocates Latvian ideology, or at least the vast majority are ashamed of it. We're ashamed, and that's what I believe is a collective sense of shame, when it attacks women, and mostly it attacks women. We are also ashamed when he brings his various political partners here to the Assembly, Pernar, for example, who he brought right here to the House of the National Assembly, and then went there to worship in Blyburg, then those Bulgarian political representatives, who advocate to join some Serbian municipalities and cities in Bulgaria. There. That's what we're ashamed of. So we have no reason to be ashamed of being Serbian or prefix Serbian. I also want to urge the previous speaker to learn to accentuate words in Serbian for the beginning. You know, in the Serbian people, it's already become a joke of his famous saying -- where you run, what you run, etc. There is one more question, and that is the difference between tourism and patriotism. Here, for example, the Hilandar monastery. The previous speaker could learn that difference in this case, since only as a tourist can go to the Hilandar monastery. It's the only property after all he's done, in which he can appear at the Hilandar monastery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36197	Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36198	Thank you, Chairman. If you weren't ashamed of that prefix "Serbian", you would put it in this title of the law and call security forces in Serbia's security, but for some reason it can't go through. The minister quite caught on to this dilemma that we have set for him in this amendment duality, such as the word "run" in the standard Serbian literary language can be pronounced in two ways, but you will probably learn the professor of literature and Serbian language as you know better than I do, but it only says how unserious you are. So, we've offered the Minister two variations on how to supplement this title. One is to say - members of the security force of the Republic of Serbia and to avoid the word of the Serbian and other variant, which is my amendment, to say -- members of the Serbian security forces. You see how handsomely the minister has hooked up and defined himself for this more comfortable and easier variant? Immediately accepts the amendment – the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, just so that they are not Serbian security forces, because, who knows, may be called by an ambassador, perhaps Latina Perovic will write a column in a daily list, perhaps Sonja Licht will avoid being associated with the SNS in the future, perhaps not receive a prize for the most popular, perhaps for any other reason one of the Jewish communist heritage, which is filled with our political organisations, will be offended. So, Mr. Minister, I see no reason, if you are not ashamed, to call the Serbian security forces the Serbian security forces, not the security forces of the Republic of Serbia. So this is still a Serbian problem, and now the citizens are watching this and they see exactly how the advancers are scolding. They're like patriots, but to say Serbian security forces, it's like before, if it is, one of our Western partners will get angry. So let them get mad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36199	Right to the replica of the minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36200	I'm very famous for being afraid of what the ambassador will say to me. I don't care what any ambassador will tell me any country, I don't care. I serve my country, they can come to me to see how our co-operation with the MUP is progressing, and that's it. They can't say anything else, because they know what I'd say to them, and that's something that's this country's political stance. We are the Republic of Serbia and here we will respect the decision of what the Republic of Serbia says. What is important in this case in particular, I will no longer participate, of course in answering this, is what it says in the Constitution of our country. The Constitution of our country states - Serbia's Army; and we are obliged to respect the Constitution of our country, and we cannot write anything else that does not stand in the Constitution of the country. We can talk about who's prouder, who's not, whose ancestors participated in some defensive wars, what they brought out of these wars of honor and honesty, but what is important is that we respect the Constitution and our law, we do it. counterpart Janjusevic has submitted an amendment in which he says – members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, since the amendment already exists, I will accept the amendment and we will also resolve this dilemma, respecting whether or not we are ashamed of something, whether it is easy or not, respecting the Constitution. It is our duty here and the National Assembly and the Government to act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As I am sure that the Kingdom of Serbia was not ashamed of its Serbian army, so it was not called the Serbian Army, but called the Kingdom of Serbia Army, the Republic of Serbia is also not ashamed, but is proud of its military and police, and has called them the Army of Serbia and the police of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36201	By amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36202	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, this amendment should not be accepted for one simple reason, because it is obvious that as much as everyone from this parliamentary group but its president is trying to escape from Ljotic's fascist ideology, it is secretly coming from the gentleman who submitted this amendment. He is likely to have so much burden on the word Serbian, as Ljotic's only formation was called the Serbian State Guard, and what Serbs were and what Serbia had from becoming the prefix "Serbian". Nothing. They co-operated with the occupier, one of Marisav Petrovic's biggest exhibitors was one of the biggest occupier servants to take children to the shooting in Kragujevac. And no wonder he's right, and he's right about so many gentlemen who have submitted this amendment, when he says there's a huge communist legacy here. The communists did not do such things, the good things remained behind the communists, behind Ljotic, who spread fascism and hatred towards everyone, and most of all, nothing could remain good for his own people. Thank you. [[Bosko Obradovic: Right to Replic.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36203	You don't have a colleague, Obradovic. I don't know on what basis. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bones, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36204	It is difficult to measure and there is no instrument device that can measure someone's patriotism, so I believe that absolutely this ideological debate is pointless and that there is no point in talking about someone's patriotism, but there are reasons why we have the right to submit amendments, because we believe that after 70 years of the period where all Serbian symbols and attributes have been avoided, we have the right to ask for this and that right now there is a time when everything that can be at the pride of the Serbian army will be placed in the title of the law and in other state institutions. I do not agree with speakers who spoke before me, because there are many states that in the prefix of state institutions have their national mark and national significance. It's not just that in the East and the West, and we have here today and we have witnessed what happened in the past only in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, when people who run the Army of the Republic of Serbia expressed their national feelings. We'll remind you of the Air Force Chief's performance. I will remind you of a visit by 200 Serb military members, who visited the Serbian monasterys and Serbia's Ravna Gora on 8 May, how much noise has been raised here in parliament, how many people have been alarmed by respecting the national traditions of the Serb army from the First World War, because they continue to think that the Army of the Republic of Serbia is the Yugoslav Army and for that they have arguments as to what they think. They are not aware that Yugoslavia has passed and that such a creation will never be repeated again, but today, in the name of a sports society, you have the prefix "Yugoslav" club. So, it exists in the Serbian people and Mr. Minister, we absolutely have the right to, as you say, works but also words through this little thing can show patriotism and we believe that this would be, if you adopt this amendment, that this would be useful for raising the morals of a Serb army member. So, on this side, we absolutely believe that this amendment is correct, that it is in place and that we have the right to state our political position, precisely because of everything, especially in the past 16 years that has been done with the Serb army. So, the Serb army has been destroyed and the pride of the Serb soldier has been brought down to the lowest possible level and this is exactly the kind of thing that can repair primarily the morals and pride of a Serb soldier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36205	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Vukadinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36206	Thank you. I will also speak as a representative of the parliamentary group, and at the same time I will not spend all my time, because it is my position that we and my colleagues do not participate in the debate on amendments in principle until the way this debate is changed. Now I see that, and for the first time we have submitted an amendment to something that is the name and the first member, because the simple meaning of intervention, criticism and regrets that we have had and which I had on this bill is then manifested and that the name itself would have to be changed, that is, it would have to be extended both in the name and in the scope of this law to all civil servants. That's all I've submitted this amendment for, and that's all I'm talking about right now. I don't think it's good that the opposition colleagues, but that's our problem, right, they don't have a clear view of whether they're boycotting or not boycotting the amendment debate, but then they're gone, so now it's not clear to me whether they're boycotting or just not coming? So, I'm sitting in principle, as you know, when I'm boycotting, then I say, and then I won't be, at least not in the O.R., and I'll be, I'll be on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, if it's not over yet. Either way, I believe that even here in the O.R., and even the viewers are more interesting and interesting to listen to the debate on the state of security forces, whether it's better now in the Serbian Army or in the police or better before. It makes sense, the chairman didn't make a mistake to allow a little wider discussion, because when we talk about the Law on building apartments for members of the security forces, that is, the military and the police, then it's logical to say a word about the situation in the military and the police. So, in that sense, I don't think it's a bad thing and I would even welcome that presidency practice. On the aside that we mention security and these arguments, I will not say whether it was better to be in the military and the police sometimes or now, and whether the security of the state was better now or earlier, but I would draw attention and ask Minister Stefanovic, since he was already talking about the much better situation in the security forces and the security of the state has been increased – whether there is any comment on the news in the media and whether the news has been confirmed, even indirectly, which has been spoken very little in our public, that the group, on several occasions in late March and in the second half of March, the drones have overtooked the territory of the state of Serbia, and on several occasions, from the east to the west, above Belgrade in the low flight, several days, multiple aircraft, and that our security forces have not responded to it, and I have not noticed that our government has responded to that? They're supposed to be NATO pact aircraft, type predators. In any case, we boast so much of the improved state of security, and to such a single breach of security and sovereignty of the Serbian state has not responded, let alone had someone stopped that flight. I would love it, as we talked about it and boasted about how better things are now, to comment on Mr Stefanovic. What I've prepared myself for and what I was about to say, and I expected Mrs. Minister Zorana to do, but I see that you've been caught in that trap for a while, too. If you're confused as an authorized promoter, then especially the viewers or those to whom it applies will be confused. So, we here, dear colleagues, are talking about 1,578 apartments that cost an indicative of 64m euros. It's a quota, that's what this lex specialis refers to, and here it's a baratal, Mrs. Mihajlovic shyly, Mr. Stefanovic initially mentioned a figure of 5,203 apartments, I guess wanting to suggest that there will be enough apartments for everyone, and he repeated it. Maybe the apartments will be enough for everyone. We don't even know or at least I haven't heard enough about the interest in this first survey, how many security forces have expressed any desire, principle desire, to participate in this competition, because without it we can't judge how realistic or ambitious this is. Does it cost 5,203 apartments, whether it suits the need, the needs of security forces shown, or are these approximately available to the state in the coming period? In any case, whether it's about the wishes and needs of the security forces or the state's capabilities, this law that we're now adopting is not talking about. We will therefore have to adopt some other or some addition to this law. He only refers to these 1.578 apartments. That's just something to know. What we also learned from Mr. Stefanovic, which is why these discussions are useful, regardless of how boring they are sometimes, but I'm worried and I heard something, but it's nice that he said it honestly. I didn't understand Mrs. Mihajlovic like that. He said practically that there is no criterion for these apartments to be allocated to, said a fellow SRS, no quotas by the ministries, which may be good, okay, and no ranking list, or rank list is being made, as I understand it, you correct me if I am wrong, only on the basis of applications, or the deadline of the application, who sooner logs in, will be more on that ranking list. That sounds very unfair, unless you are right, or if that formulation is correct, quote – it will be built enough for everyone. If there's really going to be extra apartments for everyone, then it's not that important, it doesn't matter, but it's not that crucial then whoever signed up earlier. My suspicion is, therefore, it is also the meaning of this intervention, that these apartments will hardly be enough for all, the difficult material state of Serbia is such that they will provide within two or two and a half years, that all these apartments, therefore, are not these 1.578, but 5,203, this figure that figures, but figures in our discussion, rather than figures in the bill, are actually built. I would like to have that misunderstanding, if possible, to comment and answer, but the general idea of my proposal and our amendment is that, when that is the case and when it will be enough for everyone, why not expand and apply to all civil servants, because, as my colleagues said, in health care, educational workers, schools and other civil servants and civil servants from the state administration, civil servants and how they live hard, and how good it would be to be able to apply for these apartments. A team before, if the possibilities of a state are such that it can be, quote, enough for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36207	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36208	It is planned in the next phase. We first considered those people whose job might be the hardest, because they risk their lives every day. It has to start from some category. So we opted for a security system because these people's lives are really on the line and they're the ones who gave their lives when it was the hardest for Serbia, they're the ones who died and fought for the country. We have to show respect for that category of people and for what they did and what they do for our country every day. There are about 20,000 of them, along with pensioners who have expressed their wish so far, and our plan is to build a sufficient number of apartments for each of them. Apartments are not allocated, they are bought, given, of course, at subsidized prices that will not cost more than 500 euros per square metre, and can be cheaper depending on the environment in which they are built. He'll definitely be in a town somewhere... Belgrade is likely to be the most expensive because the market is that and prices are increasing. The goal is for each of these people to get an apartment according to their needs, which shows the needs of 36 to 92 square meters depending on, of course, the different factors that go into it. We've defined ourselves precisely because we're building enough for everyone not to make rank lists and thus not to enter into one unnecessary thing, because then it might happen that he applied for a 92 square-square apartment and that the ranking list condition that he can't have a bigger apartment than 60 squares, etc. The 60-square war, designed according to what we've had so far to communicate with banks, would be about 115 euros a month, significantly lower than paying rent, paying rent, renting an apartment, being tenants. They'd better pay, they'd have a lower war on that loan. So already, conditions are more favourable than to remain tenants. Be assured we'll do anything. This law does not apply to either 1500 or 5200. This law applies to everything in Article 3, in the definition of terms, which categories have the right and everything else. So it absolutely refers to all those who will apply to meet their living conditions. After all, we don't pass a law with a limited duration. We make the law so that we can solve the issue in the coming years. I hope we can expand that when this is over to those people from other parts of the state system, that we can solve their housing issues and, of course, help their standard. Soon I expect that in this year we will realize a larger number, so that we can say how successful we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36209	Thank you. You want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36210	I thank you for this explanation. You skipped, but you probably didn't find this issue of these attacks or flying unidentified aircraft over Serbia's territory in March, at the end of March of this year, which sparred over Belgrade and other Serbian cities. Anyway, let's go back to what's the basic theme, though, I say, this is more attractive maybe. You're probably right that this in principle applies to everything, in principle, but in particular the funds and this first phase refers to 1,578 apartments or cases. The projected funds are 64m euros. Now you say we have 20,000 of those who have expressed their wish. I didn't see that information. I think it's a tremendously large number and that, realistically speaking, everything and that our performances and results are much better than they are, economically, but common sense tells us that they will not be able to be fulfilled in due course, not for the mandate of this government, but for the next government as well. It will probably not be possible to meet applications, or wishes and demands, even these members of the security forces, let alone members, of all civil servants, including education, health, education. So, in that sense, I think he's too ambitious and in some way, even if he's willing to do well, he's discriminatory. So, I think this is going to be discriminatory in the end, because you say -- there's no ranking list, there's no quotas, there's no criteria, well, then eventually there's going to be who gets to apply first, and then the commission, at least let the commission that we see as a component, determine who has the right priorities. I think and end it, I won't, as I said, spend too much time here and not even my own, I think that's how you'll want to -- you don't want to, bring in evil blood and among those who have applied amongst the members of the Army and the police who intend to compete for those apartments, so, at privileged prices, you'll introduce evil blood among them. You won't be able to satisfy the aspirations of all and the opposite of some colleagues who felt that there was some Praetorian guard, the minority, that they were now making some more desirable or less desirable, and the members of these security forces are being brought in, as I said, because I think there's going to be a discrepancy between them, and then there's going to be a discrepancy between all of them on one side and all the other civil servants on the other. As for the deaths and deaths, unfortunately, both educational workers and officials and children and pensioners suffered during NATO bombing. I mean, the victims of all categories of the population, and not just members of the military and police, and even on that basis, there's no reason to single out and positively discriminate against members of the security forces, compared to all other civil servants, who could and might have the right to compete on this basis for cheaper housing. So, since it won't be enough for everyone anyway, then I suggest they return to the criteria, introduce the ranking lists, and just everything you've thrown out, and we'll see in a year or two or three years, who was right. I'd like you to be right, but it's hardly gonna be enough for everyone, I repeat and end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36211	Thank you. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36212	It'll be absolutely enough for everyone, and then there's no need for that dilemma at all. So there's no need to speculate if it's going to be, it'll be enough for everyone, we build for everyone in the initial 20,000 people, if it takes more than that, as long as it takes. So, that's the end of the story. As for the reasons of the law, what you said, that 5,000 is an approximation. So, we've given one assessment of what it's going to look like, but that's not at all questionable in law. So the reason for the law is just guidance. The law defines how the law will apply, applies to everything from now on, as far as the law applies, and I guess there's no reason not to, or sometimes there's a need to improve or perfect or something, in the sense that it's going to expand with the number of users, but that's that. As for the flyover, we had identified certain flyovers, because if we hadn't identified them, we wouldn't have known about them. So we've identified the overflights. They were never above Belgrade, they were in one part of southern Serbia. Therefore, it has been estimated that the members of the Serbian Army, with certain technical means, radar and military air, accompanied the movement of these aircraft, assessed their level of potential threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia and escorted them from our airspace. They were not shot down, because they did not assess that they existed, and they were right, it did not come to endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia, which is the operating procedure applied in other countries as well. In Belgrade, we had two or three cases of unauthorized drone management, those persons were arrested and handed over to the prosecution, therefore, to assess whether they were going to have criminal or criminal charges and they were still in the process, but this was not what I met, so it wasn't about any significant, any threat to security, it was mostly about people who didn't know it was unauthorized, that they could manage a drone without permission or that they were operating drones near buildings such as government, ministries, defences, etc., so some of the objects that are of national importance. Anyway, the police were quick to react together, somewhere with an army, somewhere without those faces being brought in. So there was no threat to security in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36213	Thank you. The title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A letter from Katarina Rakic was submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? On behalf of Article 1 of the amendment, Commissioner Branka Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member Sreto Peric submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Article 1 of the amendment in the same text was submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by Parliament, Marija Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36214	We believe that this amendment of ours can be further defined by the criteria for obtaining apartments for members of security forces, because we have one and today, poor practice in all ministries, that a huge number of government officials of the Republic of Serbia who are in V.D. status. I ask the question – are these people who are in V.D. Can they participate in this competition? Will there be the same conditions for them and for people who are in regular status in ministries employees? Practice has shown that there is an extremely large influence of partying in many ministries. Unfortunately, many human resources made in the past few years in important functions in the security sector show that party membership is primarily important from expertise. I know a lot of people with extremely high rank in the army who couldn't compete because they weren't party-like. Also today you have the post of Deputy Chief of Staff of the Army of the Republic of Serbia which is not filled, which is extremely bad for all people who are interested in the army, who are working in the military, that no man has yet been appointed to such a place, because this conflict between profession and politics is still present in the Army of the Republic of Serbia. On this side, we appeal to clarify the criteria for obtaining apartments, to resolve the status v.d. Members of the Republika Srpska Army who are employed in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, to fill the places that are necessary to be filled and thus show good will to sort things out. Also, I think there are still a lot of things in this law that are related to our amendment, but these are some basic things that have to be solved just for those people who have that status in the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36215	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36216	In terms of equal terms, there are no other than those provided for by law, therefore, its status as a member of the MUP, defence, or the Serbian Armed Forces or BIA if it is employed in this body, regardless of its position, whether it is in a position to fill the competition, whether it is in V.D. status, is it a member, let's say, who just got into a working relationship and became an example. Officer, I just came from the Center for Basic Police Training, or it's about the colonel or the general who's practically his whole life in the police force, they're exactly the same. So, with them, it doesn't affect whether he's in V.D. the status or chosen on the basis of a full term competition, performs in full capacity functions, does not affect this law. We've absolutely avoided it. As far as law enforcement is concerned, it is in that sense equal. I don't think that's gonna affect the quality of law enforcement. In principle, I agree that, of course, there are always certain procedures that last, we've made the largest number of people have nothing to do with politics, at least in the MUP. There are no minors who haven't worked, at least when I came to the ministry for 10, 15, 20 years at the MUP, and now he's somewhere in charge. These people were working at the M.O.P., we found them there, they worked there. If they've been good in the past 15 years, all regimes, they can't be wrong now just because we're in power. So, just those people have been to those places before. We didn't bring anyone here to put him in jobs that won't end, that, in those places that belong to the cabinet of ministers, when I'm no longer a minister or any other minister, these people will no longer work at the MUP, they are not constantly employed by the MUP. Those who are constantly employed have the same right to compete, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36217	I'm hanging in there. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The first amendment was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are already in the principle debate, the SRS said there really is a need to build cheap apartments for members of the Security Service. But our opinion is that this law does not solve the issue, since if we had surveyed more than 30,000 people who, by this principle, would exercise the right to such an apartment and that the wish proved a little more than 18,000, so 50%, and this makes 1,500 apartments or a little more than 1,000. So, the problem is not solved, and at this rate it will take about 30 years for all those members who have expressed their desire to realize the possibility this law gives them. So only less than 10% of them will have the right to be able to do that. So this can only be the beginning and we suspect that this problem will be resolved by the end of the day because we had the same promise from the government a few years ago, that we will have dwellings of 380 euros per square, apartments for young couples, etc. That's the rest of the letter on the paper, and where's the sequel?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36219	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36220	Thank you. I said in the previous address, so now I'm just going to repeat what's the point. I think that since such a situation is positive and light as presented by Minister and Mrs Mihajlovic, then there is no reason to limit it only to members of the security forces. I don't think so, but that's another thing now. Then why don't you open up that space and that possibility for all the civil servants, because that's the meaning of my amendment. On the other hand, I think, as I said, that discrimination is being brought, obviously separation if twenty thousand of them have expressed their wish, while at the same time only 1,700 or 1,600 and something now in the first stage to satisfy their ambition to get apartments, or buy apartments at the advantage of price. So what is it if you don't potentially draw evil blood amongst the members of these very sensitive resistors? On the other hand, they are re-emerged against all other civil servants. I think that's bad. How bad it is we'll see soon, but as I said, I will no longer speak on this matter during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36221	Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36222	I don't mind repeating as many times as it takes. So, it's not because of the citizens of Serbia and the people who applied, not 100, not 500, not 1,000, not 1,000 or anything, not 1,500 or 1,700, it's about as many apartments as the security forces are looking for. If they ask for 130,000, we'll build 130,000. There's a request for 20,000 right now. It's so much about approximation, so we've got something, because they're only going to be able to apply when we pass this law. So far, we've been able to do an analysis based on an assessment of their demands, where people didn't know what would get into the law. They'll assess their ability. We work here, we talk about subsidized prices of apartments, which will be at most 500 euros, in some cities and significantly lower. This will all depend on the assessment of market conditions in these cities. So not everyone will be in Belgrade. But 500 euros per square metre in Belgrade compared to, here's to find the lowest price of squares, since one of the locations after the water source after Makish towards Obrenovac, at a very nice location in Čukarica, you offer someone to buy 500 euros per square, they will accept the obruke. That's significant, not to say at least three times as good as market conditions. Of course, it refers to security forces. So we want to please these people. It'll be built up as long as they need it. There's no question of discrimination. We took, since they would be enough for everyone, we took from those who would be the first to compete so they wouldn't get it now, so the generals and the colonels would get it, and the regular cop or soldier couldn't compete. All people who are members of these services equally and equally satisfy their social issues. In these matters, we can't separate them. We can't say – well, you've got a higher rank, you'll have an advantage. We don't want that -- you have a higher rank, you'll have the same right as the one with the lower rank. Every member has the right to come and compete equally, has the right to achieve, to buy an apartment at the benefit of the price. Of course, he'll have to take part in it. But I'm telling you, 115 euros is a month-long war, so just to be a tenant in Belgrade, there's no way he can find an apartment underneath that. There's no way he's paying for himself and his family under 100 euros per square, no way, not to say it's 250, 300 for the monthly rent of the apartment. One hundred and fifty to own it? That's the perfect price. It's really a perfect price, and it's important that we get started. Was it better if we started ten years ago? It'd be better. Today might already be over. We didn't. Second, the best time is now. We don't have time, now we have to start.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36223	Thank you. The People's MP, Vladan Zagradin, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36224	I would like to thank the President. Dear Ministers, distinguished representatives of the government and the ministry, the proposed amendment requires only precision in order to achieve as much efficiency as possible in the practical application of the proposed law as possible, as much efficiency as possible in the application of this law. So, I don't particularly want to explain the amendment itself, given the very text of the amendment's proposal, is what should be taken into account by security forces. I think that, in any case, this amendment can be considered, or analysed, eventually accepted because it makes sense. What should particularly be pointed out here as important is the fact that it started with one activity that has never been recognized anywhere before as a need. The need for those who need to meet, given the specificity of their work, given the responsibility they have to carry out that job and the risks involved in the work they carry out. In view of the fact that this law is undoubtedly a law of legal nature, Lex specialises, it should in no case be subdued under any prism that implies an analysis of whether this law violates the constitutional principle of a prohibition of discrimination. According to us in the SPS parliamentary group, it is certain that this principle is not being violated, it is certain that this activity, which has been launched for now in several Serbian cities, will continue, that other territories of the Republic of Serbia, other municipalities and cities will also be covered. It is important that those who deserve to receive subsidized apartments, or under favourable conditions, do so in a way and according to the rules established after the adoption of this law. So, here, all the skeptical dimensions of thinking, all those who have come out of the skepticism of this law, are bound to see if the law really can be realized. So if it doesn't start with realisation, we can't in any way know if it can be realized or not. He also has that justification in all the facts the government has undoubtedly well analyzed. We think that this start really means starting to solve the issues of those who will be given priority, and later those who come to their turn after them, of course, from the security sector. As for other categories and other layers of the population by structure, both in terms of the work they are dealing with and in terms of the state administration or other sectors where they are employed, of course attention should be paid to them, especially young people, and all within the limits of financial opportunities, i.e. the real possibilities of the state of Serbia. This is a good start and this start should be supported anyway. Prejudice, skepticism, suspicions so far have no basis, because this law has not yet begun to be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36225	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36226	Honored Chairman, Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow People's MPs and MPs, Honored Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces suggested that a general interest be established for the construction of cheap apartments for members of the security services. I personally support the model of cheap building apartments for security structures because it is very natural and socially responsible for those people who provide and enable the security and stability of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state to provide both personal and residential security. With a strong assumption that construction will be preceded by construction companies and domestic construction industries, I believe this is a good project that will enable the healing of our domestic market in terms of the construction industry. We are all aware that in the former and SFRY construction industry, a lot was built, not only within the Republic, but throughout the world. This is a good start for the construction industry to return to those flows, in terms of qualitative, quantitative progress, and also for the expansion and strengthening of our industry in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like, as a member of the younger generation, to take advantage of the opportunity and to suggest that this is a good start for building cheaper apartments for security structures, so perhaps a good time to form a programme for building cheaper apartments for younger generations, therefore, for our young experts, and also for young couples, because it is also important for the Republic of Serbia to increase the birth rate, which means retaining young people in the Republic of Serbia, staying here and stability that would allow them to form a family and expand the family. That's why I think this should be considered a serious idea and I support this start, and so is my SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36227	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassadorplatmir Stevic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36228	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1 of the amendment, which I have submitted, I have suggested that in this legislative, system-based solution it be found that the right to address housing matters is also the families of the injured members of the security forces, as well as for the kidnapped and missing members of the military and police. The right to the apartment is the families of those who, defending their state of Serbia, have lost their lives with honor. It is known that only in NATO aggression lost the lives of 1.002 soldiers and police officers. Of course, for those families who have lost their loved ones by performing daily and responsible tasks and obligations by defending their country, or constitutional order. Given the importance and responsibility of the security forces' work, their importance for the security of the entire state, and also that the largest number of them have failed to resolve the housing issue permanently for decades, it is good that the ruling coalition has decided and proposed a law that solves this problem systemically. In fact, the necessity to pass a special law is seen in the implementation of this legislative project at the same time starting to build apartments in several different locations, in several cities and municipalities, which also requires a systematic solution to all issues and overcoming any problems that may arise in the course of the realisation itself. I would like to point out that during the principle debate, proposals were made to include this law and employees in health care and education in local self-government, as well as employees in other, or all areas of social life. I am convinced that this project will be successfully realised because this coalition is doing this systemically, pragmatically, rationally and step by step. Economic strengthening and economic development of our country will create conditions for building apartments in other areas, i.e. for employees in public institutions and institutions in all categories of society, especially young couples. I note that the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces is great, and therefore this law aims to achieve the project itself effectively and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36229	Thank you. The National MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36230	The President-in-Office, Honored Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members, this amendment complements the provisions of Article 1. By introducing the right to provide apartments under this law and for reserve military elders who have not resolved their housing issue, they are placed in line with the association of special importance for the security of the country. The reminders, when we discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, I drew attention in my debate on the status and financing of these associations, and now I want to draw attention to the resolution of the housing issue of its members who did not solve the same, if not in the first, then in the next phase of construction. The reserve military elders' association is heavily based on areas of importance for defence and makes significant contributions to strengthening the defence system. The 100-year tradition of this organization obliges us to support its survival, regulate its status, finance, and address the housing issues of its members. The potential of this organization represents positive social values, primarily patriotism, as well as the knowledge and experience of its members in the country's defence affairs. The Union of Reserve Military Elders, along with other goals, cultivates the free tradition of the Serb people and recalls significant events in the history of his struggle for freedom and independence. One commendation is that this law is passed with an unlimited duration. Finally, I hope that in the near future we will also pass a law that will allow young married couples who are experts in their work, as well as health and education workers, to resolve their housing issue under equally favourable conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36231	National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36232	Dear President, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Law, in order to make it a little bit more precise and more precise, in order to improve the conditions and highlight the general interest and importance of this law. In any case, I would like to point out that I support this law and that this approach will be supported by the entire SPS parliamentary group. This law shows a significant shift to regulate the position of employees in all systems and parts of the country's defence, whether military, police or BIA services. What is important shows that the radical relationship between this government and this government towards all members of these units, contrary to the government that in the period 2000 to 2012 ignored in all segments the position of employees in this part, as well as their overall material security. I believe that belonging to this service is of particular importance and that, in that sense, the state should refer to them in an adequate and responsible way, because by entering this service, each individual and every man is actually ready to lay down what is most valuable on the altar of the country. It is also known that the defence and security sector is of paramount importance for strengthening every country, its international position and reputation in the world and such a relationship with people who work in this service in any case requires one approach, as this law allows. What was the relationship, for example? The authorities, according to military members, police, may, among other things, illustrate one example that, as president of the Serbian Labour Market Management Board, the previous rule in the period 2000-2007 was tried for the abuse of the official position of the Serbian Labour Market Management Board at the time, to provide a special fund, which would help families of the dead. In any case, it is a shameful example of the relationship to these families, and to the people who have done this responsible and above all hard work. The passing of this law provides a completely new approach that is absolutely commendable, but at the same time I believe that some of the questions that this law has not regulated will be regulated by the law. Some of these issues have been raised in the debate so far, and these are certainly how the fund will be provided, what will be the participation of individuals, what are all the criteria for participation in this competition, what will finally be the choice of candidates, what are their obligations to the military and police after the exercise of that right, because it is certainly specific and special. There is also a question, or I ask a question – is there a plan for how long the benefits under this law will last? Finally, some of this is certainly, already said in the discussion so far, but it is important to note that the position of the evasive and displaced members of the army and police from other republics, to whom this issue has not been resolved so far, as well as the position of the families of the dead and wounded in the struggles to protect the rights and lives of the Serb people in general. It is important to take advantage of all passive and abandoned, and the preserved facilities and buildings of the army, there are many, and all capital to be put into service in order to address this issue positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36233	Thank you. Parliament member Daniela Stojadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36234	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, co-workers of the ministry, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, to Article 1(1), where words are added after the words - to this law - general interests are determined. As I noticed, a similar amendment from a colleague from another parliamentary group was adopted. The amendment complements the provision of Article 1(1). The bill, in addition to the conditions for the implementation of the cheap apartment building programme, determines the general interest in the implementation of this project. So, the engagement of domestic construction enterprises, which is very positive, strengthening construction in general, and the production of building materials, strengthening a comprehensive economy in general. The adoption of a special law has the justification for the implementation of this project due to uniform conditions, because it provides one system-based solution to the problem, and it takes into account the accelerated procedure of issuing permits and everything accompanying from the documentation. So nearly 1600 apartments in phase construction is a good solution that is also supported by MPs of the SPS group, by calling for this solution and this way of realization to be passed on to other structures of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36235	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Snezana Paunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36236	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-workers, representatives of the ministries, the amendments I submitted to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, specifically referred to Article 1 and Article 1 where, after the words - the MUP, in my opinion, should be added - to police members. What's the point? The amendment complements the provision of Article 1 by stipulating that the construction of dwellings also applies to members of the police, not only to members of the MUP, because, if possible, it is understood. We believe that this should be emphasized, first of all, by members of the police, who are public order and peacekeepers. My colleagues talked about how important it is to take care of the families of all the injured members and military and police, but I think it is also important to pay attention to people who are now in law school for members of the police, in fact young people who have yet to create families and join this global state policy on the rise of birth. It is very important to motivate them and in a way that we will say precisely in this law that it applies to them, because if our safety is already up to them, then it would be nice to provide them with safe conditions and have a roof over their heads, so that we, both of us, do our jobs and tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36237	Thank you. A letter from Marjana Marash submitted to the First Amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliament of Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36238	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 1(1). I have submitted an amendment to the bill relating to earlier members of the security forces which have been granted the right to retire in one of the state bodies covered by this proposal. When a retired security force is at stake, I must point out that they are members of the active, or those in a working relationship in a worse position for a number of reasons. Active security forces showed interest in the purchase of the apartment through the survey and were asked some of the following questions, which is where they work, i.e. what is the exhibit, the marital status, the number of children, whether they are provided or not, while they are not asking any questions for the square and for the location. All employees, and even those who were provided with housing, could, as you say, show interest in buying a cheap apartment. And when retired security forces are at stake, most of them on the rank lists of military-owned housing are not even contacted, although according to the criteria applied to assign apartments to use with the possibility of buying, are at the top of the rank list, which means that your data, that you had valid data, current addresses and phone numbers were available to you. I'm curious to know how you've informed and surveyed people who are retired, who have unresolved housing issues and a long tenant internship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36239	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. The word is Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36240	Mrs. Gojkovic, I would like to use the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. First, in this law on the realisation of a project to build apartments. The work of members of security forces differs from all actions since these people are retired much earlier than that of the working age. It's not mentioned here in article 6 where there's talk of structure, i.e. Article 7, the structure of housing in collective housing buildings, projected and built with the next surface and structure, is then 32 square meters to 92. Not to mention retired members, but only current ones. There is another problem here, since we have a unique debate on all these points of the agenda, we are not in a situation, not a single parliamentary group that in a quality way and submits amendments and discusses and then explains everything, since 20 draft laws here are united debates that are diverse. So we also have a situation not only about building apartments, but also about waterways, interstate agreements, road safety, etc. The Republic of Serbia, which has been on this road to the EU since 2000, has therefore been meeting certain conditions for 18 years, is signing Stabilisation Agreements, opening chapters, etc. so that one day, in our opinion and in the opinion of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they will never come, become a member of the EU and therefore pass laws. We see this in these reasons of the law where these laws are interpreted so that they are in accordance with European directives, with EU regulations and with the opening of chapters. We should have laws and laws to adopt in accordance with our legal system, not in order to please someone and just to bring it in because it is a condition from the EU. So we had a situation on the Law on Waterways, we had this law on the agenda in 2016, when we discussed it and submitted a large number of amendments, which were then rejected, and today we have a situation that we have before us a bill that integrates in a certain way and our amendments from the previous debate, only in a different context. So, only now, when the need came, did we bring what was necessary, not what was in line with some directives. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia is a full member of the Council of Europe. It is an international organisation dealing with the protection of human rights, rule of law, respect for the European Declaration of Human Rights, etc. Their body for the investigation of corruption is GRECO, a month or two ago, has reached some conclusions and recommendations on parliamentary life in the Republic of Serbia, where it has been said that we should have an emergency procedure for the adoption of the law, as an exception, not as a rule and not a single debate on all these issues. So, I find it a little strange that we are implementing EU directives when it comes to these laws and legislative proposals, and that we put all this into a single debate and so many different laws, that we cannot do something that is the basis of democracy and parliamentaryism, and we are already a member here, we are not in a position to respect it. On the other hand, since we have a unique debate, I also have to say something about a problem that was very public last week that this phenomenon is that. A change in the rules for vehicles older than 15 years in traffic shall be submitted twice to the technical examination. The minister said that, I think, on Thursday that the imposition will not be introduced, etc. I'm curious now, if that justification was for such a thing, security and better road safety and traffic, then why did we give it up so quickly? Because it was too much of a public response to such charges, as cars in Serbia are on average, even much older than 15 years old. If it was already security and safety in the first place, then the state of Serbia should subsidise this departure for a technical review, not to be abducted from someone 30 euros, who, if driven by an older car than 15 years of age, certainly means more to him than to someone who drives a new car. We also had a situation about the cabbie protest, and we only have a situation to deal with when a city is blocked, when there's a big strike, or when there's a public response, like in these two cases. So the taxi drivers had to block Slavia, so we could negotiate with them. The government of the Republic of Serbia, not the Assembly, has come up with some solution. The cab drivers have every right to protest. Because they are in the tax system, they pay taxes, they have to go for an aesthetic review, the rules for them in traffic are stricter than they are for ordinary drivers, and we have a situation where a company whose activity is similar to that of taxis, appeared on the market under other activities, doing their job and not in the tax system at all, or paying taxes here, but is money from Serbia. We, instead of looking at the problem ourselves and seeing it before the taxi drivers went out on the street, were waiting for the city to block to keep everything closed so that they could watch us solve these problems. It is then said that there are too many taxi drivers in Belgrade, that this is expensive and that there are many problems etc. The price of taxi transport determines the city of Belgrade and what is most strange and what is different from any other activity, is that there is no competition from the taxi association. So, competition is a normal thing in any economic activity, and it doesn't exist and it's not allowed for taxi drivers to, for example. Introduce discounts and determine the price of their driving. So the state of Serbia should see and see some problem before it comes out so much and then not come into the situation that some regulations are being passed or abolished just because there is a huge public response to it, as it is in this situation. I agree that people who have an older car than 15 years should not be imposed, but first to see if there are any benefits and not to introduce them, so only when the public turns against it to the extent that these laws are withdrawn. So, since we're passing laws just because we're on our way to the EU, just because we're opening chapters, not because it's our need, and this harmonisation process is fatal to Serbia. It has not only started with this government but has been in force since 2000. I must say that nothing of this will mean anything to us and all of these laws that are in line with European regulations, nothing will help us to enter the EU, because it is a question of all the questions of KIM and only if the Republic of Serbia recognises Kosovo, as an independent state if it exchanges ambassadors, then we will make some progress, and this has no purpose and no point whatsoever. I therefore appeal to the promoters to propose future laws that are in line with our legal system and in line with the needs of our country and society, not to please anyone and to open any chapter.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36241	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36242	As far as the Traffic Safety Act is concerned, this provision has been in the Law since 2009. So it hasn't changed in any amendments to the law since 2009. Therefore, this one on a double or six-month technical examination for all vehicles over 15 years of age. We reacted to what we saw when we passed a rule on the application of this law, that we were in fact able, the profession said that, although we might be better off having more control of those vehicles because, you know, when a child gets killed, then suddenly he doesn't wonder if he had 30 euros but asks why his child died, why his brakes aren't good, or if his construction axles are such that his bumper kills a child, and he doesn't accept energy, so that the pedestrian survives. Well, then no one talks about 30 euros anymore, then everyone's talking about life, why we haven't protected life and everything else. We were trying to find the balance. We think that we can still do with one annual review, of course, now we have regulations that guarantee that this technical review will actually be done and that it will be recorded without being fictitious, that someone just slipped through the papers. As for the cab driver, of the 6,5,000 taxi drivers, as many as there were, about 200 were on strike. Others, the largest cab drivers' associations were fully in agreement with the law, and these 200 strikers from day one had their representatives in the task force formed by the Ministry of Transport and were mainly all their proposals already included in the draft amendments and additions to the law. It wasn't clear to me that I was trying to figure out what it was that motivated them to come out to protest, because in fact, in the end, the goal was the same, nothing changed in the law. They gave up the further protest, and that ended it. This showed me that the fundamental reason for the protest was not something that was important to them, but perhaps some political manifestation and the strengthening of one of the associations in relation to others. We are trying to be a responsible state, not because of the European Union, but because of our country, we are passing laws, as is today which is before us, which we are helping our citizens. If one day we enter the European Union, it will be good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36243	I will not allow a replica because we will discuss this when this law comes to the agenda, or amendment under that law. We are now discussing amendments to the first law, and we cannot hold a debate on a law that will come later on when amendments come. On the first law we are discussing, the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. If you want a word by that amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36244	I just want to say that I agree that safety costs more and a human life of 30 euros, but if that is already our need, then the state should subsidise it and thus help the safety of traffic users, especially if they are users of those vehicles that are more than 15 years old and if they are more insecure than they are new, etc. What's also symptomatic is that they would be the only country in Europe that introduces two technical reviews. I agree that we may need to tighten the technical review criteria, but if we have security first, then we should also introduce that subsidy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36245	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 1(1). The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces that I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party is no longer technical but essential. The idea that members of the security forces and retired persons, former members of the security forces, is good and deserves great public attention, as well as us MPs. However, this law does not intend to solve the housing problems of the person concerned, because the procedure provided for is not precise and clear, so it is not clear who will be favored whether to resolve its housing issue. What brings us to this suspicion in the U.S.S.? It brings us, ladies and gentlemen, which is a lot of housing cases. Even if the apartments are built, it'll be small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36247	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36248	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, another of the many amendments submitted by the SRS, are trying to make a contribution to this bill relating to building apartments for members of the security services. I hope the minister will give us some answers to questions that will solve some dilemmas as well as me as a MP and potential winners – are locations and cities determined on the basis of real estimates and the need for apartments in those cities? In other cities and municipalities, people live and work in a security system. Let's just say, why aren't apartments built in Valjevo, Rumi, Chačka, Užica, where people also live and work in the mentioned services, and they haven't solved the housing issue? Or is it, Mr. Minister, another attempt to collect political points and clean marketing for these big cities, or does it happen by any chance that money is being laundered through this building and tendered, as it was during the yellow company? When Stepa Stepanovic was built, one of the predecessors talked about it, the works were disastrously carried out. The square of the apartment ranged from 1,200 euros to 1,300 euros. There's a state behind you and that kind of construction. For that location was an unreal high price, so those who got apartments must pay a high price for the ransom. What do you guarantee this won't happen in this case? Maybe people who get such apartments won't want to accept them because of the location or poor quality of construction, which they have the right to, regardless of who's on the waiting list. In the end, will all the apartments, the 1578 that are built, be exclusively credited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36249	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36250	Here, I'll try to explain. I think we've already covered one part of the debate, but let me say it one more time. First of all, money laundering is off. First of all, apartments are not assigned. So that's what everyone's talking about, no apartment assignments. He's got a lot of apartment purchases. The purchase of apartments implies a contractual obligation between the future owner of the apartment and the financial institution where it provides credit. So he expresses his will to buy an apartment in that location. He doesn't have to. I don't like the location. I don't like the location. I don't want to buy one. Thank you very much. I'm not happy, I don't think so. We've already done the survey. So, the poll is not binding in any way, but before the law was passed, we could only do about 20,000 members now, which doesn't mean there won't be any more or less, it depends on them, it's said they want to buy an apartment at a price of up to 500 euros per square square square in a square of 36 to 92 squares that they want to buy. So, those who buy the apartment at their own free will know that they buy it at the limit price, and those who offer credit conditions will have to compete at the level, or in lowering interest rates and in more favourable conditions of financing these apartments, and the state is building up in accordance with the prices it can achieve, the best prices it can achieve, and not more than 500 euros per square, which, you have to agree, is really for the conditions in which we live very well, especially in large cities. Why some cities before others? We didn't set restrictions on any kind. People could say whether they wanted to buy an apartment by place of residence or place of work. Both options were possible, and they came forward, we took the first six where, first of all, they were at one of the most accessible locations, so where urbanism is the most ready, because it is necessary to prepare certain documentation so that we don't wait any longer. Two, where local self-government is the fastest to meet and three, where the largest number of people are interested, to solve there first. We're not going to build where we have six demands, and where we have six thousand to end. It's more important to start where there's more, which doesn't mean there's no building in Valjev and it's not going to be built in other places.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36251	Thank you. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36252	Well, Minister, what you just said is quite different from what your colleague, Zorana Mihajlovic, told us here on Friday. What you just said about these apartments, you or you want to deceive the National Assembly and the public, or you've been deceived in service, because what you're saying disagrees with the real situation. Here, I'll tell you exactly what this is about. We were told on Friday by Zorana Mihajlovic that you know who this bank is, that you already have, that the government contracted someone with the bank, that the government and she knew what the interest rate was, said it was very low, we asked if it could have been lower. We asked her why this bank, whose name she didn't say to the soul, why not someone else, was there a tender, etc? So, quite the opposite of what you said this morning when Natasha Jovanovic responded, he said. You said you'd only talk about what the bank is, that you'd just talk about the interest rate, which somehow looks more like, is closer to the truth than what Zorana Mihajlovic was saying, but in any case, you from the government must have a unique opinion when you speak to the National Assembly. You were just talking about the way you interviewed people who are employed in security services. Minister, please hear what I'm about to tell you, and we watched what your survey sheets look like. It doesn't say anywhere that anyone polled can report the location. In that survey list of yours, he writes his name and last name, how much he has to do and whether he wants to solve the housing issue this way. Neither mention the location nor mention the structure of the apartments. So what we claimed when we spoke in the principle debate, you have now actually confirmed by your argument. It won't be any of this business. I wish it was. We don't want this to be a law that's just going to be a letter on paper, but everything says it's just going to be that and God forbid it's just gonna be a first step. In further amendments, we'll tell you what else has to be done. Please, the chairman, I wanted to ask Mrs Gojkovic, that you must be, you may want, a little more flexible when the MPs speak, cannot the chairman say – we will talk about this law when it is, we will talk about it when we talk about amendments to that law, because we will only talk about amendments to this law and only on three amendments. Everything remains secretive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36253	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is from Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36254	First of all, we are all bound by the only law that adopts this National Assembly, obliges all of us in the application of this law, and it is clear that we will publish a public invitation for the selection of financial institutions that are lending. We're going to give financial institutions, banks in this country a chance to compete. We have done an approximation through state banks belonging to the Republic of Serbia. What's the best they can offer to make an assessment and projection? If it appears on the market of a bank that can guarantee, drop, they will have to give up and process loans, so credit processing services, they will have to compete more seriously with the interest rate. We'll have a chance to make your terms even more favourable. In any case, what will certainly be will be a public call for funding and, of course, every individual member of the security force makes a contract. It is an assessment of his financial, or credit capacity and he will be able to compete for the square he meets under this law. As far as I'm concerned, you have complete certainty that this will not remain a letter on paper. We want to show that we're very serious this year, and we're going to work on it, and that's why we've been working on the paperwork, and we've been doing it for months. We're working on starting the construction of over 5,000 apartments this year, so that we can get the construction done as soon as possible for members of the security services that express their intention to participate in this. I don't think it's going to be anything bad, I think it's going well, no matter what I appreciate and the efforts of the National Assembly to fix this law, which is a job, of course, we listen very carefully to what the MPs say. I want to assure you that, in fact, through this mechanism, the process will be guaranteed and transparent and that people who are credit users will get the best conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36255	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36256	A brief replica to the minister. This all you said in this first part of the answer is acceptable and it is in accordance with the law and so it should be, but what we're worried about is, I repeat, Zorana Mihajlovic said on Friday that what you're saying now that you're going to do, that it's already done, and since she is delivering some of the proposals to the American Embassy, etc., who knows what she did to you, Minister Stefanovic, check it out. You can do it as Minister Resorial, and so can her colleague to see what this is really about. As for your claim that this will certainly be done and that there will be no dead letter on paper, you know, the initial idea from 2014 when your party president promised to build apartments for young couples of 380 euros per square metre, which, of course, every normal one would support, but here for four years there was none of it, and then for this previous campaign he promised those same apartments only 500 euros. It's not gonna happen again. You know, somehow you don't give away the impression that you can be trusted. This may be the third happiness, and perhaps what you said that you decided to be serious this year, in other words, you've admitted that you've been inconclusive so far, so let's be serious and really do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36257	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36258	So, I wasn't present at the session, but here were my colleagues here and they tell me that Mrs. Mihajlovic never said so. (Miss Radeta: What? So, we were talking about approximation... (Miss Radeta: What? I'm told she didn't say that. In any case, it doesn't matter, what can be seen in the stenogram notes we'll check, but what I'm telling you, what's in the law, that, you can't make any public call before the law is passed. So the law is the law, that only binds us. When does the law come to an end? When the Assembly adopts it, if it adopts it, it will accordingly send a public call to financial institutions and thus decide who will be the most favourable, or who will give the best conditions to the National Assembly. Everything else was a speech about approximation. So we've done an evaluation, you just have to do an evaluation, whether it's worth it, whether people who want to make a statement at all, because it was very important at first to know how many of these people there are, what the pace, what dynamics are, and they have to have some real price, some basis, even if it's going to be an indicator of how much it's going to be. We in the ministry did and talked to people, say in Belgrade, locations where they were interested, asked them specifically, say for locations, first locations in Ovca and locations after Makiš, according to, deeper in the municipality of Chukarica, we asked people about it. I have an exact number of people who have been identified as sheep, somewhere around, I think, close to two thousand and other people who have defined themselves as Chukarica. Did they even have framework deadlines that because of the planning documentation, those in Ovca will be faster, they will be finished faster, because simply, the planning documentation is so done. As far as the impression is concerned, whether we are serious or not, that's what the Serbian citizens say, they give us all the value and tell us how serious they think we are. Some consider it more serious, some consider it less serious and say it clearly in the elections. They say – you are serious, you are less serious, these are very serious, we simply do not consider them worthy. It is something that everyone has measured and in all elections so far since 2014 citizens have been estimating it very nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36259	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36260	It's a good thing how many citizens believe in propaganda, the fact, it's numbers, but you know that election results and percentages are a variable thing, but let me cut to the chase, that you don't bother around the stenograms, obviously the colleagues sitting here with you, except for drinking coffee, or listening to anything, or what they're looking at here. So, Zorana Mihajlovic said, quote her – you know what the bank is, you know what the interest is. Very precise, and also to you, Mr. Minister, once again to draw attention. You're saying that citizens have been identifying themselves, or members of the security department for apartments in Ovca, and I don't know where. I'm telling you that I've looked at these survey sheets with my own eyes where you don't ask them anywhere what the locations are in the offer, what structure is in the offer, and that just puts us even more in doubt that something under the grain is actually doing. Perhaps there are some people who have received some other survey sheets. I am telling you about the survey papers that were received by security members in Serbia, and in which they only ask what your name is, how many years of employment you have, and whether you want to buy an apartment on loan with these conditions provided for by this law. There is no other question in that survey list.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36261	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36262	In a survey conducted in April, I can tell you about the MUP, you can ask that, it's not a secret, after all thousands of people have said that. So, they said, above all, those living in Belgrade, about two locations of the Makisko Polje, to call it that, and Ovca, since we had offers on the working group of the government involved in making apartments. I insisted that there were at least two locations for the members of the MUP. I was interested in that, of course, and everyone else, because the different parts, people want, they're gravitating in different parts of the city, it would be unserious if we gave them only one location, and maybe there'll be more locations. The two were the first possible and polled all members in April for the city of Belgrade. So, surveyed them whether they wanted the location of the Sheep or the location of Makish and people were defined. Those who wanted to commit themselves at all to housing and said in Ovca, so I can't remember exactly the number, but let's say, between 1,800 and 2,000, and in Makish, these others from Belgrade who have defined themselves, a slightly larger number, for example, 6,000. I can't remember exactly the numbers. So people can commit between the sheep and Makish, if that's not what we're asking. So that's two locations at the end, I'm saying it in public now, we're in direct transfer to the National Assembly sessions. There are so many thousands of people in the application for the city of Belgrade who could deny me tomorrow morning or already today. We asked those who were interested in it, which doesn't mean that others who have not been interested in housing at all can't compete after this law is passed. I can. These are the first two locations currently available in Belgrade. Will there be more? We'll see in time, but this is to say step one.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36263	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36264	Mr Marinkovic, you are about to fall a burden on you, but not quite, you are chairman, I am reporting on Article 27, and in fact it is about that you have to agree with Mrs Gojkovic, like all the other vice presidents, here Mrs Radeta is here and no one has consulted her, that when she comes to this shift the minister, means since the government says that she is team-conceived, he is a new player on the team that came instead of Zorana Mihajlović, who should certainly be expelled completely, disqualified, expelled from the government of Serbia because of what she is doing for Western interests, so you have to make some consultations and when a new authorised representative of the Government comes to say, as you should have told Mr Stefanovic that Zorana Mihajlović has been deluding herself throughout the day through the arrogance and his performance, and we have already come to the very much of the business, we have been hearings, and there are not heard of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any kind of any kind of any kind. You know, now kids can play on computers and do any animation of anything. We haven't heard who's going to produce the brick, or who's going to make the windows, or who's going to do the planning documentation, and now we're going to ask you again because she didn't tell you because she didn't, because she was unconscious or simply possible to know what your opinion and yours was about to tell you, and she's about to fly out of the Serbian government and she deliberately got you into this situation. What do I care that she put you in this situation, but the SRS parliamentary group is wasting its time, its seconds and minutes to repeat something that she didn't, as an unconscious minister, tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36265	Thank you. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. You know, you're very well aware of the fact that the government can empower any minister. We will also agree that Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic has the full capacity to defend all these laws and that he can debate accordingly within the framework of a parliamentary debate. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36266	As for these view apartments, as I understand it, in early June will be completely finished, perhaps even earlier, but let me say, in early June will be completely finished view apartments, which will in fact follow the dynamics of law making so that people who are interested can see what it will look like and what is interesting next to, of course, the structure that is 36 to 92 square meters and the Vendor list of products where about 80% of the product is domestic. So, this is important for citizens, or those who buy, and of course for all of us, that they will be able to participate in the procurement, that in fact domestic companies will participate in it. As for companies that will operate construction, they as well as financial institutions will be in a public tender, therefore, during public procurement, which is important because of the transparency of the process, and that is the only thing this law provides. We have to respect what the law says.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36267	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36268	As far as ideas are concerned, building such apartments and helping people working in security services is in place. However, we cannot agree that the price of apartments is in place. So we think that the prices of these apartments can be much lower and at much lower prices they can be built. What you didn't do, put and specify the conditions for building such apartments, and because you left a lot of undefined things, in terms of criteria, even in terms of which the bank, in terms of interest, in terms of many other things, rank lists, etc., we think you left a lot of room for potential corruption. We know well that in our country, and our country doesn't bloom at all, in fact, when it comes to corruption, and everything else, you know, we're behind in all the other things. Therefore, if one such proposal is being made and one law like this wants to be adopted, it was not allowed, and the state to stand behind it, to leave no percentage of the possibility of corruption, and you have left here many opportunities for corruption to happen in all stages of building these apartments. What is most important and what falls into the eyes is the act brought by the minister. What is the act brought by the minister, what does this act contain and what will the minister do? Isn't it enough that the minister has a certain discretionary right to spend so much money on everything and everything, and not to account for anyone, and especially not to the MPs, and not to the citizens, to give again, in a situation like this, when the state needs to do a serious thing, and that we don't have clearly defined things behind it, but that something needs to be decided by the minister? Who's the minister to decide on such a difficult problem? Who's the minister to determine for himself certain conditions when it comes to security services and when it comes to... Through a solution to this question, we citizens feel much safer, because when something happens, we all look at the military and the police, but all of us. And let me tell you something else, have you thought about whether it's wise for you to make such a group apartment for such people, imagine when it happens, God forbid, some bombing or something, so what are we going to do? We'll be out of those people in half an hour, in three minutes. Is that okay? There's a lot of things that we should come up with a little bit better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36269	Thank you. The word is by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36270	So, in order to avoid confusion, first of all, any sublegal act to be adopted under this law must follow the provisions of the law and can only be adopted in accordance with this law. What's the Ministry doing? Every ministry, based on the elders of every authority of the administration that has jurisdiction over the implementation of this law, must adopt a regulation, an internal act, which will be subject to a), I will tell you how this will happen in the MUP, we first have a public invitation to submit an offer. The public invitation to tender will be made within the ministry by all those who consider to meet the criteria laid down by the law. We will do the selection, only in terms of whether they meet the conditions, as the law predicted, whether the workers of the MUP, were they not, did they do this, did they not, etc. And that's all. And the minister edits the ranking list, not the rank list, the list, the list of all those who meet the requirements, and that's that. So that's the role of the ministry. We edit the list of all those who have fulfilled, competed by someone who has no right under the law, I can't put it on the list, so it's mine to just determine in accordance with the law whether that list fits what legal criteria and conditions are. After that, everything else is between the financial institution and the man who is competing, it determines his creditworthiness, the financial institution approves his credit, and he concludes a contract with whoever builds the apartment, so you'll see who, it's probably going to be a special new company or, let me say, an institution that will actually deal with the formal fulfilment of these conditions, and that's the role of the ministry, there's no discretion, there's no rank list, so we've avoided the ranking list, there's no first and last. And by number they meet, so those who come first are the first to compete. Number one is the one who first came and asked for the first apartment, the first one, the one that came in 82th is 82th, regardless of the rank, the years of internship, the years of fulfillment, the unfulfilled, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36271	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36272	Here, in Article 2, paragraph 2 of this article, it is said that if something is not defined, then expropriation laws, planning and construction, etc. will apply. However, the law went even so far in detail that it predicted when the land was expropriated where a building that was without a building permit was built, it even predicted it, so that in some way this lex specialis dealt with all aspects of this problem. What we are interested in from the SRS, and therefore one part of the public, is that we get a reply from the minister or from one of the authorised representatives, the funds that are invested in the name of all these costs by local self-government, by the regional authorities, by the republican ministries or secretariats, as clearly as it stands in this law, are conditionally said voluntary contributions from certain levels of government to address this problem, conditionally said voluntary contributions. But there's one completely realistic fact, and that's that if we take into account that this year we're going to start building 18,000 objects, how interested is it based on the survey, on the average of the squares and all that we've seen, it could be about 50 squares. That's the financial equivalent of 450m euros, if 500 euros is a square meter. Only on this first occasion, on the first stage when it comes to 18,000 apartments, will the state, or the Republic, earn 450 million for 18,000 apartments, an average square of 50 square meters. Since the minister has announced that there will be 400,000 square meters, then it is an easy calculation times 500 square meters and that is a significant impressive figure that will be realized on behalf of the sale of these apartments. Since the minister has announced that 400,000 square meters will be made, then it is an easy bill, times 500 euros, it is a significant, impressive figure that will be achieved on behalf of the sale of these apartments. Now, who's going to make up for the cost of landscaping? Who's going to make up for the cost of utility? Who among other things is going to make up for those expenses that other investors are paying? The second question – given that 30,000 are interested or 30,000 assuming the ministry of cases to be solved, is then a much larger figure, when it comes to euro, that is 750m euros. Of 750m euros, let's see how much costs will go back to local self-government and these. Because, look, if we go by logic, so as not to make up for these costs to local self-governments to equip city building land, for municipal equipment, then other investors who are involved in construction must pay in that local environment. If everything is precise, we need to know or perhaps we do not see in this "medical specialty" such opportunities who will and in what way make up for certain costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36273	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36274	This is an important question, because we have defined that when you build, everything that belongs to the complex, to call it the building plot on which the complex of apartments spoken of by this law belongs, and it will be built exclusively by the state, or by those companies that receive a public call. So it refers to him, these funds that will be provided from financial institutions with which users will conclude an agreement. What is beyond the complex, therefore, road infrastructure, network, connection, sewerage, water, electricity, etc. will be done by those authorities of local self-government or state dealing with this business, which is their obligation when a legal settlement appears on certain territory, to equip it to the border of the settlement, with municipal infrastructure. There's that part that you're right about, about utility infrastructure, that is, plumbing, sewerage, construction land arrangements, what's going on with it, on the territory of the complex where the apartments are going to be built. One part, there's a recommendation, you talk to local self-governments, they don't have the obligation not to charge, so they have a recommendation that they can reduce the price that would be as part of a subsidy package or release the payment. They have no direct compensation for these costs provided for by this law. What's it count? Based on the increased number of people who will live there, they will have a return of property tax that citizens will pay, which is partly poured into local self-government, and that is long-term for them, to say, an interest in return and of course, we will consider depending on the degree of liberation from local self-government to local self-government, given that the income of local self-government, to be completely real, is one of the largely dependent on the transfer funds that the state gives, which helps them. So we're going to consider what we can do to make sure that they're not actually damaged. That's the thing we're working on, there's no unique pattern because the municipalities are in different situations. Some municipalities want to attract security officers to their territory. I apologize for taking more time. Some municipalities want it, but they may not have financial opportunities, where the state will have to intervene and perhaps help them through the budget. Of course we'll try to avoid any damage. I say, through the property tax, that part of the money comes back through the years of exploitation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36275	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. Milorad Mircic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36276	Look, Ministers, it's an emergency that in some ways through sales taxes and through all the other expenses of living that those who live will have, but these are mostly people who already live in those environments, so they pay for those costs of living, buying food and other things, they pay in some other way, increased by sub-inhabiting rent. This is about the following, is there any thought to stimulate local self-government, just one part of what you were talking about? Since the transfer funds are largely present now in many local self-governments, and among other things in these cities mentioned here in this law, can they count on not only the transfer funds but also some of the benefits to those local environments, or local self-government? Here's one example just for painting. We have sports and business centres in many cities, many local self-governments. They can't support themselves from the programs they organize, of all things, and they know it. There are far more interests than this economic account that we should possibly be thinking about. Can the Government or the Resort Ministry, on the basis of the high costs, or costs that are at the highest percentage, in the operation of sports and business centres, which is electricity, utility, water and all, can the Government make any concession in this respect, so that it says, forms do, to be fully covered by the applicable laws for the development of top sport? In certain places, the government is going to take over the financing of the costs, let's say the power, I'm going to go into detail. Is it possible, purely because local self-governments also need to understand that they can be stimulated in this way when it comes to determining the parcels on which future construction will be carried out. Because this isn't even a little bit of a local self-government thing. Don't forget, first of all, the accent will be put on contractors from that local community. It is impossible to expect all Belgrade firms to go inland and work there. After all, labour will have to be engaged in these local self-governments. That's what this is all about, just so you're not saying this isn't going to turn out to be Lex specialis second in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36277	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36278	I really agree that it's an important topic and that we need to think about it. I will also recommend the Ministry of Finance to consider the overall financial effects. So, what is it that a state can do and how much can it do? I would separate this from this example with sports halls because it has often been, you know, in local self-government, a lot depended on the management of the performance of these people. Some have hired so many people in these systems of these sports associations, so now the state has to pay him that he hired 150 people at the sports center. Make sure they do business in the market. There are those who do it. I don't want to punish those who have been successful right in this, but we need to do an analysis of the exact effects so that we don't have to say -- well, we can free them from this or that, because it's costing someone. If someone doesn't pay for the electricity, someone else has to pay for it. If it's paid by the state, that's what we all pay for it. Then the question arises, why should they pay, I don't know, some institutions. We need to get rid of the electricity, I mean, that's how it goes. As far as this is concerned, I am fully agreed to consider the possibilities of local self-government, because this law has specifically recommended them to give up compensation for different connections. Whether all local self-governments will be able to see it, but of course there is room for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Administration, local self-government and construction to talk about making some sort of agreement as realistic as possible, how much local self-government can, what is significant to them. They are still, most of them live really there, but they don't pay taxes on property because they don't have their own property. So they pay other taxes that will continue to pay by consumption of these goods and services, but the property tax only pays because they will become property owners. And through the property tax, one part of which goes to fund local self-government, local self-government will have an additional effect as part of its own income. The transfer funds of the Republic, as the Republic repairs its financial situation, I believe that one part of the additional funds will be considered to be invested in local self-government, depending on needs and possibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36279	Thank you, Minister. The word is Milorad Mircic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36280	Here, this second part, this second segment that I want to clarify for the public anyway, and also for us MPs. We need to hear the answer, or explain what will happen to those assets that are due to the name of the sale of military buildings, construction land, equipment, because we are witnessing that more and more are interested in buying, say building land or even the land where the barracks are currently located. Will it be a special fund that will serve these purposes or will something else be done from that fund? Will it be possible to compensate with local self-government, that local self-governments on behalf of certain costs are subject to certain areas when it comes to some building plots that have security forces, whether the military or the police, is irrelevant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36281	Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36282	You know the Department of Defense is proposing a master plan that effectively regulates the status of military land and military property. This master plan is being adopted by the government and based on this plan, they have predicted what they are doing with those unspectived military facilities, so those military facilities that do not meet the purpose or find not part of the territory that no longer corresponds to the military's purpose. Are they in the center of the settlement, so it's better to be on the perimeter for security reasons, and in fact through one part of the property that the Army inherited, so after World War II, one part of the complex that they have that they can sell. So some of them stepped in, and the army took over from Nis to certain educational centers of the state. So she gave to other institutions one part of the property that is state property, of course, which the military has, and one part of the property will be used in accordance with the plan provided for by the Ministry of Defence, so this also serves to obtain other assets from the Ministry of Defence. These funds are being spent either for the realisation of the housing programme that the military has independent of this programme, or for what was the supply of equipment of funds, the technique that the military has, therefore, to participate in part of it. So, that's according to my knowledge what's in the plan now. I don't know the detailed plans of the Ministry of Defence regarding each item, but I think that tomorrow Minister Vulin is present here in the O.R., I think he can explain more in detail, but certainly these are the means that are predetermined what is done with them and the fact that the master plan when sold to a particular barracks or part of the property that the military has, they transform it into another property of the Army so that what the military needs is effectively preserved and what makes its work more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36283	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36284	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law where Article 3 is added. Whether or not it is necessary to say that the realisation of this project is driven by the construction industry and the construction operation to a extent that affects the comprehensive improvement of business. I believe, and we also heard from the minister that most of the materials, semi-products and products necessary for the construction of these apartments will be domestic. The only problem in the realisation of this project I see in the lack of qualified personnel, especially builders, builders, carpenters and the like, so perhaps we need to deal with the way and measures to train and provide quality masters not only for this project and similar projects, but for the future. Another aspect of the implementation of this project is resolving the housing issue to security forces. Addressing the housing issue of members relaxes their families, and they will certainly carry out their tasks and tasks with more motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36285	Thank you, colleague Kostic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, honourable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36286	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. And the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, motive for submitting this amendment. It is clearly recognised in the attitude expressed by the legislator of this law. The position found in the light of the bill's proposal and which recognises the context of development in a broader sense, as indisputable and when it comes to the problem which is currently dealing with this law. I will now read this view, therefore, says the legislator – by adopting this law, except as it seeks to solve the biggest problem of unresolved housing needs of security personnel will make a significant contribution and, among other things, GDP will grow precisely in the area of construction. Furthermore, the employment of the domestic construction industry and the increase of employment in the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, VAT revenues are growing on various grounds in terms of a complex and comprehensive process, further increasing income from property taxes, improving our administration. Despite the fact that directly this law applies through its positive applications to people employed in the Security Sector, he has positive applications. Both companies and entrepreneurs and state authorities at the level of the Republic and the AP and at local level as well as on a number of other interested parties. So, it is undeniably a clear context of development as broader than what the title of the law itself is, and it is recognised by the proposer, it is the attitude of both the SNS parliamentary group and the desire for us as a parliamentary group to further highlight this aspect through the introduction of the very text of the law we have submitted this amendment, and I am taking the opportunity to thank the promoter not only for the adoption of the proposed amendment, but not just for the fact that we share the same vision, the same values when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, but also for the fact that by good joint work we implement them in practice, among other things, through this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36288	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The First Amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36289	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces, I have submitted the following amendment. In Article 1 Article 2 of the Law states: ‘except for the provisions of this Act on the implementation of the project referred to in Article 1, the provisions of the Expropriation Act ‘Owner of the Republic of Serbia 53/95’ and ‘US 20/09’ and 55/13 of the Law on Planning and Construction, Amendment 64/10, US 50/13, 98/13, 132/14 and 145/14 of the Public Procurement Act ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia No 124/12/12, 14/15, 68/15 and the General Administrative Procedure Act ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ No. 60 18/16 shall apply. This amendment shall be governed by a legal technical order separate from Article 1. means those technical nature all in order to improve the text of the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36290	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've already talked about the need for certain security officers to be assured to come and resolve their housing issues under these conditions. But what is certain is that it will not be resolved by this law because it is one too small a number compared to the needs, so those people who have only been surveyed were more than 18,000, more than 35,000, 18,000 said that under these conditions would agree in this way to realize and resolve their housing issue. I'm just sorry if we have 1,500 of these apartments to build at all these locations, I think it's clear that they can't be the most exclusive or exclusive locations, but that's not an important question. However, it is not clear to me that if the Republic of Serbia and local self-government in the Republic of Serbia can provide land as soon as possible when an investor arrives, that all administrative paperwork and property is resolved as soon as possible for investors who, especially those who, after they have run out of what they earn, because they immediately have huge subsidies per employee, how is it problematic to resolve the issue and that more apartments are provided than 1,500? At this rate, I have stressed earlier today that this issue will not be resolved in the next 20 years. The question is how many of these people who have expressed their desire to participate in the implementation of this project in this survey. to finally exercise the right to apply for the apartment, how much they will welcome that realization. On the other hand, there are no clear criteria on how it will be allocated, and I think it should be of the highest priority for the government of the Republic of Serbia to address this issue as soon as possible. So, if investors can get here for the minimum wage, and they use subsidies from the Republic of Serbia, if they can solve for a month or less than a month all issues with local land self-government, why can't they provide now and the location and for more than simply suggested, these apartments. So, they are, it is a shame that our officers are still tenants and they have no settled housing issue, especially if we expect them to defend Serbia tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36292	Thank you. The word is held by Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36293	The good thing about this law is it's pretty clear. The criteria are that whoever wants them will get them. No rank list, no conditions. There used to be some earlier conditions where there must have been such an act or a position, if there is no act, there can't be that square and so many family members or so many internships, now there isn't. He wants a man's apartment, he gets it. It just needs to be creditworthy, at a subsidized price, the state gives him an apartment in Belgrade for 500 euros per square cent. Maybe it'll be lower than that. So these are really favourable conditions. Indeed, truly favourable conditions that someone can provide an apartment in the interior will be significantly lower than that because simply market conditions are better, cheaper prices. And there is, therefore, the criteria are such that a man can apply, who first applies will be the first to receive. As for construction, we plan to start over 5,000 apartments this year. And that, I hope, within two years these five thousand will be completed, which doesn't mean that in February, in March we won't start with the next number of apartments and that's good, because in this case we don't have the need for expropriation in all locations it's about land that's in state property. So we don't need to ransom him from anyone. We have a transfer of ownership from one level to another by our own, administrative measures, we have no limit. This is where the law is to be passed. I hope the law will be passed quickly. When the National Assembly adopts the law, a public call begins, an official application begins. Someone asked how you were, I don't know, before the law. We had to have some initial information, some basics, so we could tell people what we're getting into, whether there's anyone interested, what places and how many, and we were doing the survey. She doesn't commit anyone. These people can give up, tomorrow morning someone who hasn't even checked in in that poll can sign up, but we had to have some groundwork. As far as investors are concerned, none has left Serbia, those who were granted subsidies, and after 14 months, subsidies paid off, and we have profit from it, like the Republic of Serbia. After 14 months, 15, 16, 17 and every month, we have profits from these investors. After all, it is much better for people to have a salary than to have zero dinars, not to sit at home rather than to have a working relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36294	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marina Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will continue to point out the lack of this bill, I will be a little bit attached to my colleague, Alexander Seselj, because I too have noticed that in the proposal of this law there is a complete absence and criteria and priorities, and no one can convince me that it is good, because at present it is an interest of nearly 19,000 members, it is built in the first phase - 1578, so there are 5,000, although for these 1578 somewhere and the budget has been allocated, and it is approximately known, and there are 5,000, and there will be no ranking lists. I do not know how it is possible, I will now quote Minister Mihajlović - that this is the way and way to ensure and systematically resolve such a question, so that there will be no ranking list here and all members who want to buy an apartment, and who have already reported themselves interested by now, have the opportunity to buy much larger apartments. It is a wonderful speech, but I am curious again, when, in what time will the Ministry of 18.905 be interested in putting in 1578 apartments, different structures, different cities, and if I could, again, quote – to compete for whatever apartment size they want. The word itself competes, imposes that rank list. There must simply be some priorities, which are urgent to move into the apartment, whether they are wartime military people, whether they are single parents, must be seen in that first stage who will have some priority. Now I hear it's going to be in order to sign up, where those lines will be, where they'll come, how they'll take a position to get an apartment as soon as possible, I really don't get it. This opens the door to corruption to me again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36296	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36297	Here, once again, the first man to sign up, we'll put him in the first apartment, and the twenty thousandth apartment in the twenty thousandth apartment, the thirty thousandth apartment in the thirty thousandth apartment, and so on. Did we establish a ranking list? You know all the criteria that could be put in that ranking list, so that could be hundreds of grounds for discrimination. This is how we wanted to equalize that ordinary soldier who's on duty somewhere in the cold that's on our patrol, the cop that's in our border police, or who's just a cop who finished high school with the generals. We want to equalize all those people who work in the defense system, because we want to protect their standards, not reward their professional careers. This isn't a reward for getting to a certain act, or for doing something. No, this protects their social standards, and we want to thank them for everything they do. Our system is, whoever logs in first, that's the first one they'll get. It's a system, and that's why we're not doing competitive documentation, but only making a public call for a list. You edit the list only on the basis of whether they have been able to meet the conditions laid down by this law, and if they have met, those who first sent it will be the first on the ranking list when the first five thousand apartments are built, means no 1500, meaning no 1700, I've heard these various numbers, which is not 26, or you can say one or none. The first five thousand apartments when we start 5203, the apartment, according to our estimate this year, can count on the first 5203 to solve its housing issue in the next two years. The next time we start building a new number of apartments, we'll say -- now we've started another two thousand, another five thousand, another seven thousand, I can't tell you now whether those 20,000 will be completed in the next four, five, or six years, but it certainly won't take 30 years. After all, many of these people are tenants much longer, in a much longer number of years and pay tenant rents. That's not worth it, there'll be about 114, 115 euros a month here for 60 squares.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36298	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36299	Mr. Minister, no one argues that they need to exercise all their rights as soon as possible and resolve the housing issue, however, that number of 5203 apartments we hear from you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic was in the Assembly last week and there was talk about the 1700 or 1800 that had already been apartments since 2019, it seems to me that construction was beginning. So, I think it's her resor, the infrastructure, I guess, and I'm surprised how you know better, or I'm surprised that the information you have is different. So, you are contradictory of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic whose portfolio it is, or perhaps, that she did not share her plans in the Government of the Republic of Serbia but elsewhere. No one argues that a housing issue needs to be resolved, that as many people as possible to exercise that right and that soldier with the lowest rank should be treated the same as the general. No problem, it just takes a little bit to get along.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36300	Thank you. The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36301	Dear President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister, respected members of the government, respected fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted two amendments to the proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces, and I will focus my discussion on two directions. One is because I'm a man who comes from local self-government, and the other one is a man from a profession that has been in the construction industry for 30 years. I have proposed these amendments as someone who comes from local self-government because for many years I have enjoyed the trust of the citizens of Surdulica and I know perfectly what it looks like on the ground when some law imposes some additional obligation on the municipality and how much trouble it has created for us for the cost-effective side of the municipality budget, which is hidden in the dinar. There may be a problem here that people in the municipality really want and want to help and support the project of housing in co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia, but that they do not have money in the municipal budget for planned and urban documents. The only solution in such a situation is that the government has a budget or budget reserve that money transfers but then it needs to be clearly and predicted. As a man of the profession, I want you on this occasion Deputy Prime Minister and the members of the government who are coming from the Department of Construction to ask, and I heard in the discussion of my colleagues that everyone advocates that domestic companies and domestic enterprises are mostly doing these apartments, but that depends on the terms of the tender. You know, Deputy Prime Minister, that sides, i.e. our roads, our big projects work all foreign companies, but these foreign companies have references and their countries because they've worked both roads and projects in their own countries, and they also have their own banks that give them guarantees to work in other countries. So I suggest that in the future we start a development bank, if a German so developed country has a development bank, then we should also start a development bank that would help our companies participate in the markets. In my experience, I'm going to point out to you, for example, the tender conditions for some of the tenders they're putting in place. For example, one of our ministries has called a tender, for buildings that are not larger than two floors, and in the tender documentation requires that the company has 100 employees in a permanent working relationship with the belief of working at a height, which is nebulosis. A project is under way in the Svilian municipality. It's a covered pool, it's a school, it's a sports hall, and it's required that a company that wants to participate in a tender has an asphalt base in its own estate or a 80km lease. The value of the project is 300 million, and the value of the asphalt is three million. And that's what's happening. It happened that the Public Enterprise Đerdap has opened a competition on Lake Vlasinski for cleaning of metal bars and is asking for a participant, i.e. a company that wants to participate, to have a large machine license. Then I have information that the Department of Construction has also given confirmation that these works require such a license. If we set such conditions, then our companies certainly cannot participate in such tenders. Or, what happens is that the tenders we're doing together from the loan are required a condition that the construction companies have a BB, and we know what the debts of the state were during the earlier period towards the construction companies and, therefore, our construction companies cannot meet the criteria of the BB and therefore cannot participate in the tender. This is why I'm asking you to take care of the terms of the tender, so that our companies can compete, to be an equal competitor with foreign companies. Since there are members of the Government and of the Ministry of Construction, in the next Law on Public Procurement we have a big problem with the issue of certificates for participation in tenders, so that individual ministries are either not issuing or late with certificates. In the Public Procurement Act, it should be stated that when the facility is completed, the technical reception is carried out, the investor issues a certificate that can be used in various public procurements, so that not every public procurement is obtained by companies that are not from Belgrade to Belgrade for such confirmations. We, as construction companies, have not heard and people ask a lot – is this VAT or VAT price? Does he have a VAT refund on those apartments, etc? I hope, as you just did, Deputy Prime Minister, you said that you liked to hear the opinion of our MPs, that you would consider these remarks as well as your own. I hope I helped design and realize this project. I thank you for listening to me and I want a successful project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36302	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandra Maletic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36303	Thank you. Honored ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, if we start from the fact that resolving the housing issue is one of the major and, of course, basic life problems today, then it is understandable that SNS with Alexander Vukic at the head and Government of the Republic of Serbia, by proposing a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces, show absolute understanding of the essential issues of Serbian citizens. This law affirms, in every sense, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which is what we propose to our amendments in different variants. As can be seen, in the government's opinion on the amendments submitted to this bill, the basic amendments that we have submitted as the SNS parliamentary group have been accepted and accepted, and I would like to express my gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Serbia which understood this political support for the general development and progress of the Republic of Serbia. Our programme, our political goal is certainly progress and development. With this law, we provide security forces who, by their responsible work, have raised general security to a higher level, to resolve their housing issues, and thus encourage even better work in this sector, the security sector. Several years back, the key words in the state of Serbia were: affairs, crime, corruption, burazer privatisation. It's different today. Today we who exercise power with pride can talk about progress, new jobs, now concretely about solving housing problems, and only those evil, this great progress of our country will not and will not see. We could see that from the discussions in the past days, but that's already their problem, we continue unconstitutionally with the restoration and development of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in voting day, I'll be happy to support these legal proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36304	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36305	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security force. For the sake of the public, i.e. for the citizens who are following this assembly debate, it is only necessary to say again that this Article 1 refers to what is the subject of the regulation of this law and to members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the Ministry of the Interior, the Security Information Agency and the Ministry of Justice, or the administration for the execution of criminal sanctions. In last week's debate, we had a set of laws relating to the defense and the BIA Act, so last week's assembly debate and the laws we adopted applied, to translate, to the military and to the security. I can and we can freely say that this law actually belongs to a set of laws relating to defence and security, in just one different way. This law, in a way, regulates logistics, i.e. support that needs to be directed towards those employed in defence or security forces, in the direction of resolving their existential issue, which is a housing issue. It is also explained that the highest number of people employed in state bodies who have not solved the housing issue refers precisely to those employed in the security forces, because for decades the basic issue of employees and therefore their families has not been resolved in this area, so that this law is rounding up a whole of all these laws relating to the security, i.e. general or general state policy of our government is strengthening national security. In order to strengthen national security, in addition to those laws that I mentioned and which were doctrinal, related to the function and organisation of the defence and security bodies, these laws actually deal with people, i.e. this law deals with people employed in these structures. By solving their existential question, we essentially provide them with security, their families and their families, and it certainly has a positive impact on both morals and on the enthusiasm of those people who are so responsible for their work and who have been unable to resolve the housing issue for decades, and we also know that many of them have retired and have not been resolved. Some opposition MPs have turned their attention with remarks why a special law on this. They are partly responsible – not only is this law adopted as special, a timely and special law on the socially endangered, but in any case, this law aims to resolve something that has not been resolved for decades. Skepsis that this is an insufficient number, and the minister has repeated several times – the first stage is 5,000 apartments. The adoption of this law is a prerequisite for some more activities to be carried out, such as investors and all that follows organisationally and what is necessary for the implementation of this plan. Of course, to be successfully realised, there is also a need for major co-operation of local self-government units, i.e. their support in all the elements already mentioned. The other side of that unit of local self-government, including the whole of the Republic of Serbia, one of the speakers has already said, should not be seen as just something that has the ultimate goal, and which is the ultimate goal of resolving the housing issue, but this increases employment, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of local self-government. So, in this way, we give economic security to certain groups of people in the construction industry, who will have jobs and who will work and earn their wages, and thus provide funds for themselves and their family. All one gave will build these 18 or 20,000 apartments for the next five, six, and ten years it will last, but it will be completed. And that is the clear intensity and purpose of this government. Everything that she started, looking at these four years, in legislation, all has its positive effects and there is no blank letter left on paper. On that behalf, me and my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, in voting day, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36306	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36307	This amendment and most of the amendments made by the members of 161 and 162. The Rules of Procedure and it is simply amazing that the committee in charge has let these amendments be discussed at all, amendments to a bill that speaks of resolutions in a special way of housing security forces and then the MP tells us that this law will contribute to the effectiveness of the education system. One says – the efficiency of courts, the other says – the efficiency of judicial institutions again, the third says – improving health care. We have been saying for days that all these areas of social life should have been covered by this law, because how can the amendment say that the law that solves the housing issues of a group of people in Serbia, and so be it, but we say that others must be covered? And the amendment states that this law gives some special conditions in health care, in education, in courts, etc. This just can't do this. We don't mind writing amendments for amendments, because it's obviously present. But this is an insult to intelligence. This is hypocritical. What, are you going to have the Government bring some regulation to order that all security employees must conclude marriages with people from education, health, education and thus contribute to improving material and housing conditions and these groups? So, these two members were injured, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36308	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dalibor Radicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36309	I thank the chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, amendment to Article 1. I would like to further specify the draft bill on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. The law itself should have been passed before. The Serbian army, as well as its members, were in a very difficult situation during a period of time. The resolution of the housing issue could not even be considered by the security forces because they were threatened by existence. The uniforms they had were in the decomposition phase and the material status was such that many left the Army. The situation is much better today. It's not ideal, but things in many segments are either fixed or already fixed. Every member of the Army has two sets of uniforms. Salaries are up 10%, and new increases are already being considered. This law creates conditions to build new apartments for security forces, which will be significantly cheaper than market value and thus resolve the existential issue of those people whose main interest is the security of the country and our citizens. In order for them to be able to do their job professionally, they need to have basic conditions for living and working, and that is what this law allows them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36310	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36311	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, MPs, we have more than 20,000 construction sites in Serbia today, which is certainly one reason for the real growth of gross social product in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period of the previous year to 4.5%. Of course, building apartments for members of the security service will contribute to the development and growth of Serbia's economy. Construction activity, measured by hours of work on construction sites of business entities in 2017 was higher by 2.4% compared to 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2017, it was 7.3 since the average of 2017. To issue building permits for the construction of favourable apartments for members of the security service, the government will take over the cost of paying cabs for the issue of construction permits. According to the number of permits issued in January 2018, construction of 1,403 apartments, with an average area of 70,2 m square. According to the permits, the number of apartments is up by 82.7% compared to January 2017. Also, in January 2018, we witnessed that 1,111 building permits were issued, which is 33% more than in January of last year. Based on the type of building in January 2018, 77.8 permits were issued for buildings and 22.2% for buildings. The construction of apartments for security officers will also affect the improvement of efficiency in the area of construction, as well as the increasing involvement of the construction industry in GDP, which is certainly one of the objectives of our government, while on the other hand ensuring a more comfortable life for members of the security service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36312	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36313	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister Stefanovic, with his associates, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 1 to add Article 3 which reads – passing the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been defined for the adoption of a draft law with special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for security forces for several reasons. First, because we believe that it is a general and national security foundation, above all, functionally every modern state, will record that about 30,000 members of the security service, which the military, which is the police, the BIA, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, which has not solved the housing issue for many years, given their conditions under which they work and the importance of the state. These are one of the main reasons why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined that through this law a specific criterion of conditions and how this large building project is implemented for members who are employed in the security forces of our country. The need to pass a special law is reflected in the fact that the implementation of the project starts simultaneously at several different locations in several different cities, requiring a systematic solution to all issues and overcoming any problems that may arise in the realisation itself. Bringing such a project is not just a solution to the housing problem and problems for members of the security forces. It is a project that will certainly lead to an additional economic recovery in construction, GDP growth and income that all local self-government will be able to collect from taxes. In voting day, I ask my distinguished and respected colleagues to support this law, of course, if they have the strength and the time, and my amendment. I thank all the MPs who voted for my amendment last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36314	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is a lex specialis compared to other laws, because this project is of importance to the national security of the Republic of Serbia. Such an immeasurable public interest and, above all, the human part seeks to systematically and permanently resolve the greatest number of cases of unresolved housing needs of security employees. This law will in the same way regulate the needs of those who are employed and those who have obtained pension rights in one of the national security authorities. In addition to addressing the housing needs of these persons, the law will boost the development of the construction sector in cities where apartments will be built, the activation of all services directly related to the building, the increase of income from property tax in local self-government areas where housing is built and significant increase in economic activity. All this would not have been possible if Serbia had not been saved from bankruptcy by bold economic reform measures and not provided for financial stability, stable GDP growth for the sixth year in a row, with the largest growth expected this year in the last ten years. Thanks to the wise, responsible and above all disciplined policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is today an economically decorated country with a surplus in the budget and on the way to development and prosperity, and for these reasons there have been conditions to secure a financial structure to secure this extremely important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36316	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36317	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment in the far line refers to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and in my speeches I like to mention the city from which I come, so I will talk about the shift of the railway that passes through the centre of Nis. This used to be just the level of some idea, wish or plan. Today we are witnessing the realization of a major project that is now part of the city of Nis. I would return to September 2017 when a public debate was held that was attended by the owners of facilities and parcels that would later succumb to expropriation. Representatives of the city and the European Investment Bank also attended. At that time, certain things are said that are very important for the citizens of Nis, and especially for those whose parcels are on that track that will be changed, which is that the owners of these immovableities must in no way be damaged and then it is said that they will invest a certain amount of money, both the city of Nis, as a unit of local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. In order to build a two-way bypass around Nis, 22km long, it takes an expropriation of 1,628 plots and 47 objects on a move from the village of Popovac to the village of Prosec on the territory of the municipality of Pantelej. Otherwise, I have to say that the railway bypass around Nis is part of a major project, which is the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway, and it is a project that is worth hundreds of millions of euros again. At this point, what would interest the citizens of Nis is how long it's been gone and I'm going to tell the information that's been somewhere since early April. So, about 1,500 expropriation solutions have been made, about 1,200 have already become legal, so we can say from the city of Nis that the end of the process is expected just at the end of the year. This is another big project for Nis. I would take the opportunity to thank the Minister and the Ministry again for the fact that the city of Nis is once again part of a major project that will, in particular, solve the problems of citizens who existed years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36318	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Stanja Compirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36319	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the primary goal and task is to create a society that believes in itself and its possibilities. That is why the government recognised the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces, recognising difficulties that can arise in the realisation of access to a specific law aimed at the successful and efficient realization of the project itself. Given the importance and responsibilities of security forces, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, taking into account the fact that the largest number of unresolved housing needs among security forces, which have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades, is therefore proposed by the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of professional security, and it is necessary that the realisation of the project begin in several different cities, taking into account Nis, Vranje, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Belgrade, and requires a systematic solution to all issues and overcoming the problems that can arise in the realisation itself. In Article 1 The bill adds Article 3 which reads that the adoption of the law provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the judiciary and will contribute to better implementation of the same promotion and lead to better business success. We are building an efficient society, ready to respond to challenges and require citizens to respect the rule of law and a better business environment. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is created through a coherent programme of measures and activities that the state takes and its realisation creates assumptions for the political, social, cultural and overall state development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36320	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36321	Dear Chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, last week we participated in a debate on an extremely important law, which will allow our security forces to resolve their housing issue in the coming period. In the debate, we found all the details that the law provides for, and I will now look back at Article 1 of this law, proposing my amendment with a view to the growth of the economy. The building of apartments will begin in August, and will be built in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Vranja, Kralje and Kragujevac. I must stress that the price of 500 euros per square does not mean that there will be a threat to the quality of construction, but that the state has carried out responsiblely and gave up some of the profits, and has put everything in a position to solve a burning problem and has ensured that all those who do not have a settled housing issue can resolve it in accordance with this law. By buying an apartment through banks, along with more favourable housing loans, the state provides new funds that also serve as the next construction contingent for new members of the security service. The launch of such a large project will also have our construction operation, so income will also be realised for companies that will build these apartments. Of course, there will be a reduction in the unemployment rate, as well as an increase in GDP. The draft special law on building apartments for members of security services is in line with all ministries. In the end, I must add that those who daily care about our safety deserve to think about them and make their lives the way they deserve them. I call on my colleagues to accept my amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36322	Thank you. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36323	I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to launch this large and human project of building apartments for members of the security forces. It is estimated that this project will build around 20,000 apartments in the next period, including military pensioners, which is indeed one encouragement for that category of our citizens to address one of the two key issues of every family, every citizen, and that is the issue of housing. Also, it is very positive that the price per square metre will be really favourable and it will not cross more than 500 euros per square metre in Belgrade, and I assume that in other Serbian cities the price will be even lower. Also, the project will contribute to strengthening our construction sector, while at the same time increasing our GDP. I believe that in the government, it is thought that such a similar project is applied to other categories of population, because this really is a key issue when citizens know that they are finally living in their apartment, even though they are paying for the month's war, that they are paying their state, or bank, and not paying their monthly rent for years and decades and throwing money into the well. Many unfortunately, in the previous period, including the biggest war victims in the former Yugoslavia, hundreds of thousands of refugees, exiled Serbs, have thrown tens of thousands of euros and marks for nothing remain tens of them. What is good, what the government has launched this project, I repeat the construction of 20,000 apartments for members of the security forces, and already the implementation of a large, same human project is under way, resolving the key issue of integration of hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs, which is resolving their housing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36324	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radet, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36325	I am now reporting on the basis of Article 159, and I am warning the Proposer's representative that it would be best to withdraw this proposal in accordance with Article 2(2), because imagine God not to adopt these amendments, such as this one earlier, what kind of papacy would be created in this bill, or later, of the law. So it's pretty logical, Minister, that you'll accept amendments from MPs who voted to be ministers, and their amendments, I repeat, if they were accepted, then this would really be a miracle of legal text. Mr. Linta said in his amendment that adopting this law would especially improve the rights of refugees and exiled persons, and this is simply amazing. This is a Lex specialization for a special part of our security company. Instead of Mr. Linta asking himself and asking the minister and before this law he argued with all his might and the power to fit into this law the fallen fighters of the last wars, the disabled of the last country wars, the families of the fallen fighters, the military homeless, all of them, unfortunately the faces are mostly displaced, mostly the persons expelled from their hearths, they are not in this law. In order for this injustice to be corrected, and indeed with all the amendments that the proposing representative will possibly adopt to make it necessary for this law to be applied tomorrow, when voted on, to be applied to the 159th of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36326	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36327	In addition to what we've been saying, so there's a new law on housing and housing support that provides for special housing care for fighters, disabled people and other categories of our population that are in it, so we've been thinking about these categories of population, along with regular members of security forces. So both the disabled and the fighters of previous wars have in the new law the opportunity to reach apartments. Thanks for the support we're doing. As far as these amendments are concerned, the National Assembly is certainly loud enough to vote on each of these amendments, certain that MPs will vote as they always do, as they wish. That minister can't get too involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36328	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36329	First, Mr. Milicevic, I think you had to take away Mrs. Radeti for two minutes because she had advertised for the second time, or allegedly pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure that didn't happen at all. SNS lawmakers have submitted amendments in their best interest, in good faith to affirm all the positive results that the Serbian government has taken and which it has achieved when it comes to the overall security sector in the Republic of Serbia, and I think it is at least incorrect to comment in one hypocritical way on amendments submitted by SNS lawmakers. I listened very carefully to one of the MPs belonging to Ms. Verica Radeta, who said she was against this bill, because if you make apartments for members of the military and the police, and there's a bombing, then the aggressor will bomb these buildings where members of the military and the police live, and then there's whiteness, which our people would say, what we did then. Of course, the amendment is completely pointless, the explanation is even more pointless, but it didn't occur to me to intervene. People think it's an amendment that affirms their policy and I kept my mouth shut. You are already allowing SNS MPs to make a mockery because they have submitted amendments that make it clear that this bill will not only have positive effects on strengthening the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia, because it is certain that the work of a soldier, a police officer, a member of the Criminal Sanctions Administration, which has a resolved housing issue but one that is not there, but a whole series of other positive effects that this law will cause, above all, to grow domestic construction industry, value added tax, the state will achieve far greater revenues, local self-government will achieve far greater revenues, we will fix the standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will revive many other aspects of economic life in the Republic of Serbia. So this bill and how it's affected. It's not just someone who doesn't want to see it or who's malicious. Of course, when we have more money in the budget, we will also improve the state of education workers and health workers and all other people who are employed in the state structures of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to interfere with your session, don't just say that when the amendments of the SRS parliamentary group come up again, every SNS MP will report to the Rules of Procedure and say that these amendments are pointless. Then we'll bring this session to a very delicate stage from which I don't know how you think you're getting out. As president of the parliamentary group, I kept my mouth shut twice, I was present in the O.R., and I deliberately did not respond, but you seem to tolerate the abuse of reporting after the injury of the Rules of Procedure that never happened at all. It's just that there's a little talk that's a little bit of a snide. You know, here people who have personal animosities to SNS deputies show these animosities when it comes to amendments. We all know that Mrs. Radeta has some personal animosity towards Mr. Linta, and whenever a man answers his word, she reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as I'm concerned... (The People's Messenger, the Witch of Radeta, throws out of town. Here, now my mother mentions it to me. Okay, thank you. As for the evasive and exiled faces. Well, I guess there are security forces among the members of the security forces that come from the territory of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose parents came as refugees or exiled persons in the Republic of Serbia, so by force of opportunity and it is certain that this law will solve both the housing issue and their families. So the SNS amendments absolutely have ties to each other and are connected to one comprehensive system. I also want to point out to you as the chairman and citizens of Serbia, so that SNS MPs were thoroughly preparing when they wrote these amendments, that all amendments made sense and that we made sure that when the construction of cheap and favourable apartments for members of the security forces began soon, that this would produce multiple positive and economic and social effects on the overall social, economic and social life in the Republic of Serbia. Those amendments are written with that intention. They're not meant to make fun of anyone, to cause any controversy or to offend anyone. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and not to allow SNS MPs here to be demeaned, just because they have submitted amendments to affirm a good and successful policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to show that these amendments will solve problems, many problems, which in Serbia are not solved decades ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36330	My friend Becic, did you want to pick up... ? Excuse me. Just a minute. Mr Martinovic, you know very well that I never dispute and that it is the legitimate right of every MP, and of the positions and opposition, to submit an amendment and that at no time, in any amendment, I have not said a qualification that the amendment is meaningless. I'm trying, but it's very difficult at all times not to let you... (Alexander Martinovic: It's not hard, it takes two minutes. It's nothing difficult. No, I agree with you here. Do not let at certain times try to violate the dignity of the National Assembly, which I do not mean a specific case. I don't really want to favor MPs or opposition MPs, and my obligation was simply to let anyone report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure talk about it. I agree with you that at a certain point in time when you were reporting, it was like a dialogue, or a replica. I did not use the right that the Rules of Procedure allow me for one simple reason, because I really felt that this debate should continue in one spirit of tolerance, in a democratic spirit, and I hope that we will do so in the continuation of today's working day. Mr. Mircic, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36331	I'm advertising Article 106. Of course, Mr. Chairman, the debate can't always be under control. I understand the reaction of the president of the SNS parliamentary group, but when the Institute of Rules is used, then it doesn't have to mean that it's a personal account. Sometimes MPs use advertising, injuring the Rules of Procedure for reasons to point out the mistakes that some colleagues make when interpreting the amendment, when they have some of their own statements. To resent, to go into these details, to such small things to say because of some words that are not an appropriate opposition or anyone who has any bad intentions when it comes to this law really has no justification. We all here want to solve this problem of members of the security forces, from that intent we speak of the SRS. Just a moment for Philip Stojanovic, if I may. I'd break up, so you finish your conversation. So no one has any evil intentions here. Maybe sometimes there's a sentence that doesn't fit. Radeta's lady, not for the reason I'm justifying her for not knowing the Rules of Procedure, but only to complete Mr. Linta's presentation. If it was gnarled with some words that weren't suitable for a person, I didn't notice. She wanted to say that it should have been taken care of, as Mr. Linta is recognizable by representing the Serbian people's corps that was exiled from Krajina, that people who are wounded and people who are former members of the Republika Srpska Army, etc. It wasn't an evil intention, and especially we Serbian radicals have nothing personal, we don't have personal hatred for anyone. We only resent those who stole our mandates so they won't return.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36332	I thank my colleague Mircic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, first Aleksandar Martinovic, and then the violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Lint. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36333	Therefore, Article 103, paragraph 8, says - in the case of the position of the 7th member, the President of the National Assembly is required that the time used by the MP using the right of the position of the 1st member, subtracts from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current agenda point if his parliamentary group remains time to search. So, this is what I meant by Mr Milicevic, if you have introduced as a standard in the work of the National Assembly that, after each amendment of the SNS MPs, one of the MPs of the SRS will come forward and point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then let me, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, if you do not want to do so, have the right to protect my colleagues and then I will tell them that whenever any of the SRS MPs comes forward to explain their amendment, that people report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and comment on the amendments submitted by their colleagues from the SRS. I don't want you to bring a session into such a phase, because then I don't know how you're gonna get out of it. The SNS parliamentary group and my colleagues sitting here are not a punching bag to anyone. I, as president of the parliamentary group, will not allow it. The amendments are written so that they make sense. The amendments are related to each other. After all, all those who are very smart, who care about different categories of Serbian citizens, I ask them a question, why not worry about them when they were in power and when they were in a position to solve their problems, but now that we're the government in the Republic of Serbia and we've reached a rather difficult job that hasn't been solved in Serbia for years, there are now various suggestions – and why didn't you do this, and why didn't you do it and why the 20,000 apartments won't be built tomorrow? Because it's not possible, but if it's been built in the past 10, 15, 20 years, we wouldn't be in the situation we're in today. Therefore, I ask you to respect this Rules of Procedure, not to allow its abuse, otherwise SNS MPs and how they will be able to respond to what is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36334	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the injury displayed? Not this time. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36335	I don't understand why Mrs. Radeti is bothering my active struggle to solve a number of problems hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs not only from the Krajina area, but from the urban part of Croatia, from the Federation of BiH, of course from Kosovo and Metohija. I don't understand why she hates me. I think I do my job honestly, honestly, openly, to do everything in my power to help solve the key issue of hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs. Of course my amendment was submitted with the aim of contributing to the quality of this law. It is well known that among 20,000 security forces, there are a significant number of military pensioners who were members of the Republika Srpska Army, that have a significant number of members of both the police and the Serbian Army. So this law will allow in one significant part solving the key problems of that population. I strongly welcome Minister Stefanovic's statement, I hope it will be very soon to pass a similar law, a Lex specialise, and to take into account two other priority target groups, which are families of fallen fighters and are wartime military people with disabilities. These are two categories among the exiled Serbs who have been particularly injured, and we must indeed pay particular attention to them, as a state. It is unfortunate that we have waited more than 20 years for this issue to be resolved and related to the security forces and related to the exiled Serbs, but it is good that this government has finally begun to solve this problem, but it has begun to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36336	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the injury displayed? Just one more time, please, which member did you list? (Miodrag Linta: On Article 107, I do not want to vote.) I thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. After the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Replication on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, this was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Miss Radeta: Can I do the amendment? ) After the amendment, only colleague Radoslav Milojic appeared before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36337	Mr. Chairman, I hope that you will not succumb to the pressures that come from the opposite side and that you will remain objective about the discussion whether MPs or MPs of the opposition enter the discussion. On the other hand, if you may ask, since direct address is prohibited, Minister Stefanovic, who is also vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and also vice-president or senior SNS official, that all ministers and prime ministers go to education at the SNS parliamentary club about the writing of the law. I don't think it makes sense that any law proposed here by the SNS government by SNS MPs who are ruling propose more than 600 amendments. This is of course done for reasons to prevent the opposition from discussing these laws. But these are extremely important topics for us to treat them in ways that are not appropriate. Yes, the DS wants all members of the security sector, whether they work at the Ministry of Defence or the BIA, to get a roof over their heads. I asked a question I didn't get an answer to, and for the third time, I'm asking that question, how will a member of the Ministry of Defense who works for an average salary of 35,000 dinars to set aside 40,000 euros and provide their own and their families with an apartment? It's a specific question about this law. We hear it's built in three cities, in Nis, that it's built in the King and built in Vranj. We support decentralisation, but will members of the security sector who do not live in Vranj, and in Vranj a building is built out of how many hundreds of apartments will have to transfer their residence, their jobs and get a job in Vranj so they can use it? I think it is more concrete, more correct, more successful, more meaningful for members of the security sector to increase their incomes, so that these people, by risking their lives, provide us and our borders, decide where they will start with their family, both work relations, and create a place and decide which city they will live in. On the other hand, we have complete incompatibility between the number of members who finish the police academy with the number that is received in the organs of the MUP. I'd like to ask Minister Stefanovic another question, because he didn't answer me last, of course, what happens to Article 172 and the presumption of innocence? Is it normal for educated and educated personnel who finish the police academy to have no guaranteed job and why no compatibility is established between the number of members who finish the police academy with the number needed to hire at the MUP, because I think it's a specific and very sensitive activity, that these people who finish the police academy are seriously trained, professionally, qualified for the very job they've been trained for. And then the state tells them, well, you know, you can't work in the MUP sector and then they do all kinds of other jobs besides the jobs they've been trained for and for which the state has invested in their education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36338	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Ministry of Interior, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36339	Let's start with the last question, first of all it's not true. First, the Criminal Police Academy is an open-source facility, so the state doesn't invest in everything. Someone's in school self-financing because they want to finish the KP. If 800 people from the KP are now being educated, and now it's four years from now that 800 officers in the police needing, say, 120? Let's take 120, we even took these young people who ended in 2010, 2011 and 2012, so they didn't get a job and we receive them, and now they have the same priority as the law. Of course, unfortunately, we have a situation where they're not there, because there aren't as many jobs as they've finished, because we haven't made a human plan. We make it very clear. Our personnel plan means, say, four years from now, we need 72 police officers, we don't need 172, but that doesn't stop those kids from enrolling the KP and finishing up. Then you come and say, "They don't have a job right now." I can't provide for everyone, because if we all finished the KP, we'd have 100,000 people who ended the KP. We just don't need that much. It also applies to apartments. It's not the police and the military that's gonna start a working relationship where they want to, it's where the state needs it. The state determines where she needs them and how many members and the military and the police. It's a matter of state. The state says, in Vranj, we need so much, in Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, in Valjevo, in Koserić, Šapec. We will create in all the places where the needs of the apartment are shown, but we have also made priorities to build first where there are least, therefore, where at least there are apartments for members of the Army, the police relatively many reported, and Belgrade will begin very soon. For example, where the largest number of needs for members is also presented, which is logical, there is the largest number of people working and the largest number of people, 23% of the population in Serbia actually lives in Belgrade. We'll try to keep it everywhere and just say, the price of apartments, so the initial salary of a policeman is about 50,000 dinars. It is the first salary without any work experience, when it enters a working relationship with high school – 49,980 dinars. This is the first salary, and 114 euros a month would be a 60-square loan, and much more expensive will pay rent for the apartment. So this law certainly makes it easier for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36340	Thank you. My colleague, Žarić Kovačević, I apologize, I have not seen you point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36341	I thank the chairman. I just called about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's correct to break the Rules of Procedure this way. First, there is a member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. We have heard here that the government endures no amendments, and what is now terrible is that the MPs of the SNS Group are submitting amendments, but we also heard that ministers should come to us for training, to know what laws to write. I'm interested in whom the minister, while Minister Sutanovac, went after instructions on how to write laws. On the other hand, Article 106 was injured. – The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not give me the opportunity to always report to Nis and to always point out how the DS ruled the Nis. But I will say, which is in line with this bill, that I can only be satisfied that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is investing this much in Nis, because in that place that was bombed in 1999, in the site of the “Stevan Sidelic” barracks, 188 apartments of security forces will now be built. For these reasons, I will not abuse the Rules of Procedure, to enter replicas, but for these reasons I would only ask you to at least warn people to speak, or MPs, of the agenda point. I'm not gonna ask you to vote this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36342	counterpart Žarić Kovacevic, it is very difficult to direct the presentation of MPs. Mostly the majority of MPs have one broader context of seeing the amendments they have submitted, but I thank you for the suggestion. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Jelena Žarić Kovacevic: No. I thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36343	The mention of the party and the parliamentary groups, Mr. Chairman. Since someone here has referred again to the question of our parliamentary group and the amendments that we have put up with, that in the O.R. by chance these days, as it is not, you would know, if that were any kind of problem. Again, the problem seems to be four to five times more on the side of those who resent us. So, in total, as far as I can see here, 2,400 amendments and one-sixth is about to be brother to the brothers of the SNS MPs. If that's any problem, you know, you're still mad at yourself four to five times as much as you are at us. As for understanding between us as parliamentary groups and government, our amendments are being accepted by the government and you would also know that you are present at this session by chance, but it's not a problem, it's something you can discover, you have a chance to find out by the end of this session. There will be more such amendments to the members who are just ahead of us in the further debate. On the subject of business in this country, it's already top-notch hypocrisy. Supreme hypocrisy, because what the SNS is doing right now is opening up opportunities for people to do jobs right now, 170 thousand new jobs. This is the direct result of those governments supported by the SNS and when those who are very concerned about freedom are sometimes asked what it is, and I don't believe they're wondering about anything they say out loud, freedom is just the possibility of a choice. They once, without any right to choose, forced them into the street. We are today responding to options to choose both perspectives and this is also about production plants, factories, and opportunities for the state of Serbia. It's something we give them, and they can't respect those who did absolutely anything the opposite. At the very end, the issue of consultation, understanding between our party's officials. I see that as a kind of envy. Envy of the fact that we have a party, we have officials that we can talk to by those who are either in resignations or those who are not, are so broken to each other in components, to different groups that are not submitted to each other, that it is no longer, so that we do not lie to ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36344	Thank you, colleague Orlic. By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36345	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I have just wanted to support all the amendments of the SNS, because I believe that the increased work of the SNS MPs to correct the bad draft laws made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very useful, and in this sense when the ruling majority submits hundreds of thousands of amendments to the laws proposed by their authority, then it says that their power is working badly and I really fully support all fellow MPs from the ranks of the government who submit amendments to the government's legislative proposals, because it corrects the poor legal solutions that help the government. At one point, however, I wondered whether I should do it anyway because I saw that in the Continuity the Government rejected all the amendments made by the MPs of the government, from which I concluded that they were making some bad amendments, that these amendments were no good, because no single amendment had ever accepted the government, and then I thought about whether to run that logic, because I guess the government knows what it was doing, I guess the government knows that these amendments are bad, that nothing contributes to the quality of the law, that they were actually pointless, that they were just a waste of time and that they used to obstruct Parliament's work, that the opposition had less time. Maybe citizens who watch this transmission don't understand why the SNS submits amendments, but we are obliged to tell them that the reason for this is that they eat all the time that follows for the parliamentary debate and that at one of our speeches they can have 100 of their amendments and speeches and thus eat all the time for the assembly debate. So here is the key dilemma of who is right, the government or the ruling majority in parliament, because they are constantly at war among themselves. The government has passed laws, lawmakers are correcting those laws. The government will not accept any of their amendments as good, because they are obviously all bad, and they continue to submit amendments at new sessions. I don't know, Mr Stefanovic, are you at the government discussing these amendments to your MPs from the ruling majority? Don't you find it strange that they make so many amendments for you? Are you thinking about whether your laws might be bad or if you're all playing a very directed show, in which every two minutes he will commend President Vukic, the Government, the SNS and pretend he has submitted the amendment? Wait, you may have inherited it from your President, Alexander Vukic, a talent for acting and theatre performances, but it's not parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36346	Mr. Obradovic, did you report for amendment to Article 1?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36347	So, what is the key question here, Mr. Minister, is whether this law corrects injustices against Serb security forces, which you cannot even call the Serbian security forces, which are completely forgotten in some previous period and at what rate will this injustice be corrected? I'm talking about all those who participated in the country wars from 1991 to 1999. Many of them protest to this day. They haven't been paid their war logs, they haven't solved medical and social assistance. We're the only country in an environment that doesn't have a law that treats war veterans, and even with this bill, we don't treat the possibility that war veterans, the families of the dead and the wartime wartime disabled will eventually come to an end. So this is now a very serious question that I think you are obliged to answer – when will a comprehensive legal solution, not a Lex specialise, such as this case, solve the issue of all Serb war veterans? You forgot about them. In Serbia alone, they do not have a law that treats their problems. Now, another question is raised here – how will members of the active Serbian security forces be able to acquire the right to buy these apartments, where banks, with what fees, fees, interest and any other robberies that banks are making here in this country over Serbian citizens? That it will not happen to be repeated loans indexed in Swiss francs, for which today more than 20,000 families in Serbia live in debt slavery to banks? It doesn't appear in the law here, and I haven't heard in any of your amendments that you explained it. Where is the contribution of this law to making it easy to get credit and credit on favourable terms, so that these apartments can be bought at all? What's the most controversial thing for us here, and I haven't heard the same thing in your reasons for the amendments, and that's why I'm not going to support them in the end, because I'm counting on your government to know well that they're pointless, and that's why you're constantly refusing all your amendments, is that exactly why you didn't come out to meet this key topic that made you come to power, which is to fight crime and corruption? So, what are the tenders going to look like to get those who are going to build these apartments? That we won't have another Lex specialise on what "Belgrade on Water" was, which is really just a space for crime and corruption? We don't have to do every good thing we want to do, to ruin it because that possibility of getting jobs is only going to get close to the SNS companies or that only those who are members of the SNS will be able to get a job in this country? I asked you that, Mr. Minister, and your predecessor here, and I didn't get an answer to the question, can anyone in Serbia live and work for anyone who isn't a member of the SNS? Can anyone who is not a member of the SNS be employed by any public institution or company?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36348	Mr. Obradich, let's get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36349	So I absolutely support the SNS's efforts and their amendments to correct the bad legal solutions given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can't understand why the Government of the Republic of Serbia never accepted any amendments to so many thousands of SNS amendments? Well, because they're bad and pointless. So, I didn't say your amendments were bad and pointless. That's what your government said, which has rejected all your amendments, and every time it refuses you all your amendments because they're bad and pointless. If one of them had been good, the government would have accepted it. So you have no problem with the opposition when we tell you that your amendments are pointless and bad, but with the government, with Minister Stefanovic. Here's the minister here. Why don't you ask him why you keep refusing your amendments? Because they are bad and pointless, because they serve only to obstruct the work of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36350	Comrade Obradovic, and let's get back to Article 1. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36351	Article 107 Mr. Milicevic. We have no problem with Bosko Obradovic. Bosko Obradovic, seems to have a problem with himself. He has a problem with the fact that to finance the Dwri movement at the DSS, machines in the Colubara had to work 28 hours a day. At the time of the DS, to fund the Dvori Movement from the state budget, Dvori was financed as one segment of the diaspora, and then in the period between 2008 and 2012, instead of the apartments for members of the Army and police, state funds went to the Dvora budget from the Ministry of Diaspora. As for this insistence on resolving the Serbian security forces problem, we are solving the problem. The problem is that at a time when Bosko Obradovic with the DSS was in power, the problem was not solved. A question has been asked here, and who can be employed in Serbia? Well, Bosko Obradovic can be employed, a man employed in the city library in Cačka. Is he a member of the SNS? It's not. Is he busy? Yes, it is. So people can be hired even if they're not members of the SNS. As for the tender and the tampering with the tenders, well, that's what Bosko Obradovic perfected. He perfected the robbery of his own political party by pumping money out of his party, including fictitious contracts with companies whose owners are its committees or candidates from his parliamentary list, and instead of returning money to the state budget, he accepted the money for himself. He is now giving us a lecture on this – which does not say "Serbian security forces". Well, if he were asked, he would write about "German security forces, Bulgarian security forces, and Croatian security forces", because he is working with them. He with the Serbian security forces has no touch points.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36352	Thank you. You ordered your colleague Martinović to be a member of 107. It's about direct address, I assume that's what you meant when you pointed out dignity, of course, but above all direct address to the MPs. If you have noticed, I have repeatedly suggested that my colleague Obradovic return to the amendment to Article 1. Obviously, I couldn't do it. I ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic: No. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 106, with the support of Bosko Obradovic. Namely, Bosko Obradovic spoke of everything, except for the subject, which would give you the opportunity to tolerate it since he did not bring false, false data here, and even lead to a violation of Parliament's dignity, and lead the public astray. Namely, he said that here, Malten, there is no opportunity to say the free word, etc. With this in mind, I must introduce you to the fact that the opposition that makes up 1/3 of this House has reported a total of 6,500 times to this day in this assembly. The government that makes 2/3 of parliament has done it 4,500 times. So, according to the MP, the hair used it less than 25 times, the opposition had 70 and several times. His parliamentary group 120 and spoke several times, or five times more than the government. Now, if someone doesn't know how to use time when reporting, that's his problem. Also, as regards the submission of the amendment, false information has been made. The opposition submitted five times more amendments and none of their amendments were meaningful, nor were they intended, or 90% of the situation intended to correct the government's proposal. We watched as he failed to promote himself, his parliamentary knowledge, and I personally began when I saw that he had nothing special to tell the people, that he had no ideas that should be promoted, except for those "ljotics", I decided that it was better for us to promote our ideas, ideas of the ruling coalition, and thus to promote the very MPs who belong to the ruling coalitions themselves. With this, Bosko Obradovic is obviously angry, since he can no longer propose to his pointless amendments and his pointless discussions, that is to say, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not asking you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36354	Col. Rističević, it is simply impossible for any chairman to have all the data and facts that you have presented at any moment, so you are here to point out that. I thank you for that information. As far as I'm concerned, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: No. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marija Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36355	I thank the chairman. I suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. You are required to take care of the order at this session and that the Rules of Procedure are respected. On several occasions, you have made it possible for the ruling majority MPs to actually use damage to the Rules of Procedure for replication. I believe that this abuse, instead of apologizing to them why you did not interrupt Boško Obradovic's exposure, you should actually end up taking away their time from the parliamentary group. As for the promotions of various and different lies that everyone here in the regime group can say about the Dwarves, and then the Davers don't get a chance to say what's really true, I really have nothing else to say but to stop the promotions at all, but to get to the works. It's concrete work. You know who has power in their hands, who can finally start their pre-election promises back through many election cycles, finally start and keep them. As for the work of the Dvori, we have a successful family week. We as the opposition party did what we did.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36356	What did I hurt the Rules of Procedure in?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36357	As for the money we had previously received for various projects, no one is talking about "Eutanasia" that Dvori pointed to a devastating path to the EU as early as 2008. That's where the money went, to Euthanasia magazine. I invite you to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36358	I thank my colleague Janjušević. My colleague Janjušević, I think you have recently joined the session, I don't mean anything by it, but I'm sorry that you haven't heard the finding of the ruling majority for a moment. The ruling majority says I allow MPs of the opposition to use the violation of the Rules of Procedure and thus use their right to do so. You say that's what MPs do to the ruling majority. So, colleague Janjusevic, you see that we have been trying to find one balance all along and, as I said, continue with the democratic debate and the democratic confrontation of opinions. Whether someone was talking about the agenda or not, I ask you to get everyone out of your MP group. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Maria Janjušević: No. No, no, no, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36359	Thank you, Chairman. You are constantly in violation of Article 27, which in paragraph 2, says that the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. You just don't do it, because you allow, not just you, but all the chairmans of the National Assembly for months and years back here to have my name and name, my family and my dignity insulted in every way possible and imagine it in any way. Not as human and parliamentary in one discussion and in one serious debate, but through the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You allow yourself to report, I don't know, ten MPs from the government in the form of violations of the Rules of Procedure, and through this they deal with Bosko Obradovic, my family, my employment and in many different ways slandering and lying. Look, you've allowed this to happen to Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, who publicly lied about where I work today, although as chairman of the Administrative Committee, through whom we all as MPs exercise all our rights, he knows perfectly where I work today. It's no big deal that she's publicizing on a direct television broadcast where I work today. So that kind of unscrupulousness, immorality, and insolence that you're simply publicly lying to something that you know perfectly that's not true. That says everything's allowed. Mr. Chairman, if all is permitted, then please allow us to be allowed, too, because you cannot allow anyone to insult and mention here all the most incredible lies about the Two. None of their claims have ever been proven. There's never one single piece of evidence. No one's ever prosecuted Dwri. No one has ever prosecuted us. There is no affair or stain behind us, but when someone 24 hours repeats it in the Assembly, on "Pink", "Hepiu" and I don't know where everyone else, the people may believe it, but at least you protect our dignity and allow, if you can't do anything else, at least answer through the replica, and how if we don't have the right to replication, to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36360	Thank you. As you can see, you are allowed to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I haven't interrupted you for a moment, but I would like to remind you that in this case you have specifically caused replication and violation of the Rules of Procedure. You spoke in a broader context of what was not the topic and the point of the agenda. You have gone beyond the scope of a specific article 1 and you have specifically insulted and mentioned both the president of the state and the president of the SNS and not to mention who else. So if you want to change something, go first, and expect it from others. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Yeah. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36361	Article 108, Mr. Milicevic. This is a schematic showing you that the robbery of your own party called the Serbian Movement Dveri – four million dinars, three million dinars, 201,000 dinars, the enterprise store "Mintel" Borca, "Flux com" Borca, Branislav Simidzija MK Tel Belgrade, "Velux" d.o.o. Belgrade, all owners of companies that were committees or candidates for committees on the list of the Serbian Dvori Movement. That's one proof. Another proof, he says – lies Martinovic, lies to those from the SNS, did not finance us yellow etc., here is your 2010 contract concluded between "Ninamedia Klipping" d.o.o. Novi Sad, Duke of Misic 9, represented by the lady who spoke briefly by Marija Janjusevic, director and municipality of Indji, represented by Mr. Goran Jesic, president of the Indji municipality. The contract is otherwise, let me tell you, under Article 5, concluded in the euro. They, you know, don't like the EU, but the euros they love, so it's a miracle. It's a miracle. Be careful, Goran Jesic in Vojvodina has at least a hundred companies that can take you out of that daily press clipping for one municipality and he has just chosen a company where Mrs. Marija Janjusevic, a member of Dveri, is the director. Now you tell me it's an accident and it has nothing to do with financing the Dvori by various parties of the former regime and the DSS and DS. As for Mr. Obradovic's job, I heard today he's a professor and we need him to teach, finish, in Serbian language and literature, so I asked him where he teaches? He's not teaching anywhere. He works in the National Assembly, and before that he worked in the Chachai library. He never worked as a professor of Serbian language and literature.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36362	Thank you. Since the debate is going on in an unwanted manner, and I think we're getting too far from what's the agenda point, in accordance with Article 112, we're going to take a five-minute break, and then we're going to continue with the amendments. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36364	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, does not share members of the security sector and each works on exactly the same job, regardless of whether it is in the Ministry of Defence, agencies or a member of the Serbian Army. Everyone together is guarding this country and doing hard and responsible work, and therefore their housing needs must be resolved together. Building apartments for the security sector is one of the most important measures of the government to solve a key problem for people who are doing important work for our country and our citizens. I mean, the police, the military and the VBA, the prison guards, the ones that make us feel safe, and they have insufficient incomes, and they can hardly afford to solve the housing issue in the long run. Our job is to take care of them. The government's goal is, if cops and soldiers are educated, they're investing more and more in their education, then they should stay in the military and the police. Apartments under favourable conditions are the way the state tries to preserve those people whose education has invested a lot of energy, money to prevent them from leaving Serbia. It is also intended to improve the standard of living for members of the security sector, pay them to grow, and this way they can plan their families. It's important that we strengthen the security sector, the security services. The government has increased their salaries 10%, given a bonus of 10,000 dinars and continued with that trend this year. I want us all to understand how hard and dangerous things they do. Now that the threat to the security of citizens has been strengthened around the world, it is important that we strengthen all capacity of the security sector and therefore thank you, Mr. Minister Stefanovic, because you invest a great amount of energy in restoring the material and operational resources of the security sector, as the secretary of the National Security Bureau. The government also wants to say thank you to the security services, which do hard and dangerous work. This strengthens security forces, strengthens GDP, and also builds and construction companies. For the construction industry, this means a lot. Two million square meters are scheduled to be built and domestic firms will have a lot of work to do. It will work on the production of bricks, creps, carpentry, floors, water pipes, electricity and all that is needed to build one residential building. The mass of workers will be employed and it will not be short-term jobs, for a month or two, but long-term, for a few years. Times have passed in which only promises, robbery and destruction were made in Serbia. Serbia can finally say it has regained its international reputation. For economic growth and a stable economic environment, the government's policy is to strengthen its military industry and fight crime and corruption. And why not say that – that the engine of all reforms is our President Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36365	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36366	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Because of those who have not explained their amendments but are commenting on the amendments of the Serbian Progressive Party, I will have to read my amendment: "Article 1 of the proposed law adds Article 3 which reads: "The adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving sustainable development". “ Since a fellow commenting on everything does not know that the first part of my amendment has been proposed as a special amendment by counterpart Vlad Orlic, and that amendment has been adopted by the government, so it is not true what it says is that no amendment has been adopted. Secondly, they probably don't even know what sustainable development is. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia who is working towards the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, that this is a very important topic and that my amendment is in fact supporting the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in all efforts for us to live here a normal life of a man who has the opportunity to work, to create and live. That is exactly what the summit that was held in Sofia the other day is about, where one of the very important topics at the EU and Western Balkan countries was economic and sustainable development. That this is a very important topic talking about the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations, which as one of its 19 goals is currently treating the goal – sustainable cities and communities. This aims to improve the inclusive sustainable urban organisation and capacity for integrated and sustainable urban planning and management and settlements by 2030. Their conclusion is that cities and human settlements should be made inclusive, safe and sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36367	Thank you. Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36368	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would like to express my regret that Mr. Bosko LJotic, excuse me, Obradovic, left the hall. Looks like the show's over. So after decades of military and police degradation, which went even to the point where military members lived in barracks and refugee camps and police officers as tenants or single hotels, these people will first show respect, thanks to this government. Given the importance of the work they do for our country, the least we can do is give these people a decent life for them and their families. People who have subjected their lives to the preservation of the country must be relieved of concerns about the conditions in which their family lives. We, SNS MPs, not only support this project, but we are also very proud to participate in it. The second thing to stress is that domestic materials and equipment will be used to build them, including at least 80%, which is very important for our economy and the continuity of its development. According to the finance ministry, developments in construction significantly affect overall growth. In the last quarter of 2017, an annual growth in the value of works carried out in construction was registered at 18.7%. In the first two months of 2018, an annual growth in cement production of 60.5% and a growth in production of other non-metallic minerals of 43.1% was recorded. In January 2018, the number of building permits issued increased 33%. Viewed according to the type of building, the number of permits issued for buildings has increased 39.8%, while the permits for other buildings have increased by 13.7% and this refers to the infrastructure. So this project, apart from providing for our security forces, brings growth and development of the domestic economy. Otherwise, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like to say that the Bor municipality is interested in this project. We have a location where a residential facility can be built and we wait to enter into the realization of this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36369	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36370	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm on Article 1. I would like to say that this law regulates the conditions, criteria, way and procedure for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, as well as for the former members of the security forces who have obtained the pension right in one of these state bodies. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a harmonised programme of measures and actions taken by the state to achieve the objectives of national security policy. Her realization creates assumptions for the political, economic, social, cultural and overall social development of the Republic of Serbia. The first phase at the selected locations envisions construction of 1,578 apartments, which is by cities: Belgrade 400, Novi Sad 400, Nis 188, Vranje 190, Kraljevo 200 and Kragujevac 200 apartments. I want to point out that it's good to build 190 apartments for security forces in the first stage of Vranj. In southern Serbia, we have security forces engaged in the land's security zone. The involvement of members of the security forces in the land's security zone is under extremely difficult and securely complex conditions. It is good that by passing this law we help these security forces to resolve their housing issue, because a large majority of them, unfortunately, have so far not solved their housing issue. Addressing the housing issue would show a relationship with these security forces that carry out their duties in extremely difficult and securely complex conditions, so that Serbian citizens are safe and secure. But resolving this problem is also the public interest of the Republic of Serbia in the importance of strengthening the national security system. In voting day, I call on the MPs to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36371	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by Stanislav Janošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36372	Thank you, President of the Assembly. The honourable representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, the first thing I want to say on the subject of this law on the agenda is that I am glad that it is on the agenda at all, that we are discussing it and that we will certainly adopt it in the day of the vote. I make no distinction between the members of the Serbian Army, the police, or the BIA, and I believe and support that absolutely all have the same right to receive a housing issue and be resolved. For years and decades they were marginalized. The question of their roof over their head has never been moved before. Our predecessors had a very interesting method of forming a budget. If you just consider that they didn't have the means for any battery, they didn't have the means for boots, the gimmicks, for the foundation of the assets, so they could save and secure the money for building apartments? Alexander Vukic and SNS form such a climate and such a system in each area and all its actors from individual areas must give their maximum, which is also done in the formation of this law, which will further ensure the resolution of unresolved housing issues among security officers. I therefore submit this amendment to define the subject matter of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36373	The first amendment was submitted by Maja Macužić Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36374	I thank the president. Dear representatives of the ministry, associates, I have submitted this amendment to point out the importance of raising standards of security forces that are doing difficult and responsible work for the state and for the citizens, which can make the citizens feel safe. I will specifically refer to the importance of this law for the city of the King where I come from. The Kingdom will be built in the first phase of 200 apartments in the settlement Ribnica on the site of "Voćarev livada". I must point out that with the construction of these apartments, it will solve the residential issue of members of the Kraljevo Police Administration, which covers the towns of Kraljevo, the municipality of Rasak and Vrnjačka Banja, the police administration that covers perhaps the largest territory in Serbia and has two largest tourist destinations in its jurisdiction, i.e. Kopalnik and Vrnjačka Banja. A residential issue will also be resolved by members of the Centre of the Security and Information Agency in the Kingdom, the Police Department, members of the Office for the Execution of Sanctions of the District Prison in the Kingdom, members of the Second Army Brigade and the 98th Air Brigade. It's a serious number of security forces we can't talk about today, of course, for security reasons. With this law, all those who have failed to resolve the housing issue for years and decades will soon be able to do so. It is not, however, and it will not be the only site in the King in the coming period. Construction will soon begin in the Kingdom and 360 apartments per project of urban regeneration. The “Sveti Sava” elementary school near the settlement to be built for these security forces, a new market-business centre, also near this site, two new "Leoni" and "Taj group", a closed pool, a modern traffic station and many other projects smaller in size, but not in importance. In the village of Ribnica, which numbers over 20,000 people who are building these apartments, no one has invested in it for decades. For the past five years, it has been richer and more content for the sports hall where numerous and most significant international sports events are held today, the "Glavčić Bridge" for whose construction, gratitude we owe, among other things, to Milomir Glavčić, a large debtor, a home of culture, a shopping centre, and soon for this modern residential settlement for security forces, a primary school and a closed pool. Thanks to this law, among other things, the city of Kraljevo will become the largest construction site in the coming years, not only in Serbia but also in the region. By building these apartments, we will only take the first step in building two million squares across Serbia. Based on the results of this and the previous government and team led by Aleksandra Vukic, I expect that the Republic of Serbia will continue to make economic progress and that there will be opportunities to continue building apartments for both young couples and health workers, judges and other civil servants. Of course, in the voting day, I will also support this law and other laws that are on the agenda today, and I call on fellow MPs to support my amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36375	The first amendment was submitted by Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36376	Thank you, President. Dear co-workers of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, housing is the primal primary human need and belongs to one of the basic rights, and in Serbia, as in most other countries, it is one of the basic existential issues of the citizens of Serbia. After almost full privatisation of the apartments and the abolition of the source of funding of a new housing fund to meet housing needs, the public sector remains without funds, and the state has almost fully withdrawn, led, among other things, by global ideological assumptions, that the job in the housing sector for the state has been completed, and that this sector should be left to market laws alone. However, all valid analyses point to the need for more active government involvement in the housing sector, but this time in a different mission through the acquisition of central, legislative, strategic and financial roles in creating better conditions for the development of the housing sector. Starting with this new role as a country in this sector, and given the nature of the work carried out by security forces and their importance for the security of the entire country, and that this problem is the most pronounced in this category because of the long-standing failure to solve this life problem that thousands of security forces, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, proposed by law, are going to try to solve this problem systematically at an appropriate time interval. This law enables a wide circle of persons from this area, and that both employees and persons who have obtained the right to retire in these state bodies, to resolve their housing issue under extremely favourable conditions, thus showing great gratitude to this category of people who are putting forth a lot of effort and effort and are ready to defend their homeland at any moment. The question is, what correlation does the building of apartments for members of security forces and the rights of displaced persons have, which is the essence of my proposed amendment? In this context, I point out that the problems of this endangered category are manifested in all areas of life in education, health, employment, status issues, but as with security forces, they are the most pronounced in the area of addressing housing needs. Own living space is the most important prerequisite for the integration of displaced persons and their families. It is precisely in the area of housing that the most unequal situation of displaced persons is expressed in relation to the local population. As a result, the Republic of Serbia has provided more than 15,000 different housing solutions at all levels of government, with the support of international organisations in the previous period, through building housing units, the assignment of assistance to construction materials, installation houses, crying, etc., and has allocated huge funds to create essential conditions for the quality, dignity and security of the lives of displaced persons in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the realisation of this project will do so for security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36377	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MEP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36378	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 1. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for security forces is further defined by Article 1 and all in order to develop the Republic of Serbia. In Article 1 The bill stipulates that the law regulates the conditions, criteria, way and procedure for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the MUP, the BIA, the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, as well as for former members of the Security Forces who have obtained the pension right in one of these state authorities. Realisation of this project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a harmonised programme of measures and actions taken by the state to achieve the objectives of national security policy. Her realization creates assumptions for the political, economic, social, cultural and overall social development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36379	On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Olivera Pesic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36380	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted is heading towards connecting the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on social equality with the draft of this law. The fact is that security forces have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for years and decades. It is clear to all that the members of the security force are carrying out, as well as the responsibility that he carries with him. I therefore welcome the government's decision to move forward with resolving the housing issue for members of the security structure. With this bill, all members of the security forces that will compete, will be able to permanently resolve their housing needs under equal conditions, of course with the fulfilment of the relevant requirements, and that is exactly how social equality will be achieved. Given that the realisation of this project of building cheap apartments is envisioned for the time being for six cities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kraljevo, Kragujevac, Nis and Vranje, I would like to particularly welcome the construction of cheap apartments for southern Serbia, as southern Serbia has been neglected for years and I sincerely hope that the seventh city in which it will be built will be the town of Leskovac, because the town of Leskovac has a prepared location for building cheap apartments for members of the security structures. I invite you to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36381	National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36382	I thank the presidents, distinguished ministers, for the reason of submitting this amendment is that the law ensures the development of the Republic of Serbia with better access to economic resources. The law regulates the conditions, criteria, way and procedure for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the MUP, the BIA and the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, as well as for former members of the security forces who have exercised their pension rights in one of these state authorities. Building apartments in accordance with the law will allow the largest number of unsolved housing needs of security employees who have failed to resolve their housing issue for decades and represent the public interest of the Republic of Serbia. Realisation of the project, the construction of cheap apartments will also have a positive impact on GDP growth in the area of construction, on the employment of the domestic construction industry, as well as on the increase in employment, as the law defines the mandatory participation of domestic firms. Item 3 which is added to Article 1 of this proposal defines more precisely the purpose of building apartments for security forces with respect to one of the main principles, which is the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36383	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36384	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Mr Minister, the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the project for the construction of dwellings and its application, providing conditions for the start of the construction of apartments for members of the Ministry of Defence, MUP, BIA, persons employed in the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as for retired members of the Security Services. The amendment I tabled on the proposal aims to look at the impact of the law with an overall impact on the development of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the SNS, is launching another project that, in addition to the fact that it should represent a project of general interest to strengthen the national security system, also through the realisation of the project, the construction of apartments will affect the rise of the entire economy, as the implementation of the project will target employees from the construction operation, as well as domestic companies, which is in line with the policy it promotes and implements in the work of the SNS. In the discussion so far, we have had the opportunity to hear the opposite sides, challenge this project with claims that the project will not be realised or the dynamics of the works will be much slower, than the law provides. Unfortunately for them, and fortunately for these citizens who will receive SNS and the Serbian government will realise this as well as all projects so far. Three years ago, we had a chance, right here in this room, to listen to the exact opposition of the opposite side to one of the projects that was then promoted, it's a Lex specialise for "Belgrade on Water" and we also heard that this project will not be today. We have an opportunity to see that "Belgrade on Water" is being built and that it is an engine of development of the city of Belgrade, as well as of the whole of Serbia that is changing the complete picture of our capital, as the building of apartments for security forces will represent the engine of change for all cities where the apartments are built. Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS, by coming to power, began to cure corruption and crime that settled in our country during the former regime, and the money being poured into private pockets yesterday was directed where it belongs to the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's why today we can say that there's money to re-enlarge wages, so today the police have new uniforms, so today the police have new cars, and that's why it's going to be a project to build apartments for security forces. In order to accept the proposed amendment, I call on fellow MPs to support the amendment in the voting day, as well as the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36385	Thank you, colleague Zeleg. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zvonimir Djokic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Zvonimir Djokić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36386	I would like to thank the chairman, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, the honourable MPs, the adoption of a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces is very important at this point, as it is necessary for the state to systematically approach the solution of this issue. One part of the military that was displaced from former Yugoslav republics in the 1990s, has been living in abandoned military facilities for more than a quarter of a century, with an estimated 2,500 of them in Serbia, which is 2,500 families, military homeless with nearly 10,000 members waiting for a solution to the housing issue. Military homeless, they call themselves, those who as members of the JNA in the early 1990s were dislocated from the former Yugoslav republics to Serbia-Montenegro, the then-SRJ, and who lost their housing during the dislocation. These people do not have refugee status because they have not escaped, but have been transferred with the then JNA units based on decisions and agreements. They form a specific group that has remained deprived of living space in privatisation, as the condition for their predislocation was to give up or transfer ownership of immovable property in the former Yugoslav republics, with the guarantee that they would be granted new apartments in the SRJ space. The act of surrendering or giving up the tenant rights these people signed was a condition for obtaining a housing solution in Serbia-Montenegro, and based on the 1991 JNA apartment regulations, they were given priority in resolving the housing issue. Soon this priority was lifted, and with new rules they got the status of ordinary people without an apartment. So far, their housing issue has not been resolved. A similar fate has struck many other security forces that lived and worked on the premises of the former Yugoslav republics before the break-up of the SFRY, and now live in Serbia. It's about people who used to spend four and a half to 6% of their personal incomes in a military housing fund, which basically bought out social housing in part or in whole. Today, in Serbia, a large number of homeless soldiers still live in barracks, military schools, clubs, homes and other facilities, joint accommodations. Some of the dislocated persons with their families decided to live in private rented apartments and receive compensation from the state for the increased cost of housing so-called. UTS while a certain number of faces live with relatives. All of them have been waiting for a solution to the housing issue for more than a quarter of a century, marginalized by so far's furniture of government. Today, thanks to the understanding of the current government, and above all to Aleksandra Vukic and SNS, it begins with a systematic resolution of this issue very important for the overall development of the state, especially for the defence system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36387	Thank you, co-worker, Dickie. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36388	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. With this amendment, I wanted to point out that the town of Leskovac has a need to build apartments for security forces that would be purchased under favourable conditions. The Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure provided information based on surveys conducted by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, on the territory of the town of Leskovec. The information has the following character. Among the members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army on the territory of the town of Leskovec, 128 members are without any housing, and 53 with inadequate housing facilities, a total of 181 members of the security force with unsettled housing conditions. The members of the MUP 373 agree to purchase apartments under more favourable conditions, with 149 without a settled housing issue. The town of Leskovac is ready to enter the project of building apartments and owns this moment two locations ready for construction, one of which is communally equipped. For both locations there are planning documents so that it is possible to issue location conditions and building permits. Dear Minister, I would like success in the implementation of this project, and I call upon my respected colleagues to vote in the voting day, to support this amendment, as well as all the laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36389	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36390	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Stefanovic and his fellow MPs, as we all know, is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, and of building apartments for security forces. After surveys conducted by colleagues from the competent ministries, there was a need to build about 2,400 housing units on the territory of the City of Nis. As a city, we have proposed two first-stage locations that can immediately begin to be built, the location of the “Stevan Sijedić” barracks in Nikola Tesla. There were once built apartments for young scientific workers, eight lamelas with about 400 apartments, but the general regulation plan left the possibility for another block. According to the idea of a solution done, this is where 188 apartments should be built. The location is almost ready. It is necessary to complete the plot, which we are doing right now, and after that, the investor, which is the Republic of Serbia, will initiate the authorisation procedure. It is expected that the process, as well as the process of determining the performers, will end sometime in September of this year and that construction will then begin. I think we'll be the first in Serbia to begin construction, us or the City of Vranje. As a city, we have the obligation to build a lack of infrastructure in terms of plumbing, sewerage, traffic, heat, telecommunications networks. This will be done parallelly with the performance of the work and we expect this part of us to be finished next year, and we sincerely hope that even then the apartments will be finished, because the City of Nis is ready for this job. For the second stage, the location of Ardija polygon was proposed, an integral part of the "Knjiz Michaelo" barracks, a former Pantelian barracks. It is a location that opens up the possibility of ending the Sombor boulevard and connecting from the Pantelian church to the Eco pump. With the boulevard, about 20 hectares of land will be opened, which is intended under the general urban plan for middle density housing, as well as for building accompanying facilities such as kindergartens, schools, home of health. At the moment, a plan-making act is under way and a solution to property relations with the Army of the Republic of Serbia. After the end of this, archaeological research will be carried out, as there is an indication that archaeological sites are located in one part of this location. After completing this study, the design will follow, both the apartments themselves and all necessary infrastructures. This is expected to be over in 2018 and the first half of next year, and then to start building other necessary apartments at this location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36391	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Djukanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36392	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces in the sense that it contributes to the greater quality of the law itself, of course, if it is accepted by the promoter. I came here on perhaps one side, considering the third point of this session, and that is the bill on the registration process in the motion of immobilities and waterways for reasons because it is very important for this to be implemented quickly, quality, efficient, so that practically from the very idea, preparation etc. There's geodesy everywhere, it's got its place, it's got its part. So, from the beginning, the idea has to come up with maps, plans, data on which it's being run, etc. Furthermore, when the location itself is selected, the recording of symposene plans and preparations for drawing up the design documentation, i.e. for the solution to the issue of the building permit, shall be started. When a building permit is issued, the marking of the facility and the monitoring of the building itself begins. After the completion of the construction, the recording of the executive situation and after obtaining the applicable authorisation shall be recorded in the immovableity catalogue in accordance with the Immobilization and Waters Procedure Act. It's a very good law. I think it will be part of this session and adopted, so simplicity and speed will contribute to this law on special conditions for the realisation of the apartment building project for security forces will be high-quality. When the apartments are finished and the purchase of apartments is carried out, the work of monitoring the facility itself continues, so I am the procedure for building apartments for members of the security forces simply depends largely on the geodesy and private and stately how it will function and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36393	Thank you, fellow Matić. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jovica Jeftic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Jovica Jeftic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36394	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 1. The bill adds attitude 3, which further defines the link and impact of the proposed legislative solution on the even development of the Republic of Serbia. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a harmonised programme of measures and actions taken by the state to achieve the security policy objectives. Her realization creates assumptions for the political, economic, social and certainly even development of the Republic of Serbia, and this amendment is heading in that direction. This law will address the largest number of unresolved housing needs of security employees who have failed to resolve their housing issue for decades. The realisation of the project is planned first in six cities, and this will certainly contribute to a balanced regional development of the whole country in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevno and Vranje. For the sake of everything forward, I think the proposed amendment is certainly a way to ensure that through the proposed legislative solution aphirmise the country's even development as one of the most important foundations of the future social system to which we aim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36395	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Here's my colleague Susec.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36396	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, draft legislation on special conditions for the implementation of projects for the construction of apartments for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia is one of the good ideas from the previous period, but because of the left to the people and the state by those before us of unregulated and poor public finances and a terrible public debt, it was necessary to resort to fiscal consolidation measures and only now have conditions for the realisation of this state project, state housing. The Republic of Serbia is proving its economic and economic stability through the implementation of the project, where other economic operators in the Republic of Serbia are also running in addition to the launch of the domestic construction industry, which will greatly reflect the increase of GDP in the Republic of Serbia. From the territory of the South Banat Management District, four local self-government units have expressed great interest in participating in the implementation of this project to build apartments for security forces. The town of Pančevo has proposed two locations for the realisation of this project and this location Hipodrom-Strelje and Strelište-block 203 and locations where the area is about 17,730 m2, so there is a possibility of connection to public traffic, waterway and sewerage, electricity, telecommunications and central city heating. In addition, the city of Panchevo has also done an urban project, as well as the development of the site in question. I must also point out, according to the National Security Office of the city of Panchev, 373 members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army and 353 members of the Serbian MUP expressed interest in taking part in the implementation of this project. I must also, I hope, and I also wish that the first phase of the implementation of this project should be completed before the deadline for the next phases to find units of local self-government of South Banat, but not only of South Banat but of other administrative districts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, we must not forget that nearly 20,000 members of the MUP, 14,000 members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army and 1,500 BIA members who work hard daily for our country have no settled housing issue. The bill, respected Serbian citizens, is of paramount importance for strengthening the national security of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, in the voting day and the SNS parliamentary group, they will be happy to support this bill, because these people are really doing hard and responsible work in these difficult and security-complex times. They need to feel that the state of Serbia knows that it appreciates and respects everything they do in the interest of the peace and security of our country and of the peace and security of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36397	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36398	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, proposed a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces, confirms the programme objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic. By passing this law, one of the basic problems is solved by members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the MUP, the BIA, the Criminal Sanctions Administration, as well as for persons who have been entitled to pension in one of these state authorities, and this is the problem of housing that no one has tried to solve in decades. This law provides an opportunity to improve the standard of living for people who do a responsible job and that makes us all feel safe. By adopting this bill, it will allow for housing to be built for now in six cities of the Republic of Serbia, so that employees in those state bodies can be taken care of. In order to educate soldiers, officers, police officers, we must invest in education, we must invest in the school system, because our goal is to keep them in the military, the police, and this law will make a good contribution to the work of these services to resolve their constitutional issue and to perform their duty in the services where they are employed, which also contributes to the overall development of our country. For the sake of all this, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill, which reads – the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36399	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go, Dr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36400	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honorable fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 1. The bill adds item 3 – the adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the development of medical centres. The amendment further defines Article 1. It's a bill of law. Accordingly, I would say that the policy of national security objectives is part of the common state policy, with which realisation is achieved by the overall social development of the Republic of Serbia and it is of general interest to strengthen the national security system. Given that the largest number of unresolved housing needs in state authorities, precisely among security forces, which have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades, it has been decided to systematically resolve the proposal for a programme to build cheap apartments at multiple locations at the same time in several Serbian cities. This has also led to the creation of this law on special conditions for the construction of apartments of security forces aimed at the successful and efficient implementation of the project itself. By the way of the survey, 18,905 security forces and a small number of pensioners, only 1,462, who retired from one of the security authorities, have said they want to buy apartments under the construction project. Thus, in six cities, it is planned to build 5,203 apartments, with the implementation of 1,578 apartments in Belgrade and Novi Sad, 200 in Kragujevac and Kralje, 190 in Vranje and 188 in Nis. The buildings will be typical citizens, with no underground floors, and the size of the apartments will be 32 to 92 m2. The person who buys an apartment like this will have to remain in the security force for 10 years. The price of a square meter of this apartment will be 500 euros in dinar equivalent on the day of the conclusion of a contract without value added tax. In this way, a large number of security services employees will have the opportunity to buy these cheap apartments and resolve their housing issues permanently. Local self-government will have income from property tax on newly built apartments, as well as public facilities, ambulances, pharmacies built around these buildings will be able to function as users and all citizens from local self-government. They will employ workers of different profiles, doctors, medical technicians, pharmacists, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36401	Thank you, Dr. Babico. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36402	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, the overall development of the country is undoubtedly and unquestionably influenced by a large number of companies, entrepreneurs, public authorities, banks and other financial institutions, which will also affect the improvement of their standard of living by hiring and hiring people in the apartment of workers. Therefore, in order to further define Article 1 of the proposed law, I have tabled an amendment adding Article 3 and which reads - to ensure that the proposed law ensures the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to tax liability. By bringing a system solution to the building of apartments for security forces, the state has launched a solution to the major problem of members of these forces that have not solved the housing issue. Taking into account that national security policy is part of the overall state policy, given the importance and responsibility of the work that security forces perform, and that a large number of them have not solved the housing issue, the responsible leadership of the state headed by the President and the Government has decided that this decades-long problem is being resolved systematically. As a first step, a government commission has been set up with the task of preparing a proposal for an apartment building programme for members of the security forces they will come to under more favourable conditions. One of the Commission's conclusions is that it is necessary, for the sake of faster and more efficient implementation of the housing project, to develop a special law that will regulate the conditions, criteria, methods and procedures for the implementation of the programme itself. Due to the importance of defining the said project's performance law, Serbian People's Party MPs in voting day will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36403	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36404	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces without any doubt has a significant segment in terms of Serbia's macroeconomic stability. When we talk today about Serbia's macroeconomic stability, we are not talking about the inherited category, but about the category that has been present for the past three years. If you look at what the macroeconomic stability of the state of Serbia looked like in 2015 and when we entered into negotiations with the IMF, then it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and practically all Serbian citizens made a great effort to bring one economy that was brought to the brink of collapse to the level of macroeconomic stability. When we talk today about macroeconomic stability parameters, then we are talking about GDP growth to 4.5% in the first quarter of 2018 and, above all, we are talking about reducing unemployment levels, i.e. rising unemployment levels, and the current level of unemployment in the state of Serbia is probably somewhere in the real historical minimum of ten percent. This programme, the law certainly implies a number of economic effects that will have to function in the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Serbia. If we are talking about investment, then it is investment of 5,203 apartments, representing an investment of about 150m euros. One hundred and fifty million euros in investment are certainly investments of 1% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, or 0.5% of GDP, which certainly says that the level of investment in the next time period will certainly rise. This is the result of the macroeconomic stability that the government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the past three years. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36405	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36406	Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. In Article 1 I propose adding the 3rd position to the bill – the adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. As I have repeatedly mentioned in previous talks, only with a clear vision of progress and the idea in which direction we should go can we get the desired results. In this regard, it is very important that we follow the trends of development and try to improve life conditions in all areas for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is particularly important is that as a country we stand behind those who care about the safety of all citizens of this country, those who make the laws we make and the decisions we deal with are implemented in practice, those who are guaranteed peace and security, and these are members of the security forces. I believe this law is very important and that the possibility of our soldiers and police officers getting affordable apartments will allow further development and progress. This, like many other laws, is taking a step further in Serbia's path towards a modern-developed European member states and peoples. What I must stress in this address is that the Arangelovac has recently received great recognition, and this is the EU Prize called the European Prize for Cultural Heritage / Europe Nostra Award for 2018. The Pavilion "Knjiz Milos" in Bukovica Banje Park is the winner of the conservation category, and this is an example of the excellent co-operation of local self-government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Kingdom of Norway, whose representatives I especially thank, and who contributed together, donated significant funds to restore this pearl of our city, abandoned for years, in full glory. I have cited this as an example that I believe can be applied to what we are talking about, which is the development of all economic, social and economic branches in one continent for the development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36407	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Marinkovic, respected ministers Stefanovic, respected ministers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Article 1 prescribed the conditions, criteria, the way and the procedure for the implementation of the project of building apartments for members of security forces, and particularly determines the public interest, as well as the process of expropriation, prescribes the obligations of participants in the process of adopting or amending planning documents, determines how to regulate the building land, determines the investors of construction, regulates the process of obtaining the missing building land and resolve property-legal relations on land within the residential complex and outside the housing complex in the function of the housing complex. My amendment to Article 1. – ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving health conditions. The apartments are artificially created environments where people are the most held back. Children stay in apartments from 20 – 24 hours, school children 16 – 20 hours, adults 10 – 14 hours, housewives up to 22 hours, and as many pensioners and disabled people. As a result, housing conditions are important for people’s health from opportunities in businesses, schools, barracks, or public places. The operation of the apartment on human health is complex. In the apartment is performed a series of physiological, psychological and social functions on which the setting can act unfavourable and favourable physical, chemical, biological, social inflows. In the apartment a man feeds, breathes, rests, sleeps, performs his sexual functions, children grow up, learns, and all the locals there maintain most of their social contacts. There are a number of diseases that often occur in people living under conditions of residential overcrowding in apartments where there is evidence of the existence of factors known as morbogenic i.e. the cause of the disease. The most common diseases resulting from adverse housing conditions are tuberculosis, high child mortality, bronchial asthma, rheumatism, home accidents, poisoning, respiratory infections, bowel infections, fungal skin infections, and some mental illnesses, ranging from youth crime to psychosis. It is important, however, to note that the statistical positive correlation between mortality and disease from some diseases, from one condition and poor housing conditions, on the other hand, does not mean that they are the only causes of the disease. In the development of the disease there is multiple causality in which apartments can represent more or less a significant etiological factor. It is certain, however, that good or bad housing can develop if all living conditions remain unchanged, synergistic or antagonist activity in spreading or suppressing certain diseases. Finally, I would like to explain the meaning of my amendment in advance, because in the med school of hygiene, communal hygiene is being studied as a special section, i.e. housing hygiene in all possible aspects of which I have now spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36409	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. On Article 1st of the amendment, the MPs were submitted by Professor Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36410	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen, I always advocate that when we pass the law we look at its impact on the country's economic development, on Serbia's economic development, because only economically developed Serbia can solve current and growing problems. At the moment when money is cheap goods, it's the right thing to do to invest that stuff, that money in construction, in building apartments in security forces. This construction is marked by the security of existence and economic moment. I'll talk about this economic moment. By investing in construction we withdraw the activation of many business branches, on the other hand, the law says that the works will be carried out by domestic companies. The common consequence of all this will be greater employment, higher employment, which is one of the objectives of the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia. Gross domestic product, which I always view as a sum of four terms, or if we look at gross national income, then I view as a sum of five terms. In GDP, not construction, but the entire economy will increase two sums, increase gross investment and increase personal consumption of citizens. That's why this law is important, and what I want to say in the end, Valjevo is a city that deserves and has conditions, that when we continue this process, because this is just the beginning, this is the best example of how the economy of a country can develop the fastest. That is why I am running for the city of Valjevo to be the seventh city in the construction of these apartments for all those groups at risk in housing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36411	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go, colleague Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36412	Thank you, Chairman. When it comes to Article 1 of this legislative proposal, it is closer to determining the subject matter of regulation, public interest, of the legal proposal itself. To solve any man's life problem or to participate in solving his life's problem or at least part of his problem is a big deal. Any political furniture that puts such a question on the table and initiates such processes deserves respect, and that is certain in this case when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Such a bill certainly deserves serious respect for Serbia's citizens. I spoke earlier in the principle debate on the effects of this law, they are certainly significant from the point of view of social protection in terms of improving the social status of one part of the population, solving some basic social problems, security effects, because only a well-secured and well-secured security officer can be committed to his work, and thus affecting the overall security of society and state. It also has this liquid effect on the economy itself, because it triggers the construction industry and many other branches of the economy that this construction industry includes and thus affects the development of the entire society. But it can all be so different and it doesn't have to be like this. Especially if in such an area as security, besides other areas of society, God knows, under the mantle, some security reform or defence system, including crime and corruption? How? Here, for example. During Boris Tadic's ministry, Dragan Sutanovac, remember what happened in terms of reform, so-called "Sutanovac". the reform of the defence system, and what is the worst form of crime towards its own people in that period, has occurred in terms of destroying social status, and most of the morals of those who have invested a great deal of their lives in the security of this country and this people. When it comes to the destruction of material technical means, these security services, for example, Army, 400 armored vehicles, 200 artillery tubes or artillery weapons, 23,000 pieces of infantry weapons, 9,000 portable missile systems, if I should keep counting. All these were destroyed in those two terms by the two ministers. Of course, the crime itself was rewarded by his employers, looking at the personal wealth of these ministers with accounts, apartments, watches, robbery privatisations. Now, the aim of this amendment is to point out exactly the constant need to fight such events, corruption, malfeasance, crime, and to serve as one symbolic reminder that these and such things would never happen to us again, even when it comes to this area of housing of people working in security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36413	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36414	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the realisation of the housing project for members of the security forces and further defined by Article 1.................................................................................................................................................. a member referring to the subject matter of this law. I've linked the subject matter of this law to the efficiency of local self-government. The law concerns the efficiency of local self-government, primarily the efficiency of several local self-governments that will build cheap apartments for members of the military, police and security services. In fact, it is big cities in Serbia, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevci and Vranj, but I hope that the building of apartments for security forces and other smaller cities that have expressed their readiness to participate in this project will take place very soon. What does it matter? First of all, it is important that those military pensioners and pensioners of other security forces in Serbia could welcome a dignified age in small areas, but as I said in one of the previous exhibitions, and that young people living in smaller cities would stay with their family in those cities, because if a housing issue is resolved, it is one of the grounds that they will stay in these cities and will not go to bigger cities, such as the situation in Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36415	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36416	I thank the president. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this Article to the 3rd position I have proposed, is further defining the bill in terms of affirmation of the overall development of our country, and in particular the development of regional medical centres. The government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is seen in the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments, creating the most favourable conditions for state development. Seven days ago, work was completed on the construction and equipment of the new facility of the Institute of Oncology and Radiology. Three of the most modern linear accelerators, one CT simulator, as well as the accompanying radio therapy equipment, were purchased. Construction works on the building consisting of 1200 newly built square meters and a total of 2,000 squares of adaptable space were carried out. The value of the investment is 8.9m euros. The total value of equipment is 6.4m, and construction works are about 2.4m euros. Oncology 2 will conduct radiation therapy, and together with planning is trained cadre. With this investment, Serbia has met standards that apply to the modern world, which is that it has a modern radiation apparatus for 250,000 inhabitants. This will be the first center where the patients who come to prepare for radiation will be separated, and that they will have special rooms where they will stay with their families. Also, by the end of the year, thanks to these appliances, the waiting lists for this kind of therapy will be gone. At the same time, three other linear accelerators were obtained, which will be deployed at clinical centres in Kragujevac and Nis, and in the health center of Kladovo. These facts are evidence of the strategic visionary policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which thoroughly implements projects of vital importance for the development of our country. Only in these infrastructure investments will create better conditions for the continuation of the reforms that are ultimately aimed at increasing the standard of living of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36417	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by Member Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36418	I thank the president. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted the amendment in order to point out the importance of building apartments for members of the Security Service for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. For decades back, no one has dealt with the housing of security officers, who are willing to give their lives for their country and who defend our people's right to freedom. So today, we have more than 20,000 security officers who have not solved the housing issue. The government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Aleksandar Vucic recognized the problem, and in the previous period a number of apartments have already been allocated to members of the security service. In 2018, construction of 1,578 apartments will begin at as many as six locations in the Republic of Serbia, which are the cities of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Kralje and Vranje. The project is worth around 64m euros. On the one hand, we're solving residential unsettled security personnel, and on the other hand we're achieving economic goals. The housing affects the increase in the color of employees and the creation of new jobs in the construction industry. So, housing is a function of continuing a positive trend in reducing the unemployment rate, and let's just remember that in 2012, the unemployment rate was 26%, and today it's double the unemployment rate, so it's going around 12%. Therefore, housing has a positive impact on both economic growth and economic development, as well as on the growth of the share of construction in gross domestic product. The work of small and medium-sized enterprises is being accelerated. This stimulates private sector employment, which is also the goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The reminders work, in the first quarter of 2018, we achieved a surplus in the 6.5 billion dinar budget and GDP growth of 4.5%. The housing will certainly have a positive impact on achieving even better results in the coming period. National security is certainly the cornerstone of the modern state's functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36419	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36420	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, the resolution of the housing issue is important for every man, of great importance for security services, of particular importance, so I absolutely support the government's insistence to provide housing issues and resolve the housing issue of the security service completely. I hope that this is just the beginning of this procedure, that under favourable conditions, more favourable than they are marketable, provide housing and security services can be able to carry out their work uninterruptedly, ensure safe work and safe work of our country's population and external borders. What is of particular importance is that this is how a construction operation is launched that employs many services and of the utmost importance of this process and is for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is that it is increasing in this way. I think that, in the next period, this process should continue and think about helping other categories of our population to ensure, under more favourable conditions, a housing issue, in order to destimulate, above all, young people to leave our country, but to base their families here, work here and stay in our country. What I can see is that you've chosen for this first phase of larger cities, and that savings is significant, for example. The lowest prices are 700 euros per square. I come from Smederevska Palanka, and unfortunately, it's not the situation. We buy new apartments for 500 euros, maybe cheaper. That is why we should consider that in smaller cities, where we also want the population to remain as large as possible, we should further improve the conditions and that there are these employees who are in the security services, provide their housing issues and stay in those environments, because it is certainly the country's interest, not only to come to Belgrade, but also to the interior to be inhabited to an appropriate extent so that we can bring investors, to develop the country and to be able to employ our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36421	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36422	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment stresses the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development. I am the opinion that he has his place in this bill. I cannot express my satisfaction with the fact that so far, both in the principle of debate and in the debate in particular, we still have not heard one single argument that would go against this bill. Unlike some others, we in the SNS always prepare thoroughly for congregation discussion. This implies primarily careful reading of the bill. Why am I saying this? Because on several occasions, we heard about it today but also in principle – it is good that apartments will be built, but we should improve domestic production, domestic producers, domestic construction industry, etc. Well, if they'd read the bill, obviously, if they hadn't, they'd have seen it coming in this law. In line with that, for the sake of the citizens, I would point out only Article 14. Proposal for a law, bet 3. – for building a residential building, for collective housing, construction products, materials, equipment and installation of domestic manufacturers are primarily used in the presence of at least 80% of the total necessary construction products of materials, equipment and installations according to the specification contained in the project for building permit. It's a very clear thing here, and from everything we've heard, it's clear that this law will bring in a number of benefits that we've talked about a lot. So for all these reasons, I suggest we adopt this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36423	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36424	I thank the president. Dear Vice-President of the Government, dear colleagues, on the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, I submit an amendment to Article 1 and propose to add Article 3 which reads - the adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. Building apartments for members of security forces is a project implemented according to the proposal or idea of the President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, which aims to improve the standard of living of members of the security sector doing difficult and responsible work for the state, which makes citizens feel safe. The initiative itself, as well as investing in a project to build apartments for security forces, shows respect for those who fight crime and corruption day and night. Much has been done in the previous period in the fight against crime and corruption, and a clear message has been sent to all citizens that criminal activity in Serbia is not worth it. Right and agreed behavior is the only way to improve individuals and communities. Bringing this law is the best way to show our respect and respect for everything they do, both members of the military and police, and prison guards and members of the Security Information Agency. Realisation of the project contributes greatly to the improvement of the standard of living of Serbian citizens, primarily to people who work hard for our country, a job that makes all other citizens feel safe and secure. Starting with the fact, as well as our President Aleksandar Vukic, that it is about people who, regardless of the seriousness and danger of the work they do, have small incomes and who can hardly afford to solve the housing problem in the long term, and especially if they are young and build their families, the realisation of the project will give them a better and different life, security in tomorrow and an opportunity to count on the improvement in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36425	Sonja Vlahović submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36426	I thank the esteemed chairman. This is my first amendment, with special reference to economic growth, and building these apartments is a huge project and will directly affect our country's economic growth. This project will affect the economic development and growth of the social product, but also the growth of the share of construction in GDP, increased employment, better work of small and medium-sized enterprises. All of this is of great importance to the overall economic growth and development of our country. Our domestic products, materials from domestic producers, will be used to build these apartments. The housing tax will be charged by local self-government and thus will be an increase in economic growth and development. Dear Ministers, we have heard from opposition MPs that this is the Serbian Progressive Party's election campaign. They probably remembered their election campaigns, when they promised Serbian citizens such construction, and none of it was. That's what they did and promised, and they never kept. Then they told us we had a lot of marketing in this law. We just want citizens and citizens to hear about this kind of apartment building, and soon they'll see each other. There will be new buildings in Kralje, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Vranja. They were wondering why it was an emergency procedure. Because we want this big project to be implemented as soon as possible, which will affect our country's economic growth, because it is necessary to pass a law like this and therefore prepare all the necessary documentation for all of this to be carried out. We'll do it all, we'll plan it, because we have a financially stable budget for our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36427	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36428	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has five million hectares of agricultural land, four million of which are processed. When we compare that to, say, the Netherlands, which has three times less processed agricultural land, when compared to Denmark, which has a hectare in total territory as much as we have agricultural land, I have to say that we can't be satisfied with the results in agricultural production, and that, above all, thanks to the party of the former regime that didn't develop agriculture. So if the Netherlands with 60 sunny days, with a far more unfavourable climate, exports a total of 80 billion euros, it is so valuable to export the Netherlands from agriculture and food production, and Serbia cannot reach even three billion, so almost 30 times more Dutch exports. Only on roses is the export of the Netherlands eight billion, so three times bigger than total exports to the Republic of Serbia. Danish exports 21 billion euros from agricultural production. So these are agricultural productions that we should look up to. If those with a significantly smaller agricultural area and significantly lower conditions can create a serious gross-home product, Serbia should seek to modernise agriculture and pool through small-scale agricultural holdings, specialize in small and medium-sized agricultural holdings, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises as a perspective in the development of agriculture. When agriculture, the processing industry, energy, will develop, then there will be enough money for both the military and the police, and then the economic power of the country, the political power of the country, and the military will grow. That's why I think the day will come when this amendment that I have endured will be realized, if this power in this constitution survives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36429	Serbia's Filipovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36430	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled this amendment with a desire to help and propose and to point out to our citizens the importance of the decision that we will make in the coming days, when we vote on such a legislative proposal and a set of laws that are on the agenda. But what draws particular attention to me right now is that, while we are discussing amendments to such an important legislative proposal that solves the fate issue of members of the people who deal with our security, who are members of the army, police of Serbia, 90% of the opposition does not care. And they don't care because it's not an opportunity for their tycoons, their mobsters and members of their political parties, their officials, to get an apartment, some villa, some new jeep, some new expensive watch. This is an opportunity for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia to come to the apartment, to resolve their housing issue, to be on their own, to have a roof over their heads, to what is most important in life they may gain. It is an opportunity for us as citizens, as representatives of citizens, to thank in one way those people who care about the safety of the Republic of Serbia, who worry about someone selling drugs to our children, to those who worry about our border being safe, those who take 24 hours care of the security of all of us in the country, to allow them to buy an apartment under more favourable conditions than market conditions. Of course, the opposition has shown she's not interested. They were only interested in destroying the morale of the police and the military while they were in power, because it was then an opportunity, when the low morale of the police and the military, that high morals be with criminals and tycoon and all those who intend to rob the Republic of Serbia. While the Serbian Progressive Party is in power, this government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic, no one will rob the Republic of Serbia, no one will put their hands in the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There will be more money in their pockets, more factories and more jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36431	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36432	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I am very glad that it is on the list of cities and local environments in which it will be invested in the next period of building apartments in order and Kraljevo, the city from which I come. As someone who led this city twice, I know very well the opportunities in that city and I can tell you that everything that happened to us in the late 20th century, so that unfortunate civil war, has caused major disturbances in this city. It is a city that has about 120,000 inhabitants with suburban settlements and rural areas. In a short time period of several years, between 25 and 30,000 inhabitants moved into the city. These are the people who sought refuge. These are the people who were forced from Bosnia, Croatia, and in the end from Kosovo and Metohija to seek accommodation in this city. The kings of the great heart received these men. Of course, this has also brought great pressure on infrastructure and everything that it says about our daily life. This investment, this fact that the King will be among the first cities in which apartments for members of the Security Service will be built is certainly a great help to our city. With other investments, with so-called. The urban regeneration we've already started, and with the fact that we're probably going to start two big investments this year, to hire people in that environment, we're doing a good job of helping solve the problems that are piled up in this town. That's why he's full of support for this law and the entire set of laws that are in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36433	The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36434	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates. We have today the Law on the Construction of Apartments for Security Forces. I have submitted an amendment, which reads: "The adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving health care." Since there have been objections to this amendment by the opposition, I would like to explain something. Health care is a set of measures to preserve and prevent disease. It's primary health care. With this law, we indirectly influence the improvement of health care by improving the conditions of life for security forces, their families and their entire communities. We're solving their existential issue, the housing problem. Since it is about primary health care, meaning preserving health and preventing disease, whether it is mental or physical health, I would like to say that for this specificity carried out by the MUP, BIA and the Serbian Army, it takes a very high level of mental strength and stability to respond to life challenges, business life challenges. The idea for the Law on the Construction of Apartments for Security Forces was given by the president of our country, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and the work will be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Knowing the importance and responsibility of the job, which security forces are carrying out, means for the security of the entire state, and the largest number of outstanding housing needs of public authorities, the law leads to a systemic solution. So we're dealing with the housing issue permanently. The law is necessary. These are decisions of national interest. The departments are doing a tough and dangerous job. The intention is to improve the standard of living for the security forces. This is one of the measures that also affects the preservation of citizens' health, improvement, because the plan for destroying society goes with the development of the health system. Health and safety raise every man's ability to work. Only a healthy man can lead a socio-economic productive life. Health has an extremely important impact on the contribution of social and economic development, i.e. on the overall success of the country, so that this law indirectly through the implementation of this project affects the improvement of healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36435	Dr Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dragan Shormaz submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Mirko Krlic has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36436	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, I have already said that the project of building apartments really represents special care for a man, represents care for people who care for our security, our security, our dignity and what they have in particular, which is patriotism and awareness of national identity. On these topics, today’s session began in the mouth of some whose national identity is only in the mouth and only in words. We've heard different characteristics. We also heard a call to the works. I'm sorry they're not here. Today, we are discussing these works through amendments, and the works are a specific political hug between what is today called part of the Serbian opposition on how to bring down this power, connect incompatible, and it is truly amazing that today's prefix "Serbian" is the most important thing for those who hug with bankruptcy managers, beer yeast and other political identity that we have recognized here. What kind of hug is best seen from the transcript of NATO leader Javier Solana and Wesley Clark's talks, published on July 1st, 2008. In that conversation, Solana says to Clark: "I am disgusted by this Serbian government, to tell you the truth. It makes me sick because it's just half-trons and licks. “ This is how they were characterized by the one most supported and the best changes today say that today they are talking about the reality of Kosovo’s recognition, that they are talking about a war where there were no victims, but only collateral damages, that they are talking to us about nationalism and national pride, and they have words for themselves, and they have no actions. The old Latin says - similar to the likes of it rejoices. Therefore, I ask you to pay particular attention to Serbs from the region, because they left everything behind, left their estates and loyal military and police oaths to Serbia. Therefore, their feelings of patriotism and their sense of national identity are slightly greater than anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36437	National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36438	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces deserves unreserved support, above all, because it systematically solves the decade-long problem of unresolved housing needs of employees who are of particular importance to the security and future of our country. This law will significantly contribute to GDP growth in the area of construction, domestic labour employment, domestic construction industry employment and employment growth, VAT income growth on various grounds, and very important for local self-government budgets, an increase in income from property taxes. It is based on the idea and is heading towards the primary goal of SNS policy and its president, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, on the path of the overall development of our country and its local self-government. This is precisely why I tabled the amendment and suggested that Article 1 add Article 3 which reads: "The adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving the work of local self-government." We have come from the SNS, taking responsibility over them from the hands of irresponsible and arrogant leaders of the previous regime, who until 2012 in Vojvodina thought only of themselves, their bank accounts, personal benefit and numerous privileges, not taking care of anything, not even of the needs of members of security forces, starting with equipment, weapons, modern fighting systems, up to their living needs as a life issue of every individual. After six years of hard work under the leadership of the SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is operating with a surplus in the state register. It has reached a GDP growth of 4.5%, so it is possible to access the realization of this long-awaited project as well. This is a project that will serve as an example of how apartments can be built at more than affordable prices and for other target groups, for all citizens of our country, which will certainly contribute to Serbia's overall development and improve the work of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36439	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36440	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to put an emphasis on underdeveloped areas, because for all of us, it is very important for all of us living in Serbia to work, to develop, and part of where I live, underdeveloped areas where Srvlig is, where Bela Palanka is Gajin Han, where Nis Centre, where the Nis Centre, where the Nis residences are made for security workers. I also really support the government's efforts, and this law will really be very important to us, because a large number of people who have served our country, worked for our country, fought for our country, will have the opportunity to finally get their roof over their heads. It's something we all have to appreciate, respect, and I will always support these things, because as a man whose father was a police officer worked for this country, as a man who lives in Srlig and supports all the good things that are done for southeastern Serbia, for the development of underdeveloped areas, this way when we build these apartments, when they work and build these apartments, we will provide a real roof over our heads for all of our officers, for soldiers, who have so far not had that possibility, who have gone from some areas that have fought, who have really given themselves to protect and work for our country, for our end and for our Serbia. Otherwise, I would ask the question – is there any possibility that within these funds that builds apartments, is there a possibility for one percent of these apartments to be both for wartime military people and for those people who have lost their lives and their families have no apartment? I don't think this law can do it now, I hope that in some future law, we will have the opportunity to provide for these people a roof over their heads, because as we see both our government and our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, is really putting a great deal of activity and a big push for all those who have their activities, their knowledge and their ability to help our country Serbia protect itself. Once again, this law is excellent. The amendment I have made I just want to be supported by undeveloped areas and I call on everyone to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36441	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36442	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted to Article 1 of this law an amendment adding Article 3 which reads – the adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to undeveloped municipalities. Articles 1 and 2 respectively define the conditions, criteria and procedures for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. Since I participated in the discussion at the National Assembly session, where the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project, for the members of the security forces, was logically taken into account and considered by all the members of this law despite the opinion that the adoption of this law is a matter in terms of defining the solutions that are relevant for the implementation of this project, I proposed an amendment one to complete all of the above. Given the importance and responsibilities of the security forces' work, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, and since the largest number of unresolved housing needs are employed by state authorities among security forces that have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades, it is decided to resolve the same systemically. We live in complex times, and it's important to strengthen the security forces that have to feel that the state appreciates what they're doing. The adoption of this law will allow all procedures relating to the construction of apartments to be implemented as effectively as possible, including the construction of project documentation, expropriation and spatial plans. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognised the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces, and recognising the potential difficulties that can arise in the realisation itself, a special law aimed at the successful and efficient implementation of the project itself was joined. It is very important that this law solves the problems of the past that have become more and more pronounced every day. Therefore, the adoption and application of the law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces is made, in essence, systematic progress in this segment, thus ensuring overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities, which is further defined in the tabled amendment one to Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36443	Ljiljana Malušić, a national MP, submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36444	Thank you, President. The honourable ministers with the co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, unfortunately there are no MPs on this side who have spoken so badly of this law, but my God, it's called the opposition. In fact, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which I am adding Article 3 to which I want to actually explain how the adoption of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on reducing social differences. In fact, this law must first and foremost address the decade-long problem of housing in the security services. By that I consider, of course, the police, BIA, the Ministry of Justice, the Army of the Republic of Serbia, all military pensioners belonging to the security service. Why is this important? This law stipulates that everyone under the same circumstances can buy an apartment. The apartments built by this responsible government will cost 500 euros plus VAT. Imagine how much Gilas' apartments cost ten years ago? From 980 to 1350 euros per square metre. What it is and how it is, he said it was for young scientists, that it was a socially responsible policy. It doesn't matter, this is a socially responsible policy, this is a socially responsible government. This is how it's done. How do we charge the budget? By building, by doing all the work around the building. By hiring people from all areas, by increasing VAT revenue on various grounds, by increasing income from property tax. Anyone who buys an apartment, of course, will pay taxes. What is good is that we finish the documentation by August and start building in six cities of the Republic of Serbia in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Kralje, Nis and Vranja. Bravo. The first stage of 1,578 apartments. In three years, 5,203 apartments will be built and 20,000 apartments in 10 years. This reduces social differences by the fact that living conditions are work and apartment, and we are going to provide these people with an extremely difficult and responsible job with an apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36445	Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36446	I thank the president. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and dear guests, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which should highlight the application of this law, aimed at reducing poverty in the Republic of Serbia. The first basis for poverty reduction is, above all, dynamic industrial growth and development, which primarily implies the creation of new jobs, and then real sources of funding, as well as profits themselves, social and other needs, which of course the Republic of Serbia has achieved, both by fiscal consolidation and by providing surpluses in the budget. It also contributes to the efficient work of the state administration, which of course this and previous governments have achieved to keep the state administration in the service of citizens and have shortened procedures and procedures. Thus, stable state finances, serious laws in the field of planning and construction will definitely enable this project to be revived and to build apartments primarily for the start of security forces and, of course, for other professions, for young scientists, for young couples. So, resolving the housing issue is one of the key factors for resolving poverty in the Republic of Serbia, namely solving family, financial problems and expenditures, because a permanent housing solution will significantly stabilise finance in a large number of families, and it should be recalled that today there are some 260 thousand families without their own roof over their heads, living as tenants. This construction should also raise our construction industry, primarily domestic, because it will employ our domestic builders, which will of course mean opening new jobs, and above all 35 industrial branches will be employed that will be connected to the construction of these apartments. So this investment will return to both citizens and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36447	The MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36448	Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Stefanovic with his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, more than 20,000 police officers, 14 000 members of the Republika Srpska Army and 1500 BIA members have no settled housing issue. These are the results left to us by the previous regime. Based on a survey conducted by the resolution ministries, the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Justice, a large number of security forces have been surveyed, and they are indeed in a large number, as many as 18,905, who expressed their readiness to resolve their housing issues in this way and to solve the roof over their heads. This good project was initiated by SNS President, President of the Republic of Serbia Mr Aleksandar Vukic. The committee chaired by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, which included all ministers, has indeed performed a great result and I really congratulate you on that, Mr Stefanovic. Benefits from the adoption of this law are indeed numerous. The benefit will have units of local self-government that will collect property tax. Benefite and the benefits of this law will also be our domestic housing, our construction firms will intensify, there will be an increase in all the economic activities that are directly related to the construction sector, there will be an increase in economic activity, there will be overall growth and development of our country, there will be a decrease in unemployment rates, we will employ some new young people who will work to build these apartments. The Republic of Serbia will benefit as well. It will benefit because this law, i.e. by implementing this law, will allow our members of the military, our members of the police, the BIA, our prison guards, to deal with their housing issues in this way and be further motivated to create and work better in the security sector, they will deal with their very difficult business, they will deal with the security sector, the security of all of us, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our children, our property. In the end, I want to say two basic words that just characterize us. These are consistency and results. We, as SNS, have been followed by numerous criticisms since our founding. I'd say, first of all, the criticism for criticizing all those unfaithful Toms, all that part of the opposition that's been around all these years... I remember, it was in 2012, when we promised a number of projects, besides "Biograda on Water", home of health on Labudov Brdo, Clinical Center in Nis, Oncological clinic in Belgrade, many other and small things about the construction of sewers, water network, numerous roads. So, they were people while we were working, they were people when we had a vision, they were people who were just criticizing us, they were sowing hate, and they offered absolutely nothing new to the citizens, or Belgrade, or the whole of the Republic of Serbia. By this we are indeed different from our predecessors, we are different from the part of the opposition. I come from Rakovica, and I know how many homes of health on Swan Hill have been promising everyone and predecessors for more than 40 years, taking pictures next to an abandoned meadow where only grass and weed flourished. They have done absolutely nothing more than four decades for the citizens of Rakovica, for their health, for their primary health care. Also, they left us abandoned factories, suspicious privatisations. In Rakovica, a large British investment fund invested more than 30m euros and employed 450 people in the Capitol Park. It's about the biggest riyle park in Belgrade, where indeed close to 500 people have found a job. So that's the results, that's the consistency that makes us different from our predecessors. I truly believe that this ambitious project will be realized, but I also want to tell all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens living in our capital, the city of Belgrade, that we will continue with these ambitious projects, we will not stop. We are bound by the huge support we received in the previous Belgrade elections. By this we are different from the yellow company behind it, after the rule in the city of Belgrade, I will remind you, it has left nothing but desolation, virtual, failed projects, such as "the city's watch", such as the model of the Terrace, such as underground containers. That's exactly how we differ from our predecessors. I am indeed calling on all my colleagues from the SNS, from the coalition, but also from the part of the simply constructive opposition to support this really good legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36449	The National MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36450	Thank you. All the activities we carry out in our country, both Parliament and the Government of Serbia, which relate to the improvement of the standard of living of our citizens, i.e. the creation of better living conditions, are bringing us closer as a society to the most developed Western European countries, which, of course, also to EU membership. It's the kind of society we want to belong to, because the vast majority of our citizens see exactly the most developed Western countries as an ideal place to live, but also to educate their children. These are the conditions for life and work we want to create in Serbia, and this is only one measure we want to tell young people that they should stay in their country. The bill includes members of security forces who do not have a solution to the housing issue, and at this stage, it envisions building 1,578 apartments, in different parts of Serbia. I believe that after the construction of these apartments in the next phase, health and education workers will be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36451	Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36452	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, guests from the Ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, adding Article 3 concerning the adoption of this law to achieve the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the protection of vulnerable groups. I will talk about my concrete addition of Articles 3 and 3 to the specific amendment after I have first given several introductory notes. I must point out that for the first time in 30 years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has created a legal and economic framework for the realisation of housing for security forces. This law shows that it has a responsible attitude towards people who are day and night in charge and work to preserve the peace and security of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but also of our own country. Their work is extremely difficult, their work is extremely responsible. National security is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, that security forces should properly resolve their housing issue, especially those who have not resolved this issue in a permanent manner so far, or those who have inadequate housing and, in accordance with this law, meet the conditions to resolve it permanently. I must point out that, otherwise, this government, then prime minister, today the president of the state of Mr. Alexander Vukic, but only in the last three years has created financial sustainability for the realization of this project. Unfortunately, in 2012, the country was facing bankruptcy. Its basic substance, which is economics, were threatened to the point where no progress and development could be talked about. Today is the moment and today it's on the agenda. What does my amendment have to do with the bill? It's got something to do with it. It's got a direct connection. How? By building these apartments, the local unit will collect incomes from taxes on these apartments. These local self-government revenues are entered into the budget of local self-government from which funds are distributed as part of a single cookie to achieve the socio-protective function of local self-government. Therefore, by building apartments, local self-government will provide funds for more living rooms, for children distracted by development, for more personal and personal escorts, for several clubs for old and pensioners and in general to improve the position of the most vulnerable and vulnerable social groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36453	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36454	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, increased investment in public infrastructure shows how much some state has the opportunity to raise the standard of living for citizens. If the institutions are weak and the government is inefficient and corruption is linked to the waste of money, as it was by 2012, then any planning will remain in the form of promises. That's what we could see and feel on our own skin, and that's why over 30,000 members of security and military services were left without a basic, no place to live, with small incomes, with which they barely survived. The previous government left a 1.1 billion-euro debt in Belgrade during its term of office, debt to socially endangered categories and public enterprises operating minus 1.7 billion dinars. The country's economic progress depends on the government's determination and ability to implement essential reforms. The Serbian government has also shown determination and responsibility to citizens. We are witnessing reforms that lead to major changes in our lives, because this government has shown above all that Serbia should live, develop, that it should become a country where children will be born and remain living and working. In the first three months, the growth of the economy was higher than planned, is 4.5% and is the result of reforms that began earlier and continued this government. Construction and construction materials industry contributed most to Serbia's GDP growth this year in the first quarter. By the end of 2018, gross added value will be 5.4% for the whole year, and an additional boost to growth will be provided by housing programmes for members of security and defence forces. Realisation of a housing project for security forces will allow the resolution of the largest number of unsolved housing needs of security employees who have failed to resolve their housing issue for decades, which is Serbia's public interest. In the first phase of the project in six cities in Serbia, a total of 1,578 apartments are scheduled to be built that will cost 64.35m euros. All works will be carried out by domestic companies, which means there will be work for different professions and crafts, which directly leads to increased employment and overall development of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36455	The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36456	Dear Presidents, esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, guests from the ministry, fellow MPs, speaking on the submitted amendment to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the project for members of the security forces, and since it refers to increasing the efficiency of the judiciary, it is difficult not to mention former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, who, as Minister for the under-realed five years of ministerial mandate, during which he received a salary of 100,000 dinars and managed to save as much as 150 million dinars or over a million euros to buy the most luxurious pasture in Europe and build a residential building with an apartment of 190 m2 and a gallery of 139 m2. It's really impressive when a man who earns six million dinars in five years' time and saves 25 times the amount of money from those six million dinars, that's 150 million dinars. Most people will probably make it not even theoretically possible, but Sutanovac is the best proof that during the rule of the DS it was possible, especially if for his assistant for material resources, as he did set up his godfather. The legendary modesty and austerity of Dragan Sutanovac best illustrates the words of Amid Bislimi, former DS director, who publicly told his party colleague that he was arrogant and that while Serbian citizens were living on the edge of poverty, he wore a watch worth two-bedroom apartment in downtown Belgrade. If anyone knows Dragan Sutanovac, then they are his party colleagues, how can they not trust Bislimi when he says Dragan Sutanovac has more luxury handwatches worth tens of thousands of euros according to his findings? It is therefore time for citizens to know that Dragan Sutanovac owns the handbooks of prestigious Swiss brands such as "Belgium" and the golden "Kartija-rod old" worth 10,000 euros. Then the "Shopard-Honograf" worth over 4,500 euros, says the "Belge-gold Rose" worth 15,000 euros and the most expensive watch from his collection, Frank Miller-repetitist, whose price exceeds a large price of 30,000 euros. I think it's much clearer to all of us where the tanks, the hoods, the missiles and the rest of the spent weapons and the military equipment of our army, as well as the difference between their bazaar sales price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36457	The first amendment was filed by George Komlenski. He's not here. Did Anna Karadzic submit to the 1st amendment? He's not here. The first amendment was submitted by Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36458	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, the RS has passed a series of laws over the past few years that have solved decades of problems, that is, all those laws that some previous governments and some previous parliaments have not passed. It is precisely this law on special conditions for the realisation of the housing project for members of security forces that are one of the very important laws that citizens who are employed in the defence system of the Republic of Serbia are waiting very long. There are numerous effects on the adoption of this law. They are also important economically such as GDP growth, in the construction industry an increase in general employment, income from VAT incentives for the economic development of local self-government in which these apartments are being built, but other effects such as raising the reputation of security and the general quality of working conditions and the quality of life of all employees. In the past few years, we have done much to popularise the army and police of the Republic of Serbia with the goal of making as many young people decide to enroll in military high school, military academy and other schools and colleges in the field of security. It is this law that we show as a state how much we care for people who protect national security and do a really specific and difficult job. I think it is an additional incentive for future generations to spend their education and later working life for the purpose of protecting national security and security, and it is in the country to create such economic circumstances that these people have quality salaries and can solve their own housing issues, but at the same time to lead a policy of peace and stability in order to preserve the lives of our citizens. I don't think there's a serious man in this country who can question the necessity of passing and the quality of passing this law. Unfortunately, as we could see today, there are still too many non-serious people in politics whose self-promotion and self-promotion are the most important and as you can see here, already several hours of parliamentary benches where opposition MPs should sit are completely empty, I guess their problem is that they spend more than a few hours a day in their workplace. It is an honor for me as a national MP to be part of a call by the NS RS to pass such an important law and I will certainly vote with great satisfaction for it. Of course, it is expected that at some later stage, the town of Cačak will be one of the cities where such apartments will be built. I think there's both justification and all technical, legal and all other preconditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36459	The first amendment was submitted by Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36460	Thank you, President. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, distinguished colleagues, this law is certainly in the function of economic development. President Aleksandar Vukic's idea and initiative now has all the elements, since the first quarter of financial year, we have the largest recorded quarterly GDP growth in the last ten years. We have cities that slowly prepare locations, budgets are good and we have this law. We've had some remarks on the number of apartments and how it hasn't been solved at once for everything, but when you say the first phase, that means that there's continuity. We have conditions, we have fought for it, and the remark on this path to resolving the housing problem for all security forces is being challenged by those who were not even able to install underground containers in Belgrade. Also, the continuation of the LJig-Preljina-Pozega road is part of the road that has been disputed by those who have privatised in billions of euros everything that has worked in this country, and miles of highways have not been built. This will be good for people who actively contribute to our country's growth in the dedicated industry and that 500 million dollars in exports is part of the road to one billion that we expect in 2020, and the remarks were made by those who melted our army. An increase in wages of 10% is also part of the way towards a new increase, and the remarks were made by those who took the Parking Service in Belgrade down. All that is good for Serbia and what is good for our people will have this government and priority and continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36461	The first amendment was submitted by Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36462	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, today we are talking about amendments to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. In this way, members of both the MUP and the Serbian Army, and the BIA, and the criminal sanctions administration will have the opportunity to resolve their housing issue. In all of these services, there is one number of persons who have not been resolved during this period. Not because this government didn't want to, but because problems have accumulated over the years. I absolutely support this law. We must remember, dear fellow MPs, all those difficult moments in our history when it was this Serbian Army, when the police forces gave their maximum. We need to remember NATO aggression on KIM and all of that data that NATO was presenting after those military acts of theirs. Namely, they claimed to have destroyed, for example, over 300 tanks, over 500 armored vehicles, not to mention other weapons. Fortunately, we have the army we have, and we have an army that was able to respond to both the most difficult and the hardest times and to respond to the most difficult tasks. That's why this number, for example, is lost tanks 13, after these conflicts. It's just one example that I've set, and first of all for these reasons, therefore noble, I find that this project and this law should be adopted, and that this project should be revived. I only have one request, Mr. Minister, that the bravest members of the Serbian Army have the advantage of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36463	Dr Dragana Barisic submitted an amendment to Article 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36464	I thank the esteemed president. I have submitted an amendment to the first member of the law, because I believe that this would further define the bill. Otherwise, what is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to resolve the housing issue, as well as the material position of security forces, but not only of security forces but of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What we have shown in the previous period is that with the responsible government, the responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, we are able to restore Serbia to stable legs and to make life in Serbia the man and person it should be, and therefore we have the huge support of citizens, who are growing out of elections. What I would like to praise this occasion is to point out that Kruševac is an example of good practice and that in the previous year, more precisely a year ago, we shared the members of the Serbian Army's dwellings, in particular 33 apartments in the village of Petolj, and that once again we show that the local self-government of the town of Kruševac in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Serbia has once again shown that it works for the benefit of the people of Kruševec. On this occasion, I would add that unfortunately a number of security forces are involved in the events both during NATO bombing and the nature of the job, they also have health threats, so it is important that they are working on the recovery of the health system, which shows the recently opened Oncology Department and, of course, all the accompanying equipment that has arrived at the Clinical Centre of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36465	Thank you, colleague Barisic. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36466	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like to point out with this amendment that it is very important that through the bill we are discussing today, we look at the importance and traffic connection, traffic and traffic infrastructure. As the priority of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the past few years is precisely faster and more efficient work and systematic problem-solving, creating conditions for the better life of citizens, I would stress here that the policy implemented in accordance with the SNS work programme is expressed through citizens' care, especially through the care of members of the security force. This is confirmed by this opportunity through solving the life issue, resolving the housing issue for them, giving them huge support, and many positive effects are expected from the application of this law. Through an efficient plan-based approach to the resolution of the housing project for security forces, I would stress that it is very important that special attention be paid to good traffic infrastructure. When we talk about planning and building, of course, in addition to providing a life issue, that is, resolving the issue of a family housing facility for members of security forces, the key elements should include the coordination of all elements that form the basic infrastructure, including municipal and traffic infrastructures. From that aspect, key issues that need to be resolved, alongside municipal and traffic infrastructure, are responsible for such issues at the local republican level. As an example, I'm going to say that, let's say, in the Ub municipality last week, one street was built in the length of 500 meters. The value of this investment was 20 million and 300,000 dinars. So that's one of the questions that citizens have been waiting for for decades, as well as this question that today is being resolved about building buildings. Serbia is working, building, dealing with the issue of housing, building roads and streets, and that is one example of how it is responsible for local management, at the district level, at the government level of the Republic of Serbia, and so does President Aleksandar Vukic. Their work is absolutely reported in the language of numbers, facts on the ground, and I am sure that such reports will also show the effects of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36467	I thank my colleague Nikolic. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36468	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. This amendment further defines Article 1. It's a bill of law. The unresolved housing issue according to the defence ministry is waiting for more than 15,000 former and active members of Serbia's military. The state-owned housing project predicts that over a period of 10 years, two million squares of living space or about 30,000 apartments are being built. The necessary funding for the implementation of this state-owned housing project amounts to about a billion euros. It should be recalled that the realisation of this state project addresses not only the residential issue of the military and police forces of the Republic of Serbia, but this state investment will employ the construction industry in the longer term and allow a large number of new jobs to be opened. The minimum 35 industrial branches will be involved in the construction of these apartments. This will ensure that each invested dinar in this state project is returned to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, creating conditions for the future to increase the standard of our citizens from the real sources of revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget, thus ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and thus improving medical institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36469	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36470	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Government with co-workers from the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, at the beginning, since I had no opportunity to discuss in principle, I remained obliged to say to the citizens of Mladenovac, which is to thank the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Railway Infrastructure, because they quickly reacted to my initiative to fully reconstruct the train station in Mladenov, which is of great importance to us, because it is the oldest building in the city and Mladenovac, which is now a city of 55,000 inhabitants, would certainly not have existed in that place exactly if it had not been this railway station. So I had to say a little bit of a subject, before I explain my amendment, to thank you for your quick reaction to my initiative. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which adds item 3 to the growth of economic indicators and the development of the Republic of Serbia. The usual way to measure economic success is to measure economic growth as one of the objectives of economic policy. The commitment to economic growth is, in fact, the basis of the periods of exit from the crisis, where the output is seen one in favourable growth indices and one of the main indicators is GDP, which best shows the social standard. The population, and it is higher in the first trimester than planned and 4.5%, which is about 6.5 billion dinars, i.e. The surplus was shown in the first trimester. National security policy is part of a common state policy that harmonises measures and activities to achieve national security policy, setting the groundwork for Serbia's political, economic and social overall social development. Building subsidized apartments will systematically resolve the issue of housing for security members, while in the "Zemun Gates", one inspection apartment will be built, so that all interested will be able to see what quality and what apartments will look like for security forces. We're all looking forward to this beginning, we know there's going to be over 1,500 apartments, there's going to be more, this is the beginning, and just so we keep going. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36471	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blazo Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36472	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, infrastructure is the basis for development for our country, too, for economic growth and Serbia's development, it is important that we have a well-developed infrastructure. This means that the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia must continue to develop further in this sector. We live in a securely complex time, so it is essential that we strengthen our security forces and, of course, feel and know that the state appreciates their work and efforts to preserve Serbia's security. What we want through this law is to improve the living standards of security forces in Serbia, people who carry in them patriotism, loyalty and love of the country, and daily face the defence of the sovereignty of the state, territorial integrity and internal security of our country. The adoption of this law will make it easier to resolve the housing issue, and with further increases in salaries and improvements in the standard of living of members of the security forces of Serbia wants to say – thank you for the sacrifice they show towards their country. That is why it is extremely cynical and hypocritical to respect us for not taking care of the security forces, as MP Zoran Zivkovic said this morning. As they did, that is to say, taking care of our security forces and the state's best words when they released hundreds of Ship's terrorists on the loose in 2001, who when they came to the destination dressed the uniforms of the Kosovo Liberation Army and turned right against our security forces. That's how they took care of the state and the security forces of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36473	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36474	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Article 1. The bill adds the 3rd position -- the adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on health development. The objectives achieved by passing laws other than seeking to address the largest number of outstanding housing needs of security forces will significantly contribute to GDP growth in the area of construction and employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, the growth of VAT revenues on various grounds, the increase of income from property taxes, the reduction of time needed to complete administrative procedures, the reduction of administrative burden. All of these items indirectly have a positive impact on, inter alia, overall further development in the area of health in terms of higher investment in health-related infrastructure but also on direct investment in the construction and renewal of the clinical centre and institute. According to their nature, the provisions of the law have effects on, above all, domestic companies, entrepreneurs, or public authorities, as well as banks and other financial institutions. The proposed solutions will have a direct effect on companies, entrepreneurs, state bodies of the Republic of Serbia, authorities of the autonomous province and units of local self-government. The units of local self-government on whose territory these apartments will be built will be affected so that they will have increased income from property tax when apartments are built as well as the resolved housing needs of persons on the territory, the construction of public facilities that will be in office and users and all citizens from the territory of units of local self-government. This will also strengthen the budgets of local self-government that directly affect the development of primary health care, health homes that are founded by local self-government. They will have more money in their budgets, so on the basis of the distribution they will be able to invest more in the purchase of equipment necessary for the functioning of health homes as well as for the renovation and maintenance of sectoral hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36475	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36476	Dear President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens, the law we are discussing today certainly continues to be a policy of peace and stability and a policy of fair relations with citizens, a policy of fair relations with employees in the security system. No one has been forgotten and no one will be forgotten. This state and this government take care of all and 1578 apartments that are foreseen in the first phase are only the introduction to system-based housing problems, i.e. problems for citizens who have been working backwards for years, but also in other services where they help citizens, where the state is behind them, receive salaries from the state, are not able to buy apartments. By the end of the year, as the Deputy Prime Minister told us, 5,203 apartments are expected to be started, which would certainly contribute to the solution not only of the housing issues of these 5,203 families, but would affect both overall business and local self-government and of course the Republic of Serbia, but this, unlike others, is not pre-election promises and not just stories for story purposes. This is the plan, this is the law. This is a law that will make a solution and will surely oblige those who implement it to do so in the way provided for in the law. What encourages me, I am sure of all other MPs and of course citizens, is that this law stands behind the Government, stands exactly the Republic Assembly, but stands also the Ministry of Traffic which it has shown in previous years, since 2012, on here, as can be managed in the areas of infrastructure, traffic and construction. When Minister Mihajlovic said that one day we would be able to submit construction permits very quickly by electronic means, it seemed like an impossible mission, and with 180 seats, we burned in 10th place. What this law will provide is that in just three or four years, probably all members of the security service who need it will be able to resolve their housing issue, but it will certainly be a model of how and how we will address the housing issues of all those who need help. I repeat, it's been building and doing everything since World War II, on here, housing was being built, but during the yellow business period, not that apartments were not built, they found a solution to reduce the needs of apartments in order to reduce the number of members of the Republic of Serbia's Army, and they didn't need flats, and they didn't plan them. This country has a future, has an army, has a law that will provide security services with a housing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36477	Thank you. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36478	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Law and have suggested that Article 3 be added with a view to further explaining and promoting the policy of the SNS, the Government and the policy of Alexander Vukic. I believe this law belongs to a set of patriotic laws, like the laws we discussed at the previous session and not only discussed, but adopted them. I mean the Military Act, the Defense Act, the BIA Act. We have heard from some MPs here, that now members of the Security Service will receive apartments of 500 euros per square metre. We immediately made it clear that they will get nothing, but they will buy apartments, not 500 euros per square metre, but up to 500 euros per square metre. The upper limit and dwellings, i.e. the price of squares, can only go lower, depending on the location and the city where the building is to be built. There is no doubt that such a proposal will continue the trend of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as Serbia's trend of citizens' care and SNS MPs will support such a government policy, a policy set by President Aleksandar Vucic. In this way, we will begin to correct now the decades of injustice and the country's care for the members of the security service and not only the act towards the active composition of the security service, but also the pensioners who will now be able to buy apartments under the same conditions and that they are employed. One of the opposition MPs, Jeremic's vice president, discussing this, said, quoting Orwell's "Life Farm", that members of the security service are now somewhat more equal than other citizens. I guess she thought they had better rights. This isn't about rights, it's about the possibilities that the state allows security officers to buy apartments at a affordable price. No one here has any more rights. There's only talk here about possibilities. It should be noted that the state is now appearing as an investor. That's why the prices are like this. The state does not go to the market to sell apartments and make profits, but to come out with one single goal, the only benefit that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants, the initiator of this action, President Aleksandar Vucic, SNS and all of our coalition partners, which is that we have satisfied members of the security service, that is, the sector. This time it's the sector, and as the state gets stronger, it's standing on its feet, in the next year, two, three or five, we're going to do the same thing with other sectors. I mean health care and education. I don't want to talk about cheap apartments anymore. These aren't cheap apartments. These are apartments of subsidized prices. These are high-quality apartments that security officers can buy at a good price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36479	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Fired Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36480	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is another indication that this government is responsible for its citizens. Finally, members of the security forces can settle their housing issues. Addressing this problem, which has not been solved for decades, is crucial to strengthening the national defence system of the Republic of Serbia. I will list only a few data related to the construction of these apartments in Belgrade. In Belgrade, 14,209 of these apartments are to be built and five locations for their construction are already set. These are the Maquis Field, Block 51, Surcinsko polje and for the Municipality of Palilula, where I come from, especially important two locations, the location in Borca and the location in Ovca. The location in Ovca is already ready to build these apartments. Property-legal relations have been resolved and it is only necessary to invest in the utility of this location. Construction in this location would satisfy about 2,000 apartments, which would represent the first phase of building these apartments in Belgrade. In recent years, the left coast of the Danube Municipality of Palilu, where these two locations are located, has been rapidly developing. The Pupin Bridge was built, the Zemun – Pančeva road was connected. Construction of an industrial park in Borca has been announced, building a new home of health. The construction of these apartments will further improve the attractiveness of this part of Belgrade and Palilula and have a positive impact on the living conditions of our citizens. It is very important for our country and for this municipality that these apartments will be built by the domestic construction industry. There will be opportunities to employ the local population. There will be a rise in VAT revenues on various grounds, as well as an increase in property tax, etc. So building these apartments will lead to the development of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the area of infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36481	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36482	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, in Article 1. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces is added item 3, which reads: "The adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions." Given the great importance of the draft law on the efficiency of judicial institutions and on the principle of the effectiveness of the judiciary, it is necessary in the very proposal for a law to explicitly and unequivocally highlight and affirm the principle of efficiency of judicial institutions, which is precisely achieved by this proposed amendment, to provide the necessary documentation for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Interior, the BIA, the Ministry of Justice, the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as for former members of the security forces that have obtained the right to retire in one of these state bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36483	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36484	I thank the chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 in which Article 3 is added, because I believe that this further defines Article 1 relating to the human structure and human resources in such an important area as housing and construction. In order to explain the amendment that I have submitted, it is very important to stress that the Bill on the Construction of Apartments for Security Services has preceded systematic resolution of all issues and overcoming all possible problems that may arise in the realisation itself, since the implementation of the project begins at different locations at the same time, in several different cities, and that there are other obligations, such as the procedure of expropriation and changes of the planning documents. As a result, a task force was formed to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the construction project, Minister Mihajlovic's decision of 11.12.2017. When forming this task force, it is very important to take care of the competence and expertise of the members of the commission, or working group, in order to avoid any additional problems and to implement the whole process within the time limit. Because of previous bad experiences in the realization of many projects that are fortunately behind us, above all delay, I added Article 3 to Article 1, that even within the law itself there is an additional position which, by law, commits to high criteria when selecting human resources for implementing such a serious area as housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-21-0.u36485	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we do today's work. We continue our work tomorrow, Tuesday, May 22, 2018, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
