ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41857	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a situation a few weeks ago, during a meeting of the European Council in Brussels, where the heads of EU member states attended, a decision was made on the ongoing and resolution of the migrant crisis. And the information is that the EU will make a buffer zone out of the so-called Western Balkans, whatever it means, or, as it is said, a parking lot for migrants. With this in mind, I ask the foreign ministry, Minister Ivica Dacic, the Ministry of Interior and Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic – how will the state of Serbia react, what measures will it take to protect its integrity and security of its citizens and is it possible that we will allow our country to make parking for migrants? It's enough of this that we lie to ourselves when we say it's not exactly like that, that it's just individual members, that it's just some countries, that it's not an official position, etc. So it's an official EU decision that the state of Serbia should react to if its priority is the safety and interests of its citizens. Don't forget that a terrible terrorist attack took place in Paris two years ago at Bataklan Theatre, where one of the main attackers, in an attack that took more than 160 human lives, entered Europe, entered Serbia, and Serbia's borders crossed over to Presevo. What will happen to potential terrorists when they can't get any further from Serbia, will their actions begin to be celebrated in our territory? This is a very important topic to be adequately answered. We also had on Monday, when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic was admitted to the Jelisen Palace, and after a press conference, i.e. at the conference, French President Emmanuel Makron, who according to some estimates is currently the leading and most powerful politician in the EU since Angela Merkel has less and less support within her coalition and within Germany, and that Germany currently has a weak influence in the EU, that there is nothing and there is no way and that it is not realistic that Serbia joins the EU in 2025. And then we can read in our media – if these conditions are met, if the full rule of law is established, that is the date. Who are we lying to? Are we lying to ourselves? We look like someone who, when he doesn't like the answer to the question, tries to rephrase the question in the hope of getting a better answer. So we need to accept reality, there is no EU, and with this, we need to make a completely different approach and not talk about resolving and finally solving Kosovo's problem, so that this is not a topic. The only platform could be the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly says both in the preamble and in the oath of the president and in the oath of the ministers, which is KIM, and this must not be debated. I ask the same question to Alexander Vukic, will, since the conflict is frozen, the worst solution in his opinion, when we unfreeze the situation in Kosovo, begin to defrost the situation both in Vojvodina and in the Rasko area and in Republika Srpska, etc.? Where is this red line when our leadership begins to protect our national interests?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41859	The word has a national emissary, Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41860	Thank you. I refer my question to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, then to Culture and Information Minister Vladna Vukosavljevic and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. A little less than a month ago, the National Museum, one of the most important cultural institutions in our country, opened. The Museum of Contemporary Art opened last year. Both mentioned culture institutions deserve to be housed in most of our art. My question for ministers is – are they aware that over the past few years, more than 140 works of art have disappeared from the embassy, consulates and residence of the former Yugoslavia? Only 40 pieces are missing from the embassy in Rome, and a disputed list is also in Washington, The Hague, Stockholm, Zurich and Oslo. Where many works have ended, so far it's unknown. Are the ministers and ministries headed by knowledge in the territory of which the countries are part of this rich artistic heritage, which were mostly created by Serbian painters? As I mentioned, the largest number of works, about 40, is missing in Rome. These are mainly graphics by Slovenian artist Bozidar Jakac, otherwise the most famous Tito portraitist. The work of our artists at the Embassy in Rome is missing “The Bird Girl” Miodrag Protic. There are neither Serbian works in Washington, The Hague, Stockholm, Zurich, Mexico, Ankara, Vienna and Oslo. These pictures include "Ulica" Ljubice Cuce Sokic, "Paris" Pedje Milosavljevic, who were at the Oslo Embassy, as well as three works by Stojan Aralica from our diplomatic representation in Stockholm. Some images walked from the embassy to the embassy, especially in Arab countries, just before the beginning of the war conflicts in those areas. They're good for safety and they're transferred from one diplomatic office to another. Let's remind ourselves, during a period of succession, a few times shared treasure from diplomatic representations, and most of that treasure belonged to our country. The value of this collection is that the largest number of images is almost completely unknown to the public, because the art studio rights went to the embassy. The paintings were most purchased in the '50s, when diplomatic representations of the then state were established around the world. According to the distribution of Yugoslav art heritage that was found in embassies and consulates, Serbia is richer in works by "the Women's Act" by Stevan Aleksic of 1920, otherwise this work is estimated at a figure of between 150m and 200m euros, then, a detail of the Kosovo cycle "The Drape Horses", "Kosovo Boy", Petra Lubarde, "The Girl in the People's Night" by Mark Celebonovic. Otherwise they are the most represented works of Stojan Aralica, Petra Lubarda, with 20 paintings each, so Petar Konjovic, Peđa Milosavljevic, as well as Milic of the Sword. The list of the most valuable works Serbia has received through the succession includes the "Motiv from the Paris Environment" of Sava Šumanovic, who was at the embassy in Moscow. Did the censusors make a material mistake, so Shumanovic's "Shidish landscape" misnamed or this most valuable picture from the diplomatic collection was estimated at a figure of between 200 and 300 000 euros, mysteriously missing, so far unknown. I demand that the ministries answer the question of what happened to this section and where it is at the moment. Question for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – does the Ministry own a list of all registered works of art? Is there any written explanation for missing works of art? A question for ministers – will the state of Serbia ask for a response on their disappearance via Interpol? Will these three ministries take any joint action to learn the fate of these acts and to return to Serbia? Public information works, the value of the Serbian diplomatic collection is that most of the paintings are completely foreign to the professional public, and according to experts, some of them are the most valuable works of individual artists. For this reason, I propose that these images representing the Serbian art of the past century be returned to Serbia and made available to our audience and that images of contemporary artists be placed in diplomatic representations. This before, as mentioned at the outset, was recently opened by the National Museum, and last year the Museum of Contemporary Art and works that I mentioned was certainly a place in the two institutions of culture mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41861	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41862	Thank you, Chairman. I'm asking the Minister of Interior Nebojsa Stefanovic. I immediately note, since the stenographic record is fully and securely recording our every word, I ask the minister to answer every single question I ask, not in general, of the selected questions. I also note that for everything I say I own evidence and photographs, which are available to everyone, both on social networks and in media reports, and are equally available to both the minister and his associates, which means that the possible information of the MUP and Minister Stefanovic on persons who will be the subject of my questions cannot stand exactly, and unless the minister and the MUP answer these questions, I will consider that those who are the subject of my questions, their organisations, the Ministry and the minister themselves are directly protecting. The questions are next. What is the plan, what is the goal and what is the intensive involvement of Serbian right-wing members and associates of Misa Vacic in the official private and actually pro-regime security services? How can Stevan Djokic, who runs a private agency called DBA for the security of the investigation and defense brand this DBA almost identical to the official police, from badges, cars to all other features, thus creating a general public confusion through the picture that it is actually a formal police force? Did the minister ever warn Stevan Djokic that it was forbidden and who even allowed him to do so? How is it possible that this same Stevan Djokić, I own photographs, in arms with Misa Vacic, with Tomislav Lovrekovic, so-called. a journalist who was arrested for sending me threatening texts of death and who daily produced against me, now enters with the same DBA and kindergartens, enters schools and holds some kind of so-called. - Training? So there are also data in the media that they were in the kindergarten "Iva and Maša" in Lazarevec, at the Nadezhda Petrovic Elementary School in Belgrade, and I believe in other schools and kindergartens. Do we not know who is in the middle of Belgrade for six months because of these phenomena, and on three occasions, writing through the facades of me threatening the messages "Marinika, understand, we will not stop," which were the result of my questions about what British fascist Jim Dawson is doing in Serbia? Is it because Jim Dawson keeps walking around Belgrade and Novi Sad in front of all of us and training ultra-rightists and their protectors how to act and threaten the opposition of Alexander Vukic? How is it possible that this same Stevan Djokic from the agency so-called. The DBA also enters the shelter for children in Belgrade's jurisdiction and simulates some charity action, and still does so with prominent SNS and Vacic Serbian right-wing member Vuko Mentovic? Mentovic is also an associate of JIM Dawson and, as I said, there are photos and evidence. At the same time, of course, Stevan Djokic has not recently been stripped of the regime media, which is already a matrix and a rainstorm that we had in the 1990s, creating a regimeal parapolitia. Then, how is it possible to mention Vuk Mentovic, who is represented as the president of the Friends Club of the United Police Union, along with the president of this recently established police union, Marina Starcevic, abuses police and members of the Belgrade Children's Association, when police officers are banned from political engagement and action, and the media have announced that Starcevic, along with this Vuk Mentovic of SNS and Serbian Right, has shared something with children at the shelter? At the same time, how is it possible for the same alleged action, apart from Starcevic and Mentovic, as a member of Djokic's DBA, to participate in a certain Nemanja Ristic, who also recognises the political organisation of Zavetniki, who enters the shelter for children and works for the parapolitan DBA, while having a deeper criminal record, and reliable sources claim at the psychiatric facility Lazarevic? How can you not know that for Nemanja Ristic, the killer who committed the murder in 1994 during the execution of members of the water and star clan, when Tatjana Nikolic was killed in the 20th year old and that he was released from prison in 2012? Do you, Minister, not know that Nemanja Ristic is listed as being arrested for the death of Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac and former US Ambassador Michael Kirby? Is that all, Ministers, the unfathomable members of the auxiliary police that you wanted to promote, and perhaps the future, if that's what you're going to do? Is it because of all this, Minister, of our peoples MPs to the opposition...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41863	Thank you, colleague Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41864	Let me just finish my sentence. Is it because of all this, Minister, that the MPs of the opposition can threaten various Vacics and Lovrekovics trained by fascist Jim Dawson, who protects and helps your SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41865	Thank you, colleagues. The word has a folk emissary from Tatjan Macuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41866	I thank the chairman. I would like to refer the first question to the Prime Minister, Miss Ani Brnabic, then to the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic and to the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic. Yesterday we received information from the public that the president of the state of Aleksandar Vucic, participated in another round of negotiations in Brussels, with which we are interested in whether there is a document which we have authorised Alexander Vukic to negotiate and participate in the negotiations in Brussels on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, representatives of the National Assembly? If there is such a document, I ask that it be delivered to the National Assembly for insight and also to be shown to the citizens of our country. On the other hand, it would not be bad, so I consider it a kind of obligation for the president of the state to report exactly what is on the negotiating table, what is our country's position and practically to submit a kind of more detailed report, because the message that it was very difficult yesterday in the negotiations, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and those living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, have absolutely no benefit, nor can they have any knowledge of what their further future will look like. The second question I would like to refer to the Ministry of Military, more specifically Minister Vulin, so I would like the Ministry of the Army to forward a document to me, which clearly describes what the minister of the military in the protocols looks like. in public some implementation of the protocol? So does he have the opportunity and the right and what it should look like when a military minister, in front of Serbian citizens, is taking part in some official visits? Can he wear an informal military uniform, which most often resembles a paramilitary uniform and thus mocks the representatives of the Army? Can he wear a uniform that reminds people who perform municipal activities in the area of maintenance of chimneys? I'm interested in a protocol that allows one of the Ministers of the Republic of Serbia to represent such an important ministry in this way? The third question is referred to by Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, who is one of the few ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, who at least answers my questions very quickly and in due time, however, remains a duty to answer one question. It may seem small today, because it is not as big as any other state issue, but it concerns a small number of students living in the Lipik village, in the village of Tulari, in the municipality of Ub, who have a physical problem reaching the elementary school they attend. This time it's two kilometers long, it's not a road that's of great importance, and with that, I'm guessing it's not a priority, but if you take into account that it's about students who attend primary school and who have to walk that way, and I've got information about what this trip looks like and this is a picture from June, so it's not about the flood, this is the most ordinary shower that's fallen these days, this brown, all you see, that's the water on that road, and I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister to help people, or children who are attending elementary school in order to be able to attend school properly since September. The fourth question is referred to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour as responsible for the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. As always, I will ask for a report on the implementation of this law, but there is one question, which seems to me to be left unsaid, which may be a big problem, which is when it comes to persons with disabilities, who suffer domestic violence, from bullies who are most often in a position to be their personal assistants, how does the Centre for Social Work solve this issue when giving away the measure of distance to a bully from this family? So we need to make it clear whether some rule has decided this, whether it exists, for example. a decision to get some geronto housewife to help people with disabilities, who reported a case of domestic violence? And lastly, I hope that time will allow me, once again I appeal to the President of the Assembly and to you Vice President, if we can maintain a college in which we will agree to normalise the work of the National Assembly. With that in mind, I urge you to stop making pointless amendments that, I'm going to say one example, which deals with the recovery of medical care when it comes to the law on cells and tissues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41867	I thank you, colleague Macura Word has a National MP, Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41868	I thank the chairman. I would like to ask a few questions from the part-round of undeveloped areas in southeastern Serbia. The first question was specifically directed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and first I would like to thank President Vukic for the current and previous prime minister of the state, for the journey that ended from Svrljag to the Stari Planina, for the road that was very important for all citizens who wanted to go to the Stara Planina, and the best destination is that road that goes, the one that comes from the side to the airport, across the airport, through the master's road to Svrlig, across Svrlig to the Stara Mountain. This is what I want to inform all people who want to go to the Old Mountain, visit the Resort Hotel, visit the beauty, pearl of tourism. That's the part of Serbia that's really the most beautiful thing. You can come now, that road is done, that the road is in excellent condition. But my question was also in part, when mobile network coverage will be provided, the Internet network, because we all know that there are really a large number of tourists coming and going towards the Old Mountain, but the problem is the inaccessibility of the network, which is also another need that we need to end up providing through the competent ministry, through operators to ensure network coverage throughout the entire road, because in this way we will really have the possibility not only that people can communicate, that they can find themselves in every place, quality agricultural products, which are very transparent, good, excellent, such as the Srljjljski Belmuž in the framework of which the organisation "Belmužijada" is formed. It is some tourist-agricultural character that will be back in a few days in Svrlig, i.e. 3, 4 and 5 August. I'd invite all the people to come, to visit the Srlig municipality, to go to the Old Mountain, to the Resort Hotel, which is really the most beautiful thing. I expect that, together with Director Karadzic, the Resort Hotel, we will have the opportunity to provide more accommodation facilities in the coming period, because my wish is that all of our citizens in southeastern Serbia, that the Stara Planina is developing, that it is working, and I hope that the competent ministry and vice-president of the government, Mr. Ljajic, will have the opportunity to reach Svrlig, to go to Stara Planina. I'd invite him to come to Belmozijad in public like this. It's a tourism and business organization and a event where there will be over 100,000 people in three days. In this place you can see quality products, domestic work, sports activities, and that's all our Serbia, our people, our peasants cherish and respect, respect. In one place, quality products can be tried, because we are witnessing that nature has given us everything, that in small municipalities such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Merošina, Sokobanja, Književić and a large number of small municipalities in southeastern Serbia have the opportunity to deal with agriculture, and when we deal with agriculture through such organisations as "Belmožijada", such as rural tourism, such as hunting tourism, such as the Hotel Resort on the Old Mountain, with Director Karadzic at the helm. It's a great chance for agriculture to develop. In order to develop agriculture, favourable loans are also needed. I would ask the director of the Post Office, Mr. Kekic, as the Post Office is one of our state-owned banks that really puts a great deal of attention on undeveloped areas, on small municipalities, because we are witnessing that a large number of small municipalities like my municipality of Svrlig, as well as Babusnica and many other such municipalities, do not have their own banks. This is why there is a Post Office that wants to cover every village, every municipality, with its favourable credits, with the possibility of small municipalities developing, because without a quality bank, without favourable credits, and this is what I say really from the heart, the Post Office headed by Mr. Kekic gives great support to the development of agriculture, quality conditions are there. Another question – does the state of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture provide a subsidy through a credit and credit subsidy programme and repay credit for those clients who take loans for agriculture through the Post Office? I think that all of us who are here want a good development of the southeast of Serbia, the development of agriculture, and therefore once again as a man who comes from a small municipality, from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Srljiga, in front of the United Peasant Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41869	Thank you, fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41870	... I invite everyone to come to Belmužijad, to see the beauty of our region and quality products.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41871	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41872	Thank you. My question adds to the first part of the Macura question and concerns the authority of the platform with which the President of the Republic of Serbia participates in the Brussels dialogue. So we saw again yesterday that in a delegation of Pristina, besides Hashim Thaci, there was also a prime minister or so on. The prime minister of the Republic of Kosovo, that there is the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, so-called and in the Serbian delegation, we do not know as MPs of the People's Parliament, not that the Prime Minister or the President of the Assembly participate, but actually the Assembly does not know what is being discussed, but must look from the tabloids and read between the ranks, and not rarely even from the Pristina media. The issue was addressed to the Prime Minister and to the foreign minister. In that context, and in fact it is very specific and concerns the statement by the senior Russian official of Unity Russia, the ruling Russian party and member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Russian Dum, who, several times, last time two days ago, warned, reminded, advised, appealed, whatever you want and we want to understand, Serbian authorities to be careful about the negotiations and so on. A comprehensive agreement with Pristina, because, he said, and it is happily and often seen by a guest in Serbia and in the ranks of the current Serbian and Serbian ruling parties, the SNS, now, gentlemen, Mr. Zeleznjak, warns you that, I quote, and this is not the first time: "Requirements to sign an agreement between Belgrade and Pristina will lead you to Serbia's territorial disintegration of NATO protectorates and probably be the introduction to further secession and further disintegration of Serbia's state." So, I repeat and stress – a senior Russian official of the Russian ruling party, often and happily seen and quoted by a guest in the ruling media, i.e. the government of nearby media in Serbia, is now sending a message that, behold, suddenly, does not come across such an echo or is barely recorded in our official media. So does the Foreign Ministry have any comment, or the Serbian Government, on these statements? Even very, I would say, cruelly, but I am afraid, exactly, Mr. Željnjak reminds and compares these negotiations and this agreement that should be signed by Belgrade or Serbia with Kosovo, compared to the Munich Agreement, which led to the collapse of Czechoslovakia, and ultimately did not bring peace, as was announced and what was just, but was actually the introduction to World War II. So, Czechoslovakia fell apart, it was torn apart, and in the end, I say, neither did that save the rest of Czechoslovakia from the complete occupation nor prevented World War II. This is a very important warning from the friendly side, a warning they're not responding to, at least for the time being, our representatives of the government. I am grateful to the competent ministries who very often and neatly answer my questions, but, unfortunately, the most important issues, with the most important addresses, generally remain unanswered. This is an example of such questions. So, everything about negotiations with Kosovo, everything about so-called. Brussels dialogue, anything related to the so-called The comprehensive agreement to be announced here remains somehow shadowed or pushed under the carpet. Why is it that, perhaps we can assume, given that this particular government, I don't think this government, but in April 2013, this government signed the Brussels Agreement, which has not yet been implemented precisely in those points that concern or should refer to the Serbian side and in 2015, too, and in particular Alexander Vukic, signed another Brussels Agreement after which, I repeat and quote, congratulated via Twitter and said that "our people at KIM have reason for pleasure, we have achieved good agreements, we are establishing a community of Serb municipalities tonight." It was August 25, 2015. The Brussels deal was two years earlier. So, it's been three or five years since that announcement, nothing from the Serb municipalities community, nothing from the interruption of dialogue, nothing from reviewing or giving up an agreement in those aspects that have not been realised at all by Pristina, and therefore I ask you both to ask the government and the foreign minister for this matter, especially given these views of the Russian side, or Mr. Željnjak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41873	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41874	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow the direct transmission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, God helps everyone! My question goes to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and I would like the National Assembly's professional services to inform me if the president of Serbia has ever answered a single parliamentary question raised by the Serbian Movement Group of Dveri. So we are dealing with a president of Serbia who absolutely does not respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and never answers parliamentary questions. It clearly speaks of the character of his authority and the character of his personality, so I ask him this time to finally get answers to our questions. Some of them I'll repeat in my presentation. The first question is on the basis of what powers Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is leading the so-called. Secret negotiations on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija? When was he here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? When did he present his negotiating platform here? So, when did he get the support of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that he could go anywhere and negotiate on Kosovo and Metohija and based on what constitutional law is in his jurisdiction to negotiate, lead and resolve such political issues in this way? What about the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The government of the Republic of Serbia is one of the offices of the president of Serbia and his subordinate state body or what? So, this is not only the collapse of the complete Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which began in 2013, by signing anti-constitutional Brussels agreements by Ivica Dacic and Aleksandr Vucicic, and here it continues with the further collapse of Serbia's Constitution and the takeover of full power into the hands of the Serbian president. I ask when were we in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the last two years of this new assembly session talking about Kosovo and Metohija? Never. Kosovo and Metohija are spoken of worldwide, everywhere, except in this House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Another thing I ask the president of Serbia – why did he not inform the Serbian public that the format of the Brussels talks had changed? More in Brussels, as we can all see, is not discussing the Brussels agreements and applying what is not applied from so-called, otherwise anti-constitutional, Brussels agreements. It has become a new form of conversation that is nothing more than talks on Kosovo's final status and Metohija, i.e. on the signing of legally binding agreements with this non-existent and false state, which means the recognition of an independent Kosovo by the current government in Belgrade, which means membership of the so-called. An independent Kosovo in the UN, which means, therefore, giving up the territory of the Serbian state, a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which recognises Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia. That's what's happening in Brussels right now. That's what President Vukic is talking about. This is witnessed by his conversators and war criminals and terrorists he is speaking with in Brussels, and it is clear that in the next few months, Aleksandar Vukic must fulfil his commitment that he took over when he came to power with the help of the West in 2012, to sign a legally binding agreement with the false state of Kosovo, to enable Kosovo to join the UN and to recognise independent Kosovo. If it is not true what I say, let Alexander Vukic come out publicly among the citizens and say he will never sign such an agreement, that he will never give a chair to Kosovo in the UN, but, as you can see, he must not say it, because it is clear that he is currently negotiating in secret. The second and final question, i.e. the third and final question, is why can't I get an answer from anyone in the state government for a month, why doesn't our state summit call a Russian military mission to Serbia and thus ensure security for all citizens of Serbia, especially those in Kosovo and Metohija? So why does the whole state summit keep quiet for a month on this constructive proposal of the Serbian Dvera Movement, to strengthen our negotiating position, to make geopolitical balance, to get the support of our ally who would send a Russian military mission here and if Alexander Vukic is already so great a friend with Vladimir Putin, as he boasts every day, I am sure that Vladimir Putin would respond positively to this call and send a Russian military mission to Serbia, as he sent a Russian military mission to Syria, at the invitation of the state summit there? From this, which has no response for a month, to this constructive proposal by the opposition, to call on the Russian military mission to Serbia, as it was in Serbia from 1999 to 2003, it is clear to me that this authority must not do so, because Aleksandar Vukic is a blackmailed man and because he will sacrifice Kosovo and Metohija for his survival in power. Kosovo will sell for its survival in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41875	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41876	I refer to the question, or I request information from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. At what stage is the adoption of a solution, i.e. a positive opinion of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, based on the decision of the Niš City Assembly to determine the name of the settlement? In fact, the Committee for the Names of Cities and Street Names of the City of Nisa reached its conclusion at its meeting on 4 April 2014, on a proposal for an initiative by citizens called Banja Topilo, to give the place called Topilo the name and status of the settlement. The decision-making process under this request drew the opinion of the Planning and Construction Authority regarding the status of Banja Topilo. The territory on which Banja Topilo is located was explored through two valid spatial plans, so that the Assembly of the City of Nisa decided on 14 October 2014 under number 064512602 and launched an initiative to determine the name of the newly elected town of Banja Topilo. Banja Topilo is located on the northern edge of the Niška kolina, 25 km away from Nis. This relatively small spa was discovered by accident, but the news of her medicine spread rapidly. Warm mineral water, springs from about 18 sources and has a temperature of 34 degrees Celsius. Otherwise, water is suitable for rheumatoid diseases and the nervous system, as well as chronic internal organs. Banja has about 180 houses with approximately 500 registered beds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41877	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41878	I thank the chairman. My first question or better to say asking for information or information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, concerns the Foreign Ministry. With great respect, according to all that Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic and the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, through a diplomatic struggle for, above all, respect for the Brussels Agreement and finally resolving the issue of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo, we MPs should know the following facts. First, what is it that it has fulfilled, first and foremost taken over, and then fulfilled Pristina, and what is it that relates to the Brussels Agreement that has taken over and fulfilled Serbia? The issue is a very important issue, given that the Brussels Agreement is becoming less and less affirmative as a kind of bond in a legal sense that implies the commitment of both parties, because the Brussels Agreement is not signed unilaterally, but is signed by both Pristina and Serbia. Good citizens of Serbia know what the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, or our country so far, has done and what all obligations on our part have been made to the level that Serbia can be considered absolutely committed to the Brussels Agreement and to the final resolution of the Kosovo issue, of course protecting our people, the Serbian people in Kosovo territory, and finally a solution through reaching certain compromises that are clearly inevitable. Also, our citizens and how well they know that we have recently met the facts of how much the state has withdrawn recognition from the state, so-called. "The state of Kosovo", so it would be good to get information from the foreign ministry whether such a trend will continue, and it is certain that it will continue in the future? What are these countries, given their geostrategic position, with their surface or size in mind, their population? What countries have given up or withdrawn recognition to Kosovo, and what countries are likely to be in future, given the importance and role of these countries in the international field of action? The second question I ask is about the information I ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection or Ecology, whether within the framework of the National Environment Protection Strategy there is a programme that connects to the various sites of the territory of the Republic of Serbia which are obviously ecologically endangered, whether, given the degree of threat of these sites, of course, environmental hazards will increase the number of so-called. protected goods or protected territories? In this sense, I will refer to one of such protected territories, it is Tara National Park in the territory of the Zlatibor County, as well as Nature Park located in the territory of Wekre Gora, where the immeasurable contribution to the protection of the site was given by our distinguished and highly authoritative representative and in the international community, the man who helped the state of Serbia, and this is Emir Kusturica. The last question I would ask is the Ministry of State and local self-government. It is likely that this issue will also be related to other resolution ministries, and this is about the status of public enterprises of regional character. Namely, we're witnessing that we have a so-called. regional dumps that do not yet have their legal basis and which are still not systemically solved. It would be good to systematically regulate the issue of organisation and the status of such public enterprises, which establish several local self-governments, i.e. municipalities and cities. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41879	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41880	It's a question for the Prime Minister. All of us here remember, of course, that in 2011, the Law on Public Property was passed, that the time limit for the application of that law was three years original, and that by our decisions, we here, by the decision of the majority above all, twice delayed the application of that law completely. What is the idea of this law and I will remind the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? This is primarily the registration of property and cities and municipalities of local self-government with a view to more efficient management of these very resources and ways not to convert these institutions exclusively to public works contractors, but to those who can foster local economic development and thanks to the enrolment of these assets and the position of those assets. As far as public enterprises are concerned, I will mention, of course, the importance of enrolling property because of the corporation we have often heard about. Some of these public enterprises are corporateized, but I'm going to show now what's essentially going on in the way this law is applied. That is why I call on all fellow Members of Parliament and MPs to do something about it, not only by passing laws, but also by controlling the way these laws apply. Here are some examples. If we had full application of this Law on Public Property and that public enterprises had entered their property, we would have had defined relations, and we have an actual story about the main railway station in Belgrade, which is owned and registered property of "Serb Railways", which is a stock society, that for years the generations of people who have worked in "Serb Railways" invested in infrastructure, together with the state, and that we have adopted a Law on Public Property that has just enabled "the Railways" to register this property. What happens now in that vague application of this law? I call on the Prime Minister to give us an answer to that very question. For years, all these assets, invested in "Serb Railways" have been transferred to function, above all, majority capital, foreign private capital, in the project "Belgrade on Water", and I will remind you that 68% of the ownership of "Belgrade on Water" is compared to 30 private and 32% is the state's participation. We have a similar situation, and in several different cases, I will give this example of the city of Nis, transferring ownership of Nis airport where I ask the Prime Minister and the Secretary-General in charge of Mihajlovic, who answered to one of my questions about the transfer of Nis airport ownership to the state that Nis did not own it anyway, and then insisted for months on making a decision by the Assembly of the City of Nis on the transfer of the same property that the minister claims the city of Nis does not have. So this is how the Law on Public Property is applied, and I call on the Prime Minister to show courage enough to go before this Assembly and the public and answer these questions. The same is true of buildings when we talk about "Belgrade on Water", about the GEO buildings, about the Hotel "Bristol" and about the state property in general. The next question is the way state property was sold to which DIPOS and the Republic Property Directorate were managed. We know that two years ago some of that property was transferred to the Republic Directorate, that some of that property was sold and my question, meet all MPs, and I want that very list of new owners of that state property, and we also know that shortly after the transfer of that property to the new private owners of that property and sold at a more expensive price. So we need that information, too. Third question for the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mrs. Maju Gojkovic. We have already made a request, and we have already invited her to give us an insight into the footage available from this room, the violence that our colleague Alexandra Jerkov has experienced. Those videos, I'm sure, are available. We don't have an answer from the President of the Assembly. So the threats on her papers were visible to all of us here in the O.R., but we also need material evidence that the President of the Assembly will certainly not support the violence in this... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41881	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41882	Thank you, Chairman. I have a few questions and one suggestion. The suggestion refers to these Gilas dunes from the false Patriot organization of the Dvori who were making a fuss today. When Gilas is ordering parliamentary questions, he should at least train them when it comes to certain elemental categories of the Constitution, constitutional competences, etc. I ask the question about the recent news reported by the media that the president of Paracin municipality, Sasa Paunovic, who is also vice president of the DS, who is known as the Paracian despot, has called him Paracins, filed some appeal to the Committee for the Local Administration of the Council of Europe, which was supported by his coalition partners, the mayor of Sapca and the president of Chatin municipality. News was announced that on June 28th this year, so on Vidovdan, the president of the Municipality of Paracin Sasa Paunovic and the mayor of Sapca Nebojsa Zelenovic travelled to Istanbul for a session. In this regard, I ask the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government – from which funds is this trip, stay and possible accommodation in Istanbul financed? Of which or whose money was paid for Paunovic and Zelenovic to sue and muddle their country and citizens there, therefore, to determine whether it was paid by the citizens of Paracino or Sapca, or whether it was paid from the budget of local self-government of Paracino and Capca, or whether it was paid by some of their sponsors? Maybe some sponsors paid for their adventure. Maybe some tycoon paid for it. Maybe Dragan Gilas. Maybe the Wolf of Jeremiah. Citizens have the right to know who paid for this and have to get answers to these questions Second, my question – what will the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government do if it turns out they were travelling at the expense of the citizens of Paracina or Šapca i.e. if paid from the budget of local self-government? If this adventure turns out to be paid from the budget, it is necessary for both of them to presently resign to the functions they perform. So, clearly and loudly, they have to explain on what basis they were there and who paid for it. We have a picture from Istanbul. You know how – what a wise man is ashamed of, the other one is proud. In the picture are Zelenovic from Sapac, Sasa Paunovic from Paracino and a certain Alimpic for whom it has not been established on what basis it is there at all and what it represents. Why am I making all this possible? Because a precedent like this that has happened, that someone is filing some kind of crazy complaint and lawsuit, completely unfounded, against their own state and citizens, and that travels at the expense of these same citizens is totally unacceptable and, in the extreme sense, hypocritical. What provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government give them this right? What provisions of the statutes of the city or the statutes of the municipality do they perform this madness? In what way can they in any way lead these activities into the function of the president of the municipality or the exercise of mayoral office? Maybe someone ordered them to? Maybe one of their employers? There's a lot of candidates out there. We've got a picture from some event. There's this whole team, this whole sad gathering. There is Borko Stefanovic, there is Dragan Djilac, there is Vuk Jeremic, even that Janko Veselinović unhappy, there is Lutovac, there is Stamatović, Zelenović and Paunovic, of course. So let's see if any of their employers may have ordered one of these shameful assignments. Finally, a question of motive arises for all of this, that someone sues and muds their own country, that someone is making the worst possible accusations without any basis just because he feels that he is in danger of a function he performs, only because there is a possibility that he is no longer the president of the municipality. I ask the question – what's next? I expect it to follow a proposal to ban the elections in Paracina so Paunovic will remain president of the municipality for the rest of his life or to declare him president of the Paracino municipality for life, then perhaps he will be pleased. I end up in the next sentence. You've all extended 15 seconds. The people of Paracino, Capca and Chatine do not want to, nor will they be held hostage by the irresponsible pests that lead these three cities, or municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41883	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Gordana Komic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON HUMAN CELLS AND TKIVAS pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – the draft law on human cells and tissues, are invited to attend: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Đukić, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, Prof. Dr. Ferenc Vicko and Dr. Meho Mahmutović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Dragan Vujičić, Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, Director of Biomedicine Management, Dr. Jelena Janković, independent adviser at the Ministry of Health and Dr. Aleksandra Vlačić and Zlata Žizić, advisers at the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Of course, we'll wait for the minister to join us. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41884	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to the bill on human cells and tissues. The title of the law is also amended as follows: "The proposal for a law on human tissue and cell transplantation". As I come from Kosovo and Metohija, more specifically from the Kosovo seam, in whose surroundings today there is a very strong Serb community, and in relation to this law, I have to remind myself of another sad fact. Besides the famous "yellow house", there are also cases where human organs have been transplanted and trafficked and there is reasonable doubt that there were missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija among the victims. Because of such and similar things, we in the SRS are against the adoption of these laws because they are adopted by the EU order. The biggest problem with these laws is that they leave a great opportunity for various abuses. We have no objection to the provision of medical care to those who need it, but it must not go to the heart of someone else, especially without his knowledge and his consent. The state of our health is still unsatisfactory, where in some places patients cannot even be provided with the most essential medical services. Let's first solve the problems with the infinite waiting lists for checks on modern medical devices. It's unacceptable for our patients to die because they didn't make it their turn to examine them properly. Let's solve these problems first, and the rest will come in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41885	I thank my colleague Stevanović. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Marina Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41886	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia needs between two and three million donors. This was said on 14 February 2013 by Colonel Prof. Zoran Kovacevic, then head of the VMA nephrology. At that point, ten years after the launch of the donor programme, the donor card was signed by about 80,000 people, which is less than 1% of the population. We believe that even today is not a better situation, and this is primarily a clear indication of how much our people do not trust in health care. We are not uninformed, we are not lazy, nor burdened with delusions and waiting for someone else to solve our problem -- according to current head of the VMA Nephrology, Dr. Djoko Maksic, who is one of the initiators for the adoption of this law. On the contrary, we know perfectly how important Donorship is, but we also know what kind of state we live in, we know what our health situation is, and how ill the government is for the benefit of the people. We just don't trust anyone. And he knows it's the ruling structure. They know it won't help any media promotions. They didn't offer any relief to people who signed donor cards because they know it wouldn't change anything either. The only way to meet the EU directive on 40 donors per million people is to just pass this law by which every potential donor is. It is not disputed that donorship is necessary, that it is a human act, but it is unacceptable to turn an entire nation into a cell, tissue and organ bank by passing this law because it is primarily a personal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41887	Thank you. According to the amendment, the MP Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41888	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, State Secretary from the Ministry of Health, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, would disagree with a colleague who said this is an EU directive or a European Commission. I think this is a law that will help people who are waiting to see the Assembly vote, how the Assembly will plead according to this very important legal solution that saves people's lives, and in the plenary session I told and repeat and now, I speak as a doctor who is familiar with the many problems of the transplant programme, the colleague said that Serbian citizens who have little signed the donor cards have doubts about the health system. I don't think that's true, I think the citizens of Serbia are one of the most human citizens and peoples in Europe. This has been demonstrated through history by the Serbian people and in these years, the Serbian people have always shown a desire to help every citizen who has had a health problem, whether through the collection of money through humanitarian actions through social networks, whether through some appeal of public figures. I don't think that's the point. I don't think it's the same subject and it's supposed to be said that no one has conditioned this. As a doctor, I know that Eurotransplant is not an obligation to join the EU, Eurotransplant is a community of some regulated health systems of avant-garde nations aimed at protecting their population and who have agreed to build this one community to make it easier for their citizens, patients to get an organ and extend their lives. I have spoken, I repeat again that as a doctor, I absolutely support this initiative to adopt such a legal solution because our citizens will have a better chance of winning their disease and I repeat, there are currently 2,000 patients in Serbia who are fighting for life against severe diseases, which cannot be obtained by organ transplants. Two thousand of our citizens are watching this assembly and their families, as we will plead, but that number is not final. The question today, tomorrow, the weeks to come, the years to come, how many more of our fellow citizens, maybe one of our loved ones will become sick. The disease doesn't knock on the door of certain people, it can knock on anyone's door, and on the doors of members of the government and the opposition, and we have to treat the citizens equally. So we need to understand that this topic is very serious and that Serbia will not be any organ bank, but I will introduce you, as I am witnessing a few life struggles for the survival of some of our citizens. I actively participated in a change in the regulation of the Republic Fund to send and treat our citizens abroad, so a small citizen from Vojvodina had the chance to go first to the health insurance account of the Fund in Vienna for heart transplants. And then approved money and funds from Serbia's budget were not guaranteed that it would receive the authority at the moment. So no one was talking about her getting the heart of some Austrian little boy, no one mentioned it. No one said from Austria why we gave that Serbian girl a heart. I'm fighting delusions, stereotypes, and some things that are thinking in the 19th century. Here we are thinking about the lives of our patients and the desire for Serbia to equalise itself with highly developed countries such as Spain, Germany, Slovenia, Croatia, such as the Netherlands, Sweden, means such as countries that gave their citizens a chance to get an organ at the right time, i.e. to get a chance to live. I wanted to draw attention to this fact that the idea of joining Eutransplant is very good because our citizens will be evened out in a chance to get an organ to beat their disease. When you get one chance like that, I don't think there's any stronger law than the law that carries life. So here we are talking about the lives of our citizens and I think this is a good legal solution, as a doctor, I say I clearly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41889	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41890	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a cell and tissue law is just another law that the EU requires of us and represents the harmonisation of existing laws with the European law, without even taking into account how this will affect the citizens of Serbia. And this bill is as bad as the proposal for a law on human organs transplant based on assumed consent, to which Serbian citizens automatically become brought unless explicitly opposed throughout their lives. Both of these proposals can be a fertile ground of abuse and crime, and with full right, we can suspect, given the Minister's biography, that the assumed consent is not introduced for the purpose of treatment, but for the alleged trafficking of human organs. You said in your opening statement that abuses are not possible, because there are a large number of people involved, that it's one whole team and every time one of us mentions the assumed consent you're turning your head, you're reluctant, so we're wondering how and why you're asking for a written consent from the recipient, not an organ donor? Also another of the controversial provisions of this proposal is the taking of tissue from the deceased person and the minor, who was without parental ageing, where only the ethical board of health institutions is asked. You have here completely excluded a legal representative who, under the Family Law, every minor should have and who should also be in this situation to protect the interests of that minor. This also applies to persons who are completely or partially deprived of their business ability. You certainly had to take care of that, because these are exactly the kind of situations that may be major abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41891	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41892	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to support the amendment of a distinguished colleague who is clearly talking about what we too insisted in the principle part of this debate, which is that the minister remains our duty to answer the question – why did he not fully remain at the concept of volunteering? I have repeatedly asked that question, so I would ask the minister to answer that question again. So -- why did we enter this kind of legal obligation that practically the state becomes the owner of our bodies by adopting this law, and then we have to chase the state in case we don't possibly ask her to take us off that list? So, Mr. Minister, the matter is very serious, it's a matter of freedom of choice. No one here denies the importance of organ donor, but I pointed out and I repeat that this is a prime example of Christian service, compassion, love for neighbor, and we all support it. But, as in the case of vaccination, as I explained, you can't impose anything on people, you can't totally influence your personal life, you can't determine that someone has to be an organ donor, as if someone has to make sure they're vaccinated, and they don't know what vaccine they're injecting their children with, because there's no evidence that this vaccine is correct and there's no domestic vaccine, but it's an import vaccine, etc. The same is true of this matter, which is why I support this amendment. If you'd left the strings by which the organ's voluntary giving, where anyone who wants to be a donor volunteered, there's no problem, and we'd all support it. You're introducing a semi-repressive concept here by which we're already bound by this law by organ donors, and if we don't, we have to chase the state to get us off that list. Then you're still saying there's no register of those who don't want to be organ donors. Now tell me, in case someone dies, how do you do it? You're looking for a register to be an organ donor, so if it's not in the donor register, which means it's not, then what, you're chasing his family to ask if they're given or not in the case of such a grieving family and such an emergency? Do you realize what problems you're making and do you realize how much space you're leaving for abuse? I told you then and now I repeat, we are not little children and we know that there is a human organ trafficking on a planetary level. We also know that there is legal organ trafficking in Serbia, see ads where people offer their organs for sale. So, serious questions. So no one denies the volunteering of the organ, but you've abolished it, or you've complicated it. We now need to chase the state and say - we do not want to be organ donors. That doesn't make sense. It is logical that we have the freedom to choose and say – we want to be organ donors. What I have proposed to you through the amendments and in that debate, you must, on the other hand, give the donors some satisfaction. They must have a better health service, have to be respected in every other way in this society and state, have to be much more severe penalties for those who will eventually deal with human organs trading or break this law in any way. All of this I don't see that you've adopted in our amendments, or I can see that you simply skipped it, which tells me that you have no good will to consider the constructive proposals of the opposition and constructively to understand, in fact, the concerns of the citizens. I've already explained to you that, as Minister, as a responsible person, you must understand citizens' concerns. I said, in case of vaccination, people suspect the correctness of foreign vaccines, you have to understand. They suspect it. Why? There's no home-made vaccines. Why doesn't "Torlak" work? Who controls the side of the vaccine? What do they sell us through foreign vaccines, etc., etc.? It may be unrealistic suspicions, and they may be the most correct ones in the world, but you have to understand that suspicion as a minister, and not to send, to punish your parents, to prohibit children from enrolling in kindergartens and schools, not to give social aid to parents who have not vaccinated their children, etc. You have examples in Europe where it's not mandatory to vaccination. Look, you have examples in Europe where it's not necessarily donations, it's voluntary donations. Now, to you, when I give you an example from a Europe that doesn't suit you, then you are not Europeans, then you are not for the EU. Well, wait a minute, let's see if there's anything good in that Europe to apply that well, not constantly in Serbia to apply the worst in Europe. Here, if there's an example in Europe that it's not mandatory to vaccinate children, if there's an example that it's not necessarily organ donor, why don't we take that example, but take the worst example from Europe always? So here we are, 20 years from Europe and the so-called EU, and the nadaadic Brussels formations, constantly taking the worst and never the best examples. And that is where I ask you for an answer to this key question – why did you take our volunteering as an option for organ giving? So why did you introduce this semi-repressive state measure that we're all voluntary organ donors, if this law is passed, and then we should possibly chase the state and explain that we're not going to do it, then we're being inhuman or I don't know what we're doing. Why won't we, the ones who, say, won't? Because they suspect you, they suspect the state, they suspect the government, they suspect the trafficking of human organs. You don't want to question the theft of babies that have been here for decades, and we all know that babies have been stolen from maternity homes in Serbia, we all know that they've been trading with these babies. I asked you clearly - are human embryos, or the tissues of abortional children? You haven't even answered that question. So we doubt you, you must understand. This does not mean that we are now at war with you and killing each other, but that we are doubting you, this government, this government, the state's apparatus, the crime, the corruption, the abuses. Not because we just woke up this morning to suspect, but because we have evidence that it's been going on for decades in this country. For decades someone's been stealing babies from the maternity ward and we all know it. Did anyone answer? Has anyone been arrested? Did someone end up on a multi-year sentence? Well, of course not. Then you ask me what we suspect of Serbian health care. Well, because you're stealing babies from the maternity ward. You may not be stealing, but you haven't prosecuted and prosecuted whoever stole so far. Look, it's a serious thing, someone's lost a child. Someone stole a child and told him that the child had died, and the child had not died but had been resold in a country or abroad. Does this mean that now someone will trade with our authorities and resell them in the country and abroad? It's doubt, justifiable suspicion. You have to understand that. If you had left the organ voluntary, no one would object, everyone would have voted in favour and said: "Each honour, run a voluntary donation campaign, give privileges to voluntary organ donors." Nothing is disputed, but don't give us any repression. Repression - mandatory vaccination, repression - you must be organ donors, repression one, the other, the third, the fourth. So you have to understand the parents in Serbia. These are bioethical topics, not just medical topics. That's what I was trying to explain to you in the principle debate. So these are also bioethical topics important to religious people in Serbia. You told me, here I am asking you to deliver to me the opinion of the SPC you received. Here, read it here publicly so that we can hear exactly what the SPC has blessed that you can do, and maybe what it said you can't do. Give me that opinion of the SPC. I was quoting to you the opinion of the Russian Orthodox Church, which has the most serious social doctrine regarding bioethical subjects, and you heard what is allowed there, morally and Christian, and what is not allowed morally and Christianly, so I'm interested in what kind of support did you receive from the SPC, exactly what did you get support for? Don't say it to the church, she gave you blank support. There's no blank support. So there's support for a particular thing exactly. Please don't manipulate the church. This is a sensitive question. Religious people are very sensitive to bioethical subjects. You know about abortions, you know about euthanasia, you know about cloning, you know about a number of other things that are otherwise meant to be passed through the Prednaint of the Civil Code. So here we enter a systematic violation of family privacy and Christian morality and an increasing number of anti-family laws are being passed, where, of course, it's in the first place, you've already publicly said that you're going to pass, and the law on gender equality and the law on equal communities. So it's one broad spectrum of anti-family legislation that begins to be passed in this assembly, and on the other hand you're playing the fight against the white plague. He can't fight the white plague and anti-family legislation. That rules out each other. So if you want to fight the white plague, then you need family legislation, then you need to support family, birth, young married couples, families with more children. Our children have left this country because they simply don't trust this government anymore and they don't see the perspective and the future in their own state. Why can't they see? Like, they can't get a job if they're not a member of the SNS. That's it, people don't believe in the future in this country anymore. It is a tragedy, Mr. Minister, it is a tragedy that Serbs and Serbian citizens no longer believe in the purpose of living in their own country, such as, for example, working, farmers do not believe in the sense of farming in a country that is the most days for agriculture in God. So, you have to understand the suspicions of citizens, you can't come from the position of totalitarian imposing anything and punishing citizens who don't listen to you, and the obligation that we are now going to chase you to tell you that our organs are not state-owned but are mine, private. So, don't have my organs on you, 'cause I don't trust you. I speak on behalf of all those citizens who suspect this authority, who do not trust this government, who do not trust the general authorities, who have seen these authorities serve the West and Western interests, to put aside the interests of Serbian citizens and to take the interests of the West in the first place. You can't convince anyone that you haven't left room for human organ trafficking here. To convince us, give us voluntary giving, and there is no problem. Now, you've opened one of the Pandora's boxes, and we've given you a concrete example of where you've abolished the guardians' ability to decide on the donation of the organs of their deceased, let me say, the relatives to whom they were guardians. You refer to a member of the Family Law, where the guardian with the moment of death is no longer the guardian. And now you, or some ethical committee of some medical institution, are going to decide whether or not you can take that deceased person's organs. Do you understand where this is going? The state to decide whether to take human organs from someone I was a guardian, someone who was my neighbor, whether he was my father, whether he was my child, for specific reasons I had to be his guardian, by the act of death of that missing person, I'm no longer the guardian. What, you take custody and you take organs without question? Do you understand, Mr. Minister, what kind of a problem is that? That's a huge problem. It opens up a huge room for manipulation. It opens up a huge room for doubt. It was just a simple solution, to leave volunteering, and says the state – please welcome respected citizens, who want to be human, who wants to be a voluntary organ donor will have privileges and so will they. And, everything's fine. Leave the people free to choose whether to be donors or not to be donors, not to involve you here in our privacy, not to have our human organs become state authorities when you pass this law and that we have to chase you down and look for a press release that we will not give our own organs. Careful, sensitive. We can't play with that. Citizens' suspicions are huge in this country. I'm telling you, if in half a century you haven't questioned one case of stealing babies from the maternity ward, one who believes you, Mr. Minister. Who can believe this isn't happening? You even have a recommendation from the Council of Europe that you have to do it, for years there's been this recommendation, you haven't done it yet. When I see one doctor and another administrative staff involved in stealing and reselling babies, that he's finished on a multi-year sentence, then let me know if I believe anything you're telling me. Until then, don't ask me to trust your word, because you weren't ready for six years of your authority to arrest a criminal who stole babies from the maternity ward, to arrest a criminal clan leader who trafficked drugs and killed our children in Belgrade and Serbia. Now you're going to say it's the judge's fault, the prosecutor's guilty. Who's to blame for the drug dealers working here? Who's to blame for selling drugs to our kids? Who's gonna get in their way? When? Your Law on Psychoactive Substances? Well, never. So, you don't trust this people, you don't trust people, people suspect this government, they've been cheated many times, trust has been misused many times, it's worked in the interest of the West, not in Serbia's interest, and it's simply a question -- where's the end? And you've brought in an additional worm of doubt when you've abolished the practice of voluntary organ donation so far, and you've imposed an organ obligation on us, and that we have to chase the state and say it - we won't. It's the wrong concept, it's upside down, otherwise, a logical and meaningful goal of voluntary organ giving. So you have to understand parents in Serbia, you have to understand people who suspect you, who don't trust you, who don't trust this government, who are so many times deceived by all the authorities, not just by yours, that we understand each other. Here, the SPS marked 28 years of looting this nation yesterday, 28 years of using state resources, abuse... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41893	Comrade Obradovic, I ask you to honor the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of the MPs, and this time I will remain only on oral notice. I ask you no longer to use such a dictionary and vocabulary by addressing your colleagues because it is not correct, and in a serious way you are destroying the dignity of the National Assembly. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41894	We have an extremely serious question ahead of us, which is why I'm here, and a lot of people are watching us act here and what we're gonna do. There is one single goal here, to help people who need help. There's no reason to mix Europe or the world or anything, we're passing laws to make us feel better. For your information, so far many Serbian citizens have received an EU authority, and no citizen from Europe and the world has received any authorities from Serbia, you should know that. Next thing you know, you keep skipping one word, assumed consent. It's much more efficient, much better, they've shown many examples, as you said yourself, it's extremely simple not to repeat it again. Whoever doesn't want it is enough to write on plain paper – I'm the one and I don't want it. The second, from the first day the law comes into force, a list of those people who don't want to, is delivered to all the establishments that are doing the transplant, and it's simpler than it's ever been before. And that doesn't mean anything. If relatives come, they don't agree with it, it's not gonna happen. The more transparent he can't, the better he can't, the less anything for any abuse. You didn't hear abuse here. As for the embryo, it does not exist in Serbia. Please tell me, if there is one single example. Second thing, you're talking about babies that went missing 50, 60, 70 years ago. We've done a lot of things that can't be done right now. If it were possible to do so today, you would be the first to go out and say, "Here, in the past, I don't know, five, six years, a baby has been stolen." There was a suspicion, not that it was stolen, but there was a suspicion, but there's no doubt about it either. So I'm just telling you the facts. We're focused here on people, how to help people whose only salvation is to them and their families. We're talking about a minimum of two thousand people, their families, and they listen very carefully to how we treat each other, whether they can get help or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41895	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of SNS MP Darko Laketic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41896	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers, we in Serbia are facing a great fight aimed at drug trafficking, various lobbys, anti-vaccinal etc., people from the ministry know that too, and we who are in health. Unfortunately, today is the first time I've heard things that really shouldn't be in this noble home. Why do I say that? Because I consider this primarily by spreading false information and even by drug abuse or maybe the law was not even read or understood, and they did not ask for clarification. Why am I saying that again? Here informed consent is changed by assumed consent. Here is the outcome, if you haven't read, dear colleagues, the outcome is ultimately the same, which is – the nearest relative is asked. Therefore, without the consent of the relatives, there is no “takeover, ” or donation of those organs. In addition, we have one more than a legal path, which is – a man can, any full-time citizen of this country can sign, therefore, in writing, or give an oral statement that he does not want to in any future period or for the rest of his life that his organs are donated. So, if it's an act itself, the essence is the same for both informed and assumed consent, it's the closest relative at the end. So that's the essential thing. But there's obviously paranoia here, paranoia that anything that comes from any foreign country is not good. I'm thinking that the best solutions, that what gave the result, and the result is an increase in cadaveric transplants, is the result of a reduction in the number of patients waiting for organs, we have to respect that as a result. I'm talking about everything that's noble, which must be our common goal, not this -- this is coming from here. All the solutions they've given the results I will personally support always, unrelated to where they come from. I'm talking about legal solutions and suggestions. So once again, I think the bill is more than good. With the promotion of the transplant that is also necessary in the legal act, I think we will have the result if it is properly implemented and, of course, with sublegal acts that will further address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41897	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41898	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, with my colleagues, Obradovic, I respect the energy and desire to fight for my views, but I absolutely disagree with his views at today's session. I think a few things that I, as a doctor, have to say in the name of the profession. So, when it's said that we're going to become an organ bank and some ethical committees and committees there to decide to take an organ, these ethical committees are made up of top experts that our state of Serbia has, that's our greatest intelligence. If that mind doesn't know what to do with a patient, and these people have given their whole lives and dedicated themselves to fighting disease, to death and to saving human life. On behalf of my colleagues, I'm building on your statement and I'm saying that these ethical committees and committees are made up of professors and primarius who have been fighting for the health of our nation and our patients all their lives. A very serious decision is made today when a patient is in a coma as his treatment continues. When we talk in this house about these things, we send a message to the citizens, we send them some possibility of confusion and a message of fear. And in my last address, I showed that I had signed a donor card a long time ago, as a public figure. A large number of citizens know that I have signed that donor card and nothing happened to me. There should be no fear that someone will kill someone and that someone will step on a pedestrian crossing, as we can see in some tabloids to master or on some social networks. No, it's the spread of fear, which is bad, the spread of fear and the antivaccinal lobby, that vaccines are something that we as doctors give to patients to kill children. Hey, in the 21st century some, I really don't have a name for people like that, to let that happen. We turn one civilizational good into the 21st century as doctors and fight what's good and what's not good. When the profession tells you – this law was not written by the potter or I don't know any of them, this was written by the professor. Scepanovic, people who work together with the health ministry's lawyers. The idea is to help patients. I don't see so much fear and I understand the political struggle, but you have to understand that there is a struggle here for Serbian citizens who are suffering from severe illnesses, and they are currently 2,000. If he says that today, as we speak, as we argue, one of our loved ones has not received a fatal diagnosis with which, unless there is a possibility of a transplant, he won't be waiting for another six months or a year. Serbian citizens do not know how many people unknown, invisible, small, ordinary people who have suffered from some disease have lost their lives because an organ transplant could not occur at the moment. You do not know that Serbia was among the leading republics of the former Yugoslavia in the transplant programme, that in 73, we did the first transplant on Starar, that by the fall of Yugoslavia two former republics of Slovenia and Croatia changed legislation and have made significant progress because they had a larger number of donors. We have good doctors. I'm proud we have good doctors. When someone says – we have a poor health system, I say – we have excellent healthcare workers, good doctors and good nurses who work under difficult conditions. We share the responsibility of this people and this economic situation in this country. The health profession will never stop because it has small wages. We stopped during Milosevic, when my salary was two and a half marks. I went, I did a responsible job with my colleagues, and we never stopped working because it's our job to help sick people. This is an attempt to help people with a life problem, so it shouldn't be at all. When it's said there's an organ trade in Serbia, I haven't heard that there's any trade anywhere. There are appeals from desperate people, losers in transition, poor people who are on social networks, I've seen a few of them offer a kidney to pay their debts for electricity or some other stuff. So that citizens know it's punishable by the Criminal Code of any trade in human organs. It's inadmissible and it's impossible. Citizens need to know that. You see, right now, I'm trying to use this microphone exclusively in the interest of sick people. I'm acting like a doctor. Four calls are being called here as a doctor, not as an MP for the ruling Democratic Party when it was in power or the opposition Democratic Party, but as a representative of citizens who should say in parliament what it is professionally for, I am as a doctor, I think I am professional as a regular professor of the Medical Faculty to defend the attitudes of the profession. My colleague told me about drug abuse and the anti-vacation lobby. It's terrible that we allow some people who don't even have five grades of elementary school to address themselves through some media who say that you should treat tumors, how you should look at the sun, how you should starve, how you shouldn't trust doctors, how you shouldn't go into surgery and how you shouldn't believe in human medicine in the 21st century. That's terrible. So, don't listen to charlatans, don't use calls and treatment over Google, via the Internet, but for every symptom of the citizens of Serbia, go to the doctor freely, because as much as we talk, our health system and our profession is good. It shows that I'm taking a little turn on the subject, but both Germany and other countries, the obituaries accept our doctors who are shoulder to shoulder with world doctors and world health systems, so there's no dilemma. Once again, there's nothing more humane than organ donation. There's nothing more humane than to go on, to extend life. We have to change our Serbia's consciousness, because we're still in some parts, thinking like we're in the 19th or 18th century. There's nothing humane, anything worth it to anyone when he dies, when he drops his soul, when the body goes to the ground, that he doesn't achieve anything. If a child can continue, his heart starts beating in a small body and extends his life, there's nothing more humane. As a doctor, I make it clear that this is a good law and that we should all vote for this law. If we are also referring to the church's position, I respect our faith, Orthodox, respect and church, but also the church says that I may not have noticed that even one religious community is fighting organ transplants and Orthodox, both Catholic and Protestant, and Muslims support transplants. What we argue about is doctors and those on the other side is whether when brain death is established you can take an organ as long as your heart beats. It's something that's being led by controversy with the church, but as a doctor, I don't have a dilemma, I can't lead a controversy with anyone, I'm fighting for my patient's life, and a patient is important to me, if at that point I can help someone, I'm certainly giving priority to that fight for his life. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41899	You have no basis for replication. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41900	Thank you. I'm running out of time and I'm asking my colleagues to shut up a little bit. With all due respect, my colleague Milisavljevic and all his colleagues who spoke here, since I'm a big fan of the profession, so it's not at all questionable whether a voluntary organ donation should be, we should be here even more promoting us as MPs, which is that the number of donor cards is increasing, but in order to resolve some dilemmas, I have to ask some questions, which is above all the following. Should we mean Serbian citizens? So, we don't have to imply, it's understood that you live well, that everyone should have a minimum for a good life, so they don't. So we can't assume that someone's birth will be a donor and it won't be a donor unless they're declared biomedicine. So that's not supposed to happen. First of all, what's going on, my colleague here just said, "Near relatives will wonder." What if someone doesn't have any relatives, no closer, no further? Who decides in that case? So these are some things we can't really let go of. I want to hope that sublaws will be defined, but here, I have one proposal that might be good, and the proposal is next. Since the last census was made in 2011, so I have a proposal, however expensive and demanding, and the elections are expensive and demanding, so we have every few of them, you call them, to make a new census, to know how many people in Serbia actually have. It would also be a good basis for a good polling list and if that list made it loud and clear whether they wanted to give, donate their organs or not. I think that would be a very correct way for the citizens of Serbia, and that would mean that we do not mean them as goods, but that they really have the right to plead and the possibility to plead. To say that we are in the era of digitisation, that people are informed about it, in Serbia it is really on a long stick and it will not live in the right way for many years. So we're at the beginning of digitization not to be wrong, and that sad example of that non-digitalization we see here in the Assembly. So, we don't do things the way we're supposed to do things here. And, that someone in some more passive areas will be informed, leave his field, his works or get out of the factory, to go online to see what he needs to do in the center of biomedicine, and that he gives his statement, I think it's really completely inappropriate to expect, but that a serious list and a serious approach can bring the desired results and here's what I'm proposing to this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41901	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been approved by the SPS, MP Danica Bukvic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41902	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say once again that I absolutely support the law, especially, I point out, because I've been working with people who need organs for decades. I mean, as a nephrologist, who worked on hemodialysis in practice, I know how much human beings mean to transplant an organ. I repeat once again that about 800 people in Serbia are waiting, let's say for kidney transplants, that Serbia is at the beginning of the list of cadaverian donors for kidneys and that number is six per million people, while in our neighbouring republics it is as many as 40, let's say, in Croatia. Also, I say, it is significant, let's say, for kidney patients to be replaced by renal function by repeated haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis prolongs the lives of these patients, but their complete rehabilitation is achieved by kidney transplantation. They then fully return to life, normal work, and economic contributions to the state, and return, as I said, to reproductive life. On the other hand, there's a lot of talk here about these donor cards that we introduced years ago. It is known that there are 130,000 signed donor cards, but, in this case, as in the case provided for by this law, where there is an assumed consent, there is a possibility that a potential donor may disagree with the organ giving, or that even the one who signed the donor card may at the last minute decide not to do so, or some of his closest relatives can also orally or in writing make it impossible, so despite 130,000 signed cards, as I said, 30 thousand we literally have potential kidney donors, or organs. In any case, I think a landscape like this will help improve our country's health in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41903	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Bosko Obradovic has the word. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You have no basis for replication. According to the amendment, MP Djordje Vukadinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41904	Thank you. I am reporting for the amendment of my colleague, because we have a few of our amendments that are in a similar spirit, but to them, as usual, we will not get to them again, because, I stress, of the bad practice that is repeated, that the ruling coalition submits to the first members of the first law several hundred amendments, which is now being done by another parliamentary group, but anyway. Independently now from our legal, business upgrades, this is too important a subject and I think it's bad that this is how it's done, like it was bad, and when it was done the last time, when the War Memorial bill was proposed. I think citizens need to understand, and they understand, and so maybe they're following this debate more closely than others in this assembly, that it's a very important issue. I, and the minister knows it, agreed the day before yesterday that I didn't want to accuse anyone in advance, I don't want to doubt it, I believe in the well-meaning of those who wanted to introduce this. No one wants and it's very bad if there's a shadow left, not doubt, but here is an explicit half charge that now those who dispute this law, that they don't want to help people. So, as it is bad and as it is not fair that in the criticism of this law we are about to suggest or insinuate that someone wants to hunt us in the streets or citizens of Serbia and that it is not fair and it is not good to spread that kind of panic amongst the citizens of Serbia, but I would say that it is also wrong and it is not fair that those who are critical of this bill, who, in other words, do not want or feel that it is not good to accept, not the whole law, but this provision of assumed consent, where all of us citizens of Serbia, in advance, by birth, become donors of the organs, those who criticise it and disagree, to be stamped as someone who does not want to help those who are sick and whose organs are needed. So if we judge the first one, then come on, let's be fair and say it's not right either. So, let's not everyone who's here, and there's different, as there is, and that's good, I like it on one side, which is not uniformly and uniformly this and on this opposition side, some of them support this law and that provision, some of them are against, but I'm saying, don't leave doubt that those who object, and I belong to those who oppose, that now they don't want to help people who need help. There are serious doubts, both ethical and theological, that may arise in connection with this. But especially, apart from the philosophical and ethical debates now, they are interesting and they can set up this idea of assumed consent, there is reality and there is, behold, co-worker Pavlovic and others talked about it two days ago, there is the reality of our society, our information society, and not only, unfortunately, the informational literacy or illiteracy of the Serbian population, and ultimately the reality in which you simply, in a situation of death, confused people and relatives now seek and ask them whether they accept or agree that their deceased relative be treated in this way as a donor, organ donor. As for written consent, or written refusal of consent, it is quite clear that, as you know and you probably count on it when you propose this, very little, a few tens of thousands will be the most people who will go in writing and say that they do not want to be organ donors, which means that all the weight is likely to come down on relatives, on family members. Imagine now the situation, and how do you think we're solving, that, say, one parent of a deceased man, or one relative, one child will and the other won't? Then how would you resolve this dilemma in a particular case? So one close relative, equally close relative accepts and agrees to it, and the other doesn't agree? Not to mention these dilemmas when it comes to legal counsel. When it comes to legal deputies, also, who, at the moment of death, are no longer being led as MPs and are also not wondering. It is clear that the intention of this law is, and I will end it, to increase the number of donors. And that's the right intention, the right motive. What we dispute or what I dispute is how to do it and the result is trying to reach it. This is, I would say, problematic by God and by human laws. It's very suspicious and it's very disputable, and someone said that here, how in some constitutional court is that measure of voluntary, or assumed consent going to pass? You know, it's very awkward when we're born becoming donors, so we have to directly express ourselves to say that we don't want to be. I support it, and I said that two days ago to Mr. Secretary, every step of the way, if you need additional funds to be allocated to promote donorship. Here, there's over 100,000 of those donor cards. Once a wide action can increase that number. I also said that two days ago if we had a power that was so successful in convincing Serbian citizens to live better, that they should vote for the ruling party and for the president of that party in the elections, then let them be at least half as successful in convincing citizens that they should sign donor cards, to explain why and let half as much energy put into it, and it will not take this assumed consensus that potentially of all Serbian citizens makes donors and then have to say in writing that it will not be. It's difficult to implement, it's problematic, and I think it will cause confusion among citizens, and perhaps even some form of panic. I don't want to increase this panic and that anxiety in the citizens of this discussion, but we need to be very clear that this danger exists and that no one is interested, regardless of these short-term political points. I'm finishing up and I'm saying it's gonna take a lot of donors. We need wide-ranging actions that will encourage donorism, but this measure in today's Serbia at this time with so many numbers and functionally written, let alone informational illiterates, will only cause confusion and confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41905	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41906	First of all, we need to be clear, you're taking in too many of the dilemmas that exist. You said, there is a relative and now one says no, the other says yes. If everyone disagrees, if there is one "no" there is no consent and is not going to donation, so it is very clear. Secondly, I think it's a big problem that you haven't carefully read the law, and in the meantime you can go to the Orthodox Church site, where they've put their opinion on it. So there's one problem. First of all, don't get ready enough for what we're talking about, and then you're on your own, and the third thing comes to terms, and that's -- people, let's not do anything, anything could've been better, everything could've been like this, and what you're doing right now, and how? Well, what was better, that nothing was done or anything like that? So I think it's a big problem, so I'd ask you to read it just more carefully, there's no reason to bring in these dilemmas, it's all regulated so that the only goal is to help those people who need help. Why didn't you say before, why didn't you do some campaign yourself? Why didn't you arrange for someone to sign the donor cards, but now you remember everything later? I'm happy for that, but this is just the way we want to go. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41907	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41908	Mr. Minister, I will not continue in your spirit. I'm grateful for the first part of the answer, and that's what's important. You've just said, and it's known that everyone will hear it, that it's enough for any of the relatives to stand up, consent won't be, it's very important and it's relatively encouraging. A fundamental observation and a dilemma of mine and not only mine and some colleagues remain, that is, one indignity, as I would say, and the area of human rights, I am not speaking now, independently of theological reasons for and against, but it is very important that citizens know both the public and the media, no one, or at least I have not heard, is here not opposed, of course it is completely pointless now to discuss it as if we are some sect, therefore, transplant, donorship and so on, just asking the question of how to improve and increase the possibility of successful transplants, but I would say not to encroach on some basic human rights and not only abstract human rights, but as regards the physical psychophysical integrity of Serbian citizens? I think this measure when we turn into all the fences that you've brought here, along with some accusations, and I'd say unsuitable calls from the MPs, I'm counting, I'm really not someone who's used in such a dictionary. So, I just said well-intentionedly that I think it's necessary not to spread panic on either side or on the other side, nor that we're accusing you that you want to chase people out, to extract organs from people on the street, but neither are you accusing us of now wanting us not to help people who are sick. So, it's okay what you said, this addition that any disagreement of any relative will actually prevent it from being treated as an organ donor, but I still think you should consider, reconsider this measure of assumed consent that every newborn child and resident of the Serbian state makes a potential donor. I still think it'll cause panic and cause interference among people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41909	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Vesovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41910	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Ministry, I think that when we speak, and I keep saying that, about the profession, politics should be elsewhere. However, here, earlier, it seems to me that the minister slightly unnecessarily jumped out when he saw some face-to-face attitudes, but not attitudes because we disagree with the law, not because we believe that cell transplants, tissues, organs are not good, then the minister began to explain to us what we have on the SPC site, whether we read the law or didn't read the law, but I'm not angry. It boils with us Serbs very fast blood. So now I'm supposed to have blood boils if I'm told it's the same information and assumed consent. So if it's the same, what are we changing? But I understand what's one thing, I understand what's different, I understand the benefits of passing the law, and precisely because of that, the Serbian Movement of the Dvori has submitted only seven amendments to all these laws. Seven amendments with one single wish for the doubts that exist, whether there are doubts about us or whether there are people who have delegated us to be here, it doesn't matter now, but there are doubts. We were just trying to get you out of here. In what way? Where there was a possibility that I wouldn't be too rough, so I'm putting under double quotes of a store, we're there proposing double or triple the fines to avoid suspicion that this could happen. We did not encounter response, it is your right not to have negative motivation, but to have motivation positive in the sense that people approach this Christian, human and greatest part, to extend their lives by giving their organs to someone who needs to be above them, we suggested that these people have benefits not only in the health system, but also in other systems. We haven't come across an adequate response again. You'll agree that these aren't bad topics. When I asked the Health Committee why the Ethics Committee is, here I am now giving an answer to my DS colleagues, we do not question the quality of people sitting on ethical committees, nor did we think we were suspicious, but do you suspect that there is no corruption in Serbia? I don't doubt that either. So let's leave it alone, but we're throwing out a guardian here, someone who's 20 years old someone who's disabled, nursed, watched, lived, breathed with him and said, "It's Family Law, we deleted him." Well, it's not a good family law. Will we agree that that's not logical, not human is not human, whatever word you want I can ask for? And that's what we suggested, I got a notice, Article 146, I didn't know what the Family Law looked like, I have the right to don't know, I'm not a know-it-all, I'm a regular MP, I'm sitting in the office and I'm writing, the last item in that law, but now it's not just the law that's humanity and it's not our suspicion that we like to do this, but our suspicion is that this is out of the desire to be maximum good, that one cadaver saves or extends his life for four people. Normally, my colleague Bukvic was talking in the first part of the session about the financial costs of dialysis, what it brings us, and of course we all, we just had a clear intention that these doubts that could arise, that people might like it because of that, or that we didn't like it, that's what happened in the country of Serbia, you know? So now that I hear it, he says -- it didn't happen in Serbia; now let's go back to my initial indignation. So Kosovo is Serbia, was it happening there? We have probably read “The Heart of Johan, ” will someone explain to me that it is logical that Rockefeller was transplanted seven times? Just seven times, that's the heart, or something else in the middle. Now that's your suspicion. I am a health care worker, of course, of course I support this, of course, that we extend everyone's life if, unfortunately, someone's life is in a situation that can't last anymore, but the primary idea of the Serbian Movement of Dveri and mine has been in this sense and in this direction. So, it may not be too late, the minister has the right to consider that during the session when these agendas come, these amendments, we raise those fines. It all worked out for me two times. We're going to reduce the suspicion that there's a trade possibility here, and I'm not going to be a conspiracy theorist, and I'm going to end up with this to leave a little more time for something else, that in some situation where someone has to decide, someone can't show up and say, you know, decide this is how you're going to get it. It is stipulated in the law that doctors on the slightest suspicion that a member is holding it back, I've seen many positive things, and that's why I praise this law, but you can't take away my right to see what I see in it, that maybe in my opinion it would be better in one way or another not to criticise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41911	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41912	Absolutely, first I have to tell you that these were our proposals, but I thought someone explained it to you on the board. We can't, our proposal is to be a much bigger punishment, you can't because the legislation says we can't break something that already exists in a criminal and other law that when we're more than others. So the legal regulations don't allow us, we wanted to do the same thing. The other thing you were saying, it didn't make sense to us either, we couldn't do it, custody. It's a family law that's not under the Ministry of Health, which is what it says and so it brings. I've got it right here. You can look at it. So these are the things that stop us. We had the same suggestions for that, but legal, constitutional reasons, he can't. I thought someone explained it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41913	Sure, sure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41914	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answers. I got it from your colleagues today about Family Law. So we have to change the Family Law, because this is not good in this law. It's not our intelligence, I'm not the government. We need to change the Criminal Law not now because the two laws are bad, we're making a third that can be even better, and we're left with a bad one somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41915	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41916	Dear Chairman, two days ago I presented one piece of information, I will bring it out many times today for Serbian citizens to understand the importance of this bill and the very process of transplanting itself. On March 20th of this year, a 30-year-old died in KC Serbia, and I will not mention his name, and thanks to his donor card signed by him, four human lives were saved. One heart was transplanted, liver transplanted, and two kidneys were transplanted. Four human lives were saved. His body and his organs saved four human lives and four families. He kept living in them. There's nothing more humane, nothing better than when you extend your life. This is something we should not dispute when we say – so this law may not be good. Why isn't he good? Because we're going to open up the possibility that all 22,000 patients waiting for organs are much easier to come by. Because we will become a member of the Eurotransplant very easily. As a doctor, I know the benefits of all this. Because Serbian citizens, I repeat, do not know in the numerous actions that we have collected and through the Health Insurance Fund provided money for the treatment of our citizens abroad, most often in Vienna, the Algemajna Krankehaus clinic was once again second-class patients, although they had large amounts of money with them from 100 to 200 000 euros, which the state paid, could not get an organ at that time, because they had a difficult advantage for patients from Austria, Spain, from Scandinavian countries. With this connection, this programme and this community of developed peoples, human peoples, citizens of Serbia, patients who have a problem, will get a much easier organ. We need to understand here that the accession and harmonisation of legislation with these European countries is something that is good. As a doctor, I only repeat it many times, as a doctor I see this problem and this topic. This is something that will help patients who are waiting for organs. It's for free for us to argue here and call each other different, mostly to human rights. So what's stronger human rights than the right of a patient to survive? What's stronger than rights and the law of life? It's a priority to me as a doctor, and that's why I say it's a good thing we have the possibility of having a larger number of donors. A colleague from the SPS spoke nicely, two days ago, and now she mentioned, kidney transplants and the dialysis problem itself. That's a big problem. All of these patients may not be life-threatening right now, but their life and quality of life are affected by their having to appear for two to three days at dialysis centers. They can't go to sea, they can't go to winter, they can't visit their cousin whether they're in Alexinac or in Somboro, or somewhere where there's no dialysis center. This way, when you transplant a kidney, they get a whole new different life. Sam and the financial aspect of kidney transplant is about, I don't have an exact economic calculation right now, but between 12 and 15,000 euros, and the dialysis process itself moves up to 16 euros a year. We're saving economically, which I'm less interested in how much I care about the quality of these patients' lives. When I'm on the subject of kidney transplants, I want to mention one of our human citizens Marijana Milosavljevic, a NIN journalist, and to almost all the workers of the Anti-Corruption Agency, who in 2014 gave her kidney to her friend who couldn't get a kidney in Serbia, but the transplant was done in Istanbul. Serbian citizens are extremely human and Serbian citizens should only be explained nicely without any anxiety, without any sowing of fear that anyone will disrupt anything. So, here we as legislators, as MPs, are passing the law, but believe me, this law will be enforced by doctors, and don't tell me that one of the doctors wants to enter the operating room to damage the patient or God forbid they take his organ. It's something I'm going to defend in the Assembly -- the attitude of the profession and the humanity of our profession, because there's no humane profession, but the job of a doctor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41917	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41918	The basis for this, quite long already, debate, which is fine, of course, is the amendment of the SRS, which represented Ruzica Nikolic and which actually speaks of the obligation to respect the Constitution in the adoption of every law, including this law. The minister tried to explain to us that the amendment is fine, but that it could not be accepted because there are restrictions in Family Law, and then he also mentioned the Law of Infringements when it comes to criminal penalties. I assume you ministers are in the same government as Nela Kuburovic and Zoran Djordjevic. Is it possible that you didn't talk, that you didn't say -- you know, dear colleagues, this is a lot of sensitive matter, a lot of opportunities for corruption, for crime, we have to protect this in the best possible way? We are bothered by this provision of the Family Law, we are bothered by this provision of the Law of Infringements, let us see, let the legislation see that the amendments to those laws are made to make this one good. You will therefore very quickly have an amendment to this law and these previous two laws you have spoken of precisely because, although you deny, your legal basis for the adoption of each law are EU directives. As much as you deny it, but here, you just explained it. There have been some serious objections in this debate, but there have been objections that should not be appropriate to this bill, and we have heard some MPs talking about donors instead of donors. I guess they thought of Qatar and Donorship, but it's not the same, it's something else entirely. I also resent you and Milicevic and the minister. You were distracted by the minister, and the minister was talking about the MPs coming unprepared. He showed that he came as minister unprepared for the bill and the debate. It is not the argument of the Government's representative, the MPs, you are unprepared. It's not an argument and it can't be an argument. The argument is something the minister could convince us was right. You must indeed, the chairman, too, take care of such behaviour by ministers, but Minister Loncar certainly knows, when it comes to us from the SRS, that we are very ready when we talk about his ministry and about him personally, we are prepared not only in the Assembly, but also at conferences, in the media, etc. I guess he didn't mean us, but I'm just saying it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41919	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I think that, or I am convinced that the minister was not in general referring to all MPs, but to one segment of the presentation of the MP who spoke before him, and then he answered. The word has been sent by the people, Danica Bukvić, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41920	I would just like to say that certainly the aim of passing this law is to give all citizens on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia equal opportunity to live, i.e. equal opportunity to carry out tissue and organ transplants under the same conditions. Once again, I would say there was a principle of informed consent, which meant signing donor cards. Practice has shown that signing donor cards has not significantly contributed to increasing cadaveric donor numbers. For this reason, in this law, and in line with EU directives, because, as I said, in a large number of countries in the environment, in 11 countries in Europe, a similar way is applied to obtain consent to transplants from a cadaver donor. In this way, by giving the consent, as proposed by the new law, the procedure has been simplified and the possibility has been given again on the other hand that every citizen in the Republic of Serbia can, after that, by his oral or written statement or by any member of his near family, challenge the giving of organs from his deceased relative. So I think this way of giving consent contributes to the increase, the possibility of increasing the number of cadaveric donors.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41921	According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41922	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to point out that transplant medicine is the top of medical science and that transplants are handled by top experts, that this is an extremely complicated job involving 100 experts, top-notch, tenant from different fields, multidisciplinary team participates in this process, and every throwing doubt on these people, the possibility of corruption on their part is scandalous and unacceptable because all these people are in the service of maintaining health and life. I would like to say for those who are not medically trained enough to evaluate donors after death because young people also have malignant diseases or metastases, that brain death is confirmed by three commission members after three tests have been done and that, say, donors cannot be patients with diabetes, malignancies, psychiatric diseases, neurological diseases, drug addicts, severe kidney and heart patients, HIV positive persons, as well as those suffering from hepatitis B and C. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41923	Thank you. By amendment, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41924	Mr. Milicevic, I will use the time of my authorised representative. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given this debate today in particular, I must say something that happened on Monday when President Aleksandar Vukic was on a bilateral visit to French President McCron, where McCron made it clear to the Serbian president that 2025 is not the year in which Serbia will enter the EU, how the EU should reform itself first, work on itself, solve its problems and not plan any enlargement. With regard to the draft budget, which was the EU's Commissioner for the EU's budget from 2021 to 2027, Etinger said no single euro for enlargement is foreseen in the new draft budget. The Republic of Serbia needs to learn lessons from the latest presentation of Mr. McCron and what we hear from the European commissioners, and this can be therapeutic for our legislative process, that we no longer have draft laws whose goal is to bring our rights as harmonised as possible with EU law, but to look at the laws that Serbian citizens need, especially when the topic is as important as health care. So, not to explain the legislative proposals by opening a chapter, closing a chapter, helping me not know what or not knowing who, but only for the benefit of the Serbian citizens and taking care of it. In the next 100 or 200 years, Serbia will probably not join the EU. That is why I have to remind myself of a statement by Mr. Health Minister that, when it announced that Serbia was admitted to Eurotransplant, he said in a blatant manner that means that Serbia's health care will first enter the EU. So, Serbia, when it becomes an EU member 200 years from now, will be waiting for us Mr. Loncar and Serbian health care. There were some misunderstandings about our party's position on organ transplants. We're not against transplants, of course. No one normal, I don't think it can be against transplants, but assumed consent violates human rights and without assumed consent should be approached with caution, let alone with such a repressive measure. The question arises – who owns the human body? Is it possible that man doesn't own his own body? He needs to make a statement that he won't, so he can verify it, so he can pay for it, so until he gets his answer from the competent authority of the administration who's gonna keep that record, and what if they refuse someone who decides to take that step? Then what's going on? Are we going to have administrative procedures and administrative disputes about someone not wanting to give their authority to the state? The new legal solution is very nakarad. We've heard here from the ruling majority's representatives that it's not a problem in the assumed consent and that the existing legal solution and this new outcome is the same. If the outcome is the same, why are we changing the law? If the current law is good, it should simply work to raise the awareness of Serbian citizens for organ donation, not to take such an obligation and place it on the citizens. Then what's next? If people aren't the owners of their own organs, how can they own anything? If 126 MPs there decide it's not like that anymore? There is a big problem in Serbia about this topic because our health care has been really bad in the last 18 years. Our people have very little confidence in our health institutions, and how could we not if we had a situation where the health minister solves his health problems abroad without wanting to operate in Serbia? After some ordinary Serbian citizen who does not have the money to afford surgery in any foreign country can trust Serbian doctors, in Serbian surgeons if he sees the health minister not wanting to operate in a Serbian hospital? The topic is really sensitive, and we should take a look at what the expert public says in some other countries that have had a very broad discussion about the introduction of assumed consent. For example, Simon Bremhol, a liver transplant consultant at the “King Elizabeth” hospital in Nottingham, says – there is confidence in the part of the doctor’s profession that the introduction of assumed consent could harm the confidence of doctors who care for patients at the end of their lives and their families. How the family of a seriously ill man will have confidence in a doctor if he can have the suspicion that the doctor will not do his best to save or extend his life to a family member if he sees him as a cheap source of human organs, and not to talk about how much and what everything can be connected to crime when, for example,. We see that these organs can be sold and made somewhere in Western Europe, what immoral and corrupt people will do if they are left with that possibility. I'm saying, people in Serbian health, I don't generalize. Or, what if what happens, which is very possible, would not surprise me if we saw it as our export chance on this road to the EU? If we can get more taps on the shoulder and open the chapter, if we put our organs at the disposal of someone in Germany, or in the Netherlands, or in Belgium, or anywhere in Europe. I can't believe he's not thinking about it. And on the other hand, what is the biggest problem is to introduce such a repressive measure as the assumed consent and to get people to agree on it, it should be a really broad trust of the citizens of Serbia in efficiency, in humanity, in the professionality of health institutions so that people can believe that there really won't be such abuses. Is that the situation in Serbia? I think if we wanted to realize that Serbian citizens have confidence, that we should put a man of integrity, an expert in our profession who has a reputation as a successful expert, and not someone who has a reputation as a butcher and is followed by stories like they already do. I really think the problem is, maybe Mr. Loncar is the best doctor in the world...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41925	My colleague, I'm only asking that you address the Minister with your choice of words.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41926	I use very chosen words, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41927	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41928	Please, just let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41929	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41930	So, maybe Dr. Loncar is the best doctor in the world, but the fact is that there's a rumor that his nickname is "doctor of death". If I were him, I'd make an effort to prove that the sooner I could help from that rumor, if it wasn't true, to see how it got public in the first place if it was a lie. If someone accepts it like that, really, why not mention it. On the other hand, your former coalition partner, Velimir Ilic, who is no longer in the ruling coalition just because they had great appetites and wanted to settle somewhere in a company, whether these were the "roads" or "Coridori", delivered pictures of Mr. Loncar with members of the Zemun Clan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41931	Hey, buddy, let's just get back to it. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41932	Here, I'm talking about the subject. Milorad Mircic: Trust is at stake. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41933	Just get back to the law and the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41934	No, I'm really talking about the subject. So, I think you really need to explain it that way. Why would we have doubts if we didn't have to, if it wasn't true? Let's see what this is about. So, assumed consent is a matter of repression, disrespect for Serbian citizens, disrespect for human rights, and I appeal to the ruling majority MPs not to support this law because they are directly doing this to harm their own citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41935	By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I think today's debate of all MPs from the opposition, except for Mr Milisavljevic, shows that there is one obvious intention to criminalise everything in Serbia and question everything in Serbia. That's what the text published in today's "Nin" also says. And, don't be surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is just today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia saying these things about Alexander Vukic being a traitor, that he wants to sell KIM, that Minister Loncar is a butcher, that "doctor is death", that we are going to export human organs, etc. Today's "NIN", otherwise "NIN" comes out in Serbia, which is dictatorial, in which there is no freedom of the media, in which there is censorship, where journalists are arrested, and some are reportedly throwing bombs, want to be kidnapped and taken to Romania, etc., etc. Today's "Nin" says, among other things, - it's not a secret that Alexander Vukic, in his youth, was a fire fan of "Red Star", that he was hanging on a pole in the North, even if he was considered a tough guy, I guess that's how that sentiment toward the hooligans with the stands would know him. Only in those days, the leader of the "Star" fans was Arkan, who commanded everyone what and how to scream and more importantly, by which tone. In the meantime, in the last 30 years, a lot has changed. Arkan is no longer alive, the country that gave birth to the only Serbian club champion of Europe has disappeared, and Vucic became said – the leader of the fans, only replaced the pole with the presidential chair, according to today's "NIN". In a dictatorial state where Alexander Vukic, the great dictator does not allow journalists to write what they think they should write. He says -- maybe all this pathology that is blue public space in Serbia would be fun and not be so necrophilim and clearly reminds us who they are and how all those who have something against their starlets, political and others, against secret contracts and public money laundries, suspicious investors, digitization of septic caves, the best robbery of fake doctors of science, guitar fountains and literally the bursar economy. This malignant shallowness of the Vulcan hysteria is only the tip of a decade-long narrative in Serbia, as a great and powerful Balkan, Prussian, etc. It is then said to the President of the Republic that he is the leader of the fans and is constantly referred to in the text Alexander Vukic as not the President of the Republic, but as the leader of the fans. It says – it may be that the leader of the fans was reminded of the youth's dream about the border of Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica who would only have been realized, Luka Modric, the born Zadranin and the best player of the World Cup, purely on the geographical line, and God put me on the Serbian team, so Vukic, instead of the Croatian president, would be in a position to be in a wet T-shirt, that Putin without an umbrella, of course, once again agrees that Serbia's goal is military neutrality. It's a miracle how frustrating it can be for a cheerleader's leader when his team gets into a habit of losing. Why am I reading this? Because it is obvious that there is an atmosphere in Serbia that is not good in this country. So let me try to resume. The president of the Republic is the leader of fans, Milojko Pantic calls him the leader of state robbers. It's that former sports commentator. Our health minister is a butcher and a human organ dealer. Investments are suspicious. He lies about opening factories in Serbia. It's all a lie. He lies and about the level of foreign direct investment and domestic investment. Vukic lies that over 150,000 jobs have been opened in Serbia in the last two years. The law on human organ transplants is criminalized. Now we're supposed to be exporting human organs. There's something in the law that doesn't say in the law. I heard a few words – what if a man says he doesn't want his organs transplanted, and then some authority of the administration brings a solution, I'm sorry, there's no law on it. You're cheating on the public. It's enough for a man to give a verbal or written statement that he doesn't want his organs transplanted and that's the end of the matter. There's no administrative procedure, no administrative dispute. There is no doubt that man has declared his will not to have his organs transplanted. Today we hear again a monstrous accusation, believe me, when I hear that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you call the health minister a butcher and a human organ dealer. It's a monstrosity charge. I don't know if you're aware of your words. On the other hand, I can't help but get the impression of a high degree of hypocrisy. Zlatibor Lončar is today a butcher, a human organs dealer and a death doctor, but Dr. Zlatibor Lončar was good, and he was not a doctor of death, and he was not a merchant of human organs, when he proposed to your fellow MP, Milovan Bojić, to be the director of the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases of Dedina. Why didn't you say so? Well, I don't want a doctor to propose death to me by the director of the Institute, so I don't want that man to propose to me director of the Institute, trade to human organs, take pictures with the Zemun clan, etc. No, you have double standards, when your ability to be a director, he's a good health minister, he hasn't taken pictures of the earth, he hasn't traded with human organs, he hasn't been a doctor of death. Suddenly a man becomes a monster. So, man is a monster, trades human organs, butchers of people, offers the authorities of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to someone in the EU. So this is where we heard the most monstrous possible charges against Zlatibor Loncher. Of course, all of this is part of a general campaign run, not against the government in Serbia, which is legitimate in democratic systems, here is a campaign against the state of Serbia, and in all fields, in the political field, in the economic field, in the military security field, here, now and in the health field. I have to say one thing as a lawyer to those who don't know it, says - who owns the body of a dead person? The dead person doesn't own anything anymore. According to the Law of Inheritance, I quote the Law of Inheritance: “The inheritance is opened by man’s death, ” says the Law of Inheritance. So when a man dies, he no longer owns anything, so he doesn't own his organs either. And if he is opposed to having his organs transplanted to another man, he can give a verbal or written statement for life that he does not want to, and no administrative procedure is being conducted, and no administrative dispute is being conducted, nor is any governing body making any solution. What you're saying, it doesn't piss in the law, it's in the function of scaring citizens, it's in the role of criminalising Serbian health. To make things worse, you run a campaign, not against Zlatibor Loncar, you run a campaign against the minority, all the doctors in Serbia. They're all corrupt, they're gonna want to kill people on purpose, they're not gonna want to treat them well to trade their organs, etc. On the other hand, we hear every day stories about doctors leaving our country. How come these doctors are good for Germany, for Sweden, for Denmark, for Switzerland, and in Serbia, butchers, butchers, doctors are dead, killing people, not treating them properly? He says, "Citizens don't trust the health system"? Who measured that? (The Faith of Radeta: Who measured it?) ) Well, the criteria were in the elections, Mrs Radeta, and in 2012 and 2014 and 2016 and 2017, everything was checked. When you go on the campaign, you go on a campaign with a political programme, it's part of a political programme and what you're going to do in the field of health. The citizens said, among other things, that Zlatibor Loncar is doing his job well. The potter, among other things, as part of Alexander Vukic's team, received support from citizens in these elections. Convincing support. This is what I'm trying to say with no intention of meddling in on a medical subject, and I'm not being easy and I don't want to talk about things that I don't know. I have graduated from law school, but what we hear today in the National Assembly, and today and in previous days, reminds me of a well-organized atmosphere in which everything in Serbia should appear in the darkest possible light. There's now a campaign against doctors, there's a campaign against the health minister, there's some hotheads in opposition ranks running a campaign against factories. Today they tell us we don't need to transplant human organs, before they tell us we don't need to open factories, what we need jobs, what we need investments from Germany, what we need investments from Turkey. Let's fool Serbia, preserve it, put it in one big jar and make it the way it is today for the next 300 years. No, we want Serbia to change, to make Serbia better, to move Serbia forward. No one spoke, and this is also a big delusion, when did you hear from Alexander Vukic – Serbia will join the EU in 2025? He never said or said any of the ministers in the Serbian government, nor did he say any of the MPs, he said – we tend to join the EU because we seek this type of society, and whether it is up to us alone, this depends on the EU, it depends on the internal opportunities within the EU. The only one who bid with the EU entry date was Boris Tadic. In 2004, Boris Tadic told him, and that was one of his main bids in the pre-election campaign -- if I win, Serbia joins the EU in 2007. In the 2008 presidential election campaign, he argued that if he wins Serbia, he will join the EU in 2012. You have not heard from any SNS representatives that Serbia joins the EU in 2025. We seek to adapt our society in all areas of social life, including in the field of health, to standards that apply in the EU. This is what is much more important than formal EU membership. We want to internally improve things in Serbia, that our farmers, that our doctors, that our teachers enjoy those benefits, those privileges, those privileges, those standards that people and the EU have. When we enter the EU formally, so allow it, it is not only Serbia, it is the EU itself. All EU member states must ratify your EU accession treaty. So there is no dilemma that EU entry depends not only on Serbia, but it does not matter, it is not important years, it is important that we do everything we can to make Serbia a better place for life, to treat ourselves better and more effectively amongst other citizens. I have confidence in Serbian doctors, I have confidence in Serbian nurses, I have confidence in the Serbian health minister, and it would not occur to me that a man who is a health minister in the Republic of Serbia, I call him a doctor of death, to tell him that he traded with human organs only because Velimir Ilic said so. I mean, it's something that's extremely absurd and extremely pointless. To you, Mr. Minister, I want to say that I understand your position. It's not easy to listen to this amount, not just ignorance, not just ignorance of what's written in the bill, one, I don't know what to call it, but the pathological hatred that's being shown here to you. Here, we Members of the SNS will do everything to make it easier for you to stay in the National Assembly and fight for this bill, we will vote for this bill because we think it's good, because we think it's human and because we care about another human dimension, which is about the dimension of human rights of sick people. You're always talking about the human rights of a dead person. When a man dies, there are no more rights and no more obligations, but what about sick people who are alive and have a chance to heal? They have the chance to cure sick children, sick men, sick women, after all, that we are more in Serbia, to reduce the mortality rate. Let's talk about the human rights of sick people. I think the bill of law goes in favor of the human rights of sick persons. It'll be easier for a sick man to need someone's heart, someone's kidneys, someone's liver to get those vital organs if we adopt this bill, than if we don't adopt it. So we take care of the human rights of sick people, and human rights, unfortunately, the dead man has someone to look after. Those who believe in God know who takes care of the dead, but let's make sure we live, that we don't do God's work, God does his job, and we humans do our human work. It's the human work of a doctor, first of all, but so are the Members of the people to do everything possible to help a sick man and to enable him who is sick to be healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41937	Comrade Seselj, you wanted a replica. As an authorised representative of the SRS, I will allow you, but first I must give my word to the minister. Before we continue the debate, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you once again, bearing first and foremost in mind the importance and importance of the legislative proposals we are talking about today, I fully understand that every Parliament club has a legitimate right to express its political views, but I do ask you to continue today's debate in one democratic spirit and to address each other in mutual dialogue with respect and respect. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41938	First of all, I want the sincerest apologies to the citizens of Serbia, especially those who see this session with the hope that they will be better off, that we are thinking about them and that we will do something for them. I apologize to you one more time. The situation is what it is. I think anyone who talks is talking about themselves the most. I only suggest one thing, and that's that when each of us gets up in the morning he needs to look in the mirror, think about himself, who he is, what he's like, and then just talk about someone else. The next thing you know, people and you know, I'm not going to go into it, I'm not going to abuse, the essence of this story, it's over 10m euros that have arrived to return, someone's been lured by 10m euros. The bottom line of this story is that. But I'm in no hurry. We'll take it slow. Serbia has one big problem, which is that serious frauds who are not from Serbia are currently in positions in Serbia. Serbia must take care of it and deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41939	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Professor Milovan Bojic has been mentioned and I commend the government of the Republic of Serbia for being the director of the Cardiovascular Institute of Dedinja. The man is a world-renowned professor of cardiology. If you were to think about the well-being of Serbian citizens, you would have made him a minister. I'd like to say hello. On the other hand, whose human organs are they? Are human organs mobile property, so can someone sell them or buy them as they please? When a man dies, do they go to a desert debate, like the rest of the dead person's property? I don't get it. Mr. Minister, instead of answering me, you need to explain these solutions. You know, when I look at myself in the mirror in the morning, I see your picture in the corner with Dušan Spasojevic Šiptar, that's what's on my mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41941	Comrade Seselj, please, one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41942	That's what I do in the mirror. I know what I look like. So, I appeal to you, I support what you said, Milovan Bojic should be a health minister, you should suggest it. The SRS parliamentary group would vote yes. So don't pass these laws and disguise the criticism of the law by hating Wolf or anyone. No one hates anyone, I just think we have the interests of Serbian citizens first.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41943	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41944	The thing about the Minister of Health is very simple. You have to win the election, win the majority in the National Assembly, and then appoint the Minister of Health whoever you want. But I was talking about something else, I was talking about a kind of political hypocrisy, that Zlatibor Lončar is good when it comes to proposing Milovan Bojić as director of the institute. Then you don't see Dusan Spasojevic in the mirror, then you don't see Zlatibor Lončar as "doctor of death," but you see all this today when we discuss the details of these bill proposals. You were talking about some movable property, about whether something was the subject of a desert debate. Well, of course not. You just said: "Who is the owner of the organ of the dead man?" That's not the kind of question you ask. The man who died no longer owns anything, doesn't own anything, so he doesn't own his organs either. If a man dies, and before that he has made a statement that he does not want his organs transplanted to someone else, those organs will not be transplanted. But what I told you, don't put something in the bill that doesn't say in the law. If you think you're scaring Serbian citizens, don't think that Serbian citizens are just as ignorant and just as ignorant as they don't trust the country they live in. There's no administrative procedure, there's no solution, there's no administrative dispute, so there's no such thing as a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41945	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41946	Here, I'm done. So, the point is to make it easier for sick people who need to earn their health to transplant their organs, to make it easier for them, and those who do not want their organs transplanted can very simply prevent it from giving, the law is even more liberal than I think it should be, the law says – oral or written statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41947	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41948	I don't think we should put the debate on individuals. When the arguments for this law fail, it is an attack on Vukica, on Serbian health care, etc. It's not. So this is all about this law and the trust that the state requires of its citizens, as it says in the light of the legislation submitted by the Government, therefore, is required and the aim is to improve citizens' confidence in the health system, it says in the explanation. I didn't say Zlatibor Loncar is an organ dealer, nor that doctors in Serbia are bad, nor that everyone's goal is just to get their hands on the organs cheap to sell them on black, etc. I just left it, that's all. Reading this law leaves that possibility for something like this to happen. You should take care of it, not to associate any criticism here with irrational attacks on Alexander Vukic, and I don't know who, nor do I know why. I would like to see what Aleksandar Vukic will tell you when you say he never said that Serbia would be a member of the European Union in 2025. He said it more than a hundred times and everybody knows it. Now that it's nothing, it's probably gonna pretend or pretend none of you ever said it. I am not referring to Velimir Ilic because he is a credible source, but because, simply, when you let him down the water, and you should have done it much earlier, he started saying all this stuff, no one denied him, and that man was with you and Mr. Lonchar on the list of MPs. The citizens who chose you to sit here chose this Velimir Ilic as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41949	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41950	I'd like you to give me one of those 100 statements in which Aleksandar Vukic says Serbia will join the European Union in 2025? As far as I know, although I am a man in years, but I would say Velimir Ilic was not on the election list for MPs for the 2016 elections, which is this assembly of parliament. As for hate, I don't know whether you personally hate someone or say it because you were told it would be good to say it, but when you call the Minister of Health a man who is a doctor of death, when you say he's a human organ dealer, today you called him a butcher, I don't see what else this is about but hatred for one man. I don't know if there's any point in having sex with you that way? I'm trying to explain to the citizens of Serbia... Milorad Mircic throws. Well, thank you, Mr. Mircic, for throwing it away. I am trying to explain to Serbian citizens that this bill will absolutely have the support of all MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party. I absolutely believe that most Serbian citizens have great confidence in Serbian doctors and in the Serbian health system and I firmly believe that this bill will allow people who need a transplant to save their lives, that they will meet them and that we will have much, much less sick people in Serbia, especially people who will need someone else's organs to live normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41951	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is Tatjana Macura's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41952	Thank you, Chairman. For a while, I wondered if I should report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure or the amendment, and then I decided on this second one, for the simple reason I don't know where I'd prefer to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would like citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transmission, I just have to point out that I will use the time of the authorised representative, to remind myself that we are currently discussing the law on human cells and tissues and currently discussing the amendment to the title of this law. So, not only is there now a free-style debate, who wants to do what he wants to do and how he wants to do it, it seems to me that, since we're talking dominantly about organ donation, we couldn't degrade this subject any more than we've allowed this debate to run like this. Out of respect for people who have already made a written decision to donate their organs after death, out of respect for those who doubt, this debate should not have gone this way. If we express suspicion and fear here as MPs that this law in some way can be misused, then we must take great care of how we communicate. Citizens are watching and we are carrying a large dose of responsibility in how public awareness will be raised that we need to have as many voluntary organ donors as possible. I couldn't imagine in the wildest of dreams that a law like this would be misused to collect not cheap ones, these are the cheapest possible political points. Individuals are called to the profession as doctors, individuals are called to the profession as lawyers, and in that sense, I don't know who was worse. The honor of exceptions, they are, fortunately, in the Serbian Parliament, in a large number of people who understand what is being discussed and who are adequately discussing this issue, but it is a small number and they are terribly loud in order to degrade this topic in every way possible. When the debate was in principle, I appealed to the minister if he could influence that meaningless amendments were not submitted. So, not only do you influence, I understand the freedom of the Rules of Procedure, but when you look at how the amendments are submitted, what in these amendments is required and fundamentally that there are very few amendments that are really the way they should be and which can affect this law, that he comes out of this Assembly better and better, in the interests of our citizens, we have actually allowed to discuss today what is written in the NIN, whether and how the conversation with Emanuel Makron, who, I'm sure, has absolutely nothing to do with cells and tissues, then, to discuss who has achieved what success in the elections and what success will be achieved, and the topic is – human cells and tissues. Even if you turn away from this topic, law number two, which is on the agenda and which is probably not going to come to order in the assembly debate in particular, you are even the subject that will not come to debate with your behavior and performances to degrade. So, I ask you MPs, fellow Members, to take care of how you perform, the people look at you, the people look at us, and they expect one dose of seriousness from us, and the goal of raising everyone's awareness in public. Every spoken word here must affect, no matter what theory we represent, whether we are to assume consent or written consent, the goal is one, which is raising awareness in public to raise organ donor numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41953	Comrade Macura, first of all, before I give my word to a colleague who called to tell you that I really don't want to believe that you intend to prevent a democratic debate and the confrontation of opinions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, please, you have mentioned the word several times – meaningless amendments, I ask you not to do so, because it is also a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and an insult to the MPs. It is legitimate for every MP to submit an amendment to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As you know the procedure, the amendment will be held in the debate, whether it will be the topic of the current assembly session depends primarily on the committee. Since all the amendments were the subject of today's debate, therefore, all the suggestions you had could have been referred to in the session of the Committee. I, as chairman, can hardly predict what the MPs will talk about, and I am trying to make sure through suggestions and suggestions, not sanctioning, not punishing, I am reluctant to do so, you know very well, I am trying to enable Members of Parliament to have a broader aspect of the current topic at some point. Thank you. The word has a national message, Danica Bukvic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41954	I thank the chairman. I must say, first of all, I'm a little sorry that we got off the ground on this session, which is the adoption of these laws regarding the resolution of basic human rights, which is the right to life, because, as 2,000 people in this country have already been said, 800 kidney patients are waiting for organ transplants. In addition to renal patients whose life may be prolonged by dialysis, all these other patients may continue to live only if they have organ transplants. That's why any passing of laws and improving conditions with an increase in cadaveric donors is of great importance because it allows these people to live. On the other hand, we are neither the first nor the only country to pass a law stating the assumed consent, 11 countries of Europe have passed a similar law, and 11 countries of Europe have assumed consent. We expect that this will increase the number of cadaveric donors, i.e. that we will get closer to the number 10, which will be a condition for our country to become a member or Eurotransplant or another tissue transplant organisation, which will again allow faster availability of the necessary organs for people whose life is only possible if their organs are transplanted. I'm sure people who live day by day, waiting for organ transplants are eager to see us finish this debate and pass the law. It is clearly stated in the law that the donation of human organs is voluntary and without financial compensation, that the application of this treatment method, i.e. the transplantation of human organs is done only when it is medically justified, or where this is the most favourable treatment method, that the law requires respect for the principle of equal availability of human organs to any person who has been given an indication of the transplant without discrimination. Of course, our parliamentary group in voting day will support these proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41955	Thank you. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the SRS is said to be used to treat people when it comes to human cells and tissues. It's just an additional precision of this title. The Ministry does not accept that, arguing that the text of the law clearly defines everything. The essence of both this law and the second law is, in the end, the proposer stated, a return of trust. You know, there's one true anecdote about de Gaulle, President of France, when he was badly ill, he needed surgical intervention. French doctors suggested he do it with great certainty by doing it to American surgeons. He said--if it's for dying, if it's meant to die, I'll die by the French hand. In doing so, it is clear that he, as the first man in France, has confidence in the doctors of his country. We're here in a situation where even when we're discussing this law and in general about the trust that applies to medical personnel, we convince people that now this furniture that's in the government, they're different from the previous ones, and so in turn from convoking it. We had an example where a colleague from the SRS, Seselj, stated that the previous minister had sought medical intervention abroad. Well, imagine what kind of paradox it is, that the health minister is going to look for services abroad, and he's the first among all doctors. Now it's honoring us Serbian radicals, that we have a certain reserve. Of course we have a certain reserve. We have a reserve on the proposal of this law because in colonial states the rule is that human rights, human rights, are put in a different plan, and that health protection and protection of life are used, as a cover for all that can possibly be bad intentions and there is no blame for MPs who express their suspicions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41957	Thanks, buddy. Dusan Milisavljevic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41958	Several times during the day, we had the opportunity to hear that a former minister had been treated, operated in a foreign country, and I want to express my position, although I also expressed him in previous Parliament's councils, that it was a great shame and that he had therefore spit on the entire Serbian health system. It's a shame that happened and that doesn't reflect the true state of the health system. So that's what he says about that personality and he showed his true face, but that doesn't show the face of Serbia's health system where doctors do such intervention with the same success as his colleagues did where he was being treated. So, again, and in previous stimuli, I have mentioned it as a frantic example of a dereliction of the system that you are running, and he has practically really sent a very bad message, he has practically spit on Serbia's health system and that he needs to be respected because he has extremely good doctors and nurses. I wouldn't go any further in praising our system, but I wanted a colleague who said, yes, that's true and it's a great insult, but that's no reason why we don't believe in a profession that does very serious surgery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41959	Thank you, Dr. Milisavljevic. Milorad Mircic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41960	Thank you, colleague, for your help, but I don't know why you don't speak the full name and last name of that minister, it's the famous News... (Dusan Milisavljevic: It's not News, it's Tomica. ) Tomica Milosavljevic, Novice or Tomica now does not matter, it is important that the former is fortunate, but how can we interpret the next fact? We have an example that recently happened, that a doctor with VMA who was on a kidney transplant team, due to a situation of general health, because of his personal status, has defined himself as solving his existence for a number of other moral reasons, went to a private clinic to, as your colleagues say, cure the zits, and such a valuable and significant expert simply didn't deserve attention that anyone from the Ministry said – so let's see if we can solve that problem. How do we explain the situation when the liver transplant team literally falls apart day after day, neither do those who were carriers of these jobs, and liver transplants in Serbia are conducted by a team brought from Croatia. How do we explain that? How do we convince ordinary citizens? Come on, you can convince us, you can say – Tomica was bad. What would be the difference between the current one and his criticism? You see how sensitive he is when he's told he was close to the Earth Clan. Instead of proving in court that he's not and that he's suing, which he doesn't care about, he insults the MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41961	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41962	I'm sorry you have a short memory. In court, it's been settled a long time. The verdict I received was one, the other, paid for humanitarian purposes, so all of Serbia knows it. That's one thing. The other thing is, I wasn't playing chess and no one was filling my sleeping mattress with money.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41963	Thank you. The word is by the amendment Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41964	Mr. Lonchar, you should learn the basic rule of conduct of the executive authority in this house. We can be professional here and we don't have to, we can ask you something that's logical and not. You have no right, no basis to address the messengers in this way. Whether anyone has a memory or not, I don't remember that you denied what Bugsy, as a witness, said about your role, and I was able to look at those documents and that's the statement he repeated in court. He's an associate witness, and he only has to tell the truth otherwise he loses that status. Did anyone play chess? Yes, and he confessed to Vojislav Seselj in his statement. He made a statement to the deputy public prosecutor, and it's not secret, and you're just hiding everything about the Zemun clan like a snake's feet. You've won a dispute against Velimir Ilic. Try to show up in front of Bugsy and deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41965	Thank you. Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41966	Unfortunately, you're not well informed again. All the statements and all that was said, it was the court and the D.A.'s office that checked and concluded, and the conclusion was that there was no activity or any elements for any activity and that I would appear in court. So much for what you're talking about. I think you probably know that, but I assume you're saying that because it suits you. So the court and the prosecution made decisions that everyone knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41967	Thank you, Minister. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41968	You see how little it takes for the minister to get upset, even though he's been trying to ignore what the MPs of the SRS say all the time, and then, of course, he makes a big mistake when he mentions playing chess. It's about the Zemun clan, not the Lyubisha Chumet that Vojislav Seselj played chess with. You've made a mistake, of course, on purpose. We understand that the MPs here defend the minister and defend the government's proposals, but it seems to me that they are mostly talking about the Minister's proposals, as if the government doesn't exist. Don't try to tell the demagogue stories to the public that someone who is against this law and who makes concrete arguments explain why it is against you to say – here, you are against sick people, we protect the rights of a human patient. How do you protect the rights of sick people? The kind that shows you pictures of medical workers kicking people, falling off a man with a heart attack, falling off those carts, they're pushing him with their feet. Is that how you protect? Of course, we don't think all doctors in Serbia are bad. On the contrary, we believe that there are a large number of doctors who respect the Hippocratic oath, who are honorable, honest, who are professionally and securely doing their job. They're here, too. So we're not saying we're not good waist. It's a good profession. It's not a good power. You tried this law on the first day that, or you didn't try, but you managed to talk about the law without the public, or without direct transmission, but believe me, fear is sown among the citizens precisely because of this law and because of this assumed consent. Unfortunately, we are all witnesses to how many young people die in traffic, unfortunately. Can you imagine someone 20 years old going out there to say, "I don't give up my organs when I die." How can a 20-year-old man even think that? Of course not, but in life it happens and then of course you need this law to take advantage of such terrible things. There's a lot of media talk about how someone's been treated in one way or another and, of course, we don't take for granted everything that's been written in the papers and we understand that in a political struggle there are dirty things and that someone's using personal tragedies of some families, so he gets him to give a statement that the doctor didn't treat him well, that he didn't receive a family member who died, etc. We know that doctors are not all-powerful that everyone has to be cured, because that's how no one would ever die, but the thing is that the state doesn't work and that you gentlemen, gentlemen, do nothing out of power to, say, make such things that appear in the media end in one serious court epilogue, one serious skill. What's going on with the death of the late little Radenko? It's that doctor's fault, it's not his fault. He left Loznica, sent him back to Loznica. You're playing with the tragedies of human and human destiny and you're, then, whether or not you're humanists and you're passing some law to help sick people. You don't care about healthy people or sick people, and that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41969	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41970	Another contribution to why this bill should be supported. In case we don't talk hypothetically about other people, I die in a car accident, and I haven't given a verbal or written statement in my life that I'm opposed to giving my organs to another person, in Article 23 of attitude 1, it's good to write – at the moment of death, organ transplants can be prevented by explicitly opposing the parent, spouse, out-of-marriage partner or the adult child of the deceased. So, please, I hope you're well-intentioned. We can read this bill differently, but I hope you're well-intentioned and you have no desire to bring fear and panic among the citizens. If I die in a car accident, and it can happen, and I didn't say for life – I don't give my organs, otherwise I did sign a donor card a few years ago, but if I didn't sign it and I didn't say it for life – I don't give my organs, the transplant of my organs can be prevented by my parent, spouse, out-of-marriage partner or a full-time child saying, "I don't let the organs of my father, husband be transplanted, or whatever comes to him on a level of kinship or on a line of kinship and transplants won't be. So the situation cannot happen and the Ministry of Health predicted such a situation. If someone died in a car accident, he didn't make a statement for life, and now you're taking his organs by force, it can't happen. The bill says that I can stand up to the person I've just read. So don't, please, scare the people and don't, for the sake of individual cases of unconscious doctors, doctors who are prone to corruption to criminalize our entire health system. It's not like that. People trust our health system. People trust our doctors. People believe that these people who have completed medical schools in Serbia, who work as doctors, are doing this job in the best possible way in conditions that are objectively much harder than the conditions in the West, but people do their best in both the VMA and the clinical center, and in the homes of health, etc. After all, each of us has experience with doctors. I haven't met many corrupt doctors. I haven't met many unconscious doctors. Whenever I came to the VMA, whenever I came to the clinical center, unfortunately, I took both my father and my mother, and some friends, I saw that people did their best to help, kind nurses, kind doctors and people who were willing to stay and after work hours to help and to advise you, to comfort you, to be, in some way, psychological support, and now you've gotten out of this whole series of quality, successful and safe doctors a couple of people who embarrass that profession and said, "Here, look what this guy who was treating little Radenko wrong there, etc. I said he was treating her wrong? All right. I'm telling you that it can't happen that if I die in a car accident, someone takes my heart, kidneys, lungs, or liver because it can be opposed by my parent, my spouse, an out-of-marriage partner, or an adult child who died. That's what the bill says, and you didn't say that. You said if someone died and didn't make a statement about life, he goes straight to the table, butchers him, that's what this doctor does, death, and he's dealing with manipulation of his organs. That's not what the law says. The Serbian Progressive Party will always remind you of what the bill says, and what the bill does not say, and you wrote, so as not to put another stone around the door to Minister Loncar, whom you have referred to the most monstrous possible charges. (The Faith of Radeta: "We"? You. Yes, you, from your MP group. I'm in for an appointment... Don't get upset, Mrs. Radet. I'm nervous? I feel like you're getting upset. Don't get upset. I heard the term "meater" in public speech only in the song Mark Perković Thompson – "Jasenovac and Gradities old, it is the house of Max's butchers". You in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia compare the health minister with the butcher. That's what you did in the principle debate, and you're doing it now in detail. Believe me, I've never heard of a more monstrous accusation in my life. Zlatibor Loncar can be like this or like this, he can be a good minister or a bad minister, but if he were a butcher, it's not safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41971	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41972	We're not malicious, Mr. Martinovic certainly knows that. But what he's trying to reverse the game, well, that's malicious. None of us said, he was speaking specifically after my address, did I say something bad about a doctor? Did I not say that most doctors in Serbia are safe, that they respect Hippocrates' oath, that they are professional, that world experts are working under difficult circumstances, that medical professions can't work, that doctors can mostly be only those who truly want to, literally, which would be said in the people who were born to be a doctor. We're very aware of that, but we're talking about how you're not doing well with the system. I didn't say if someone was treating little Radenko wrong. I'm sorry every time you have to be because of that boy's family, you have to mention that or anyone else's name. I said you weren't interested in it, and that's why you haven't found anything like that in so many years. That's the problem. You say, Martinovic, don't God, that you die, if you didn't explicitly say that I couldn't take your organs from you that then it would decide, God forbid, your mother, wife, adult child, etc. That's the problem. You will bring into a situation of a mother who has been killed by a 20-year-old son, does she know first that she has the opportunity to plead, does she know that she has had the possibility of her son pleading whether or not he will be given the organs? Which is your problem just to return what you say nicely - I want, as Martinovic now boasted that he is a donor and anyone who wants to be a donor. We have nothing against it, and we have nothing against it, of course, that organs are given to people to whom it would save lives, etc. But this is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41973	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41974	Let the minister correct me if I'm wrong. I understand that the moment of death is a tragedy for every family, but I don't think anyone has any intention of taking organs from a dead man or a dead man by force. So, I guess someone's going to ask the family of the deceased -- are you in favour of having that organ transplanted from your deceased spouse, your father, or whatever the line of kin is? And if the father, mother, husband, child says – we are not in agreement, no transplants. So, I think the thing is quite clear here, and I don't think there's any need for us to be mystifying the organ transplant process right now. Serbia is still a civilized country, we are still a democratic country. I believe we're also a country where people are most normal. We're no butchers. Serbia is not a Nazi camp, so as soon as someone dies, we reach the corpse and butcher it and extract its organs. That's not gonna happen. My appeal to you and to all the MPs who speak on this subject, let us talk rationally about this bill, not with the intention of scaring the people so that we may eventually try to score some political point. That's what I was talking about. So they're going to wonder if you're willing to take an organ from a dead man if it's medically possible or not. If people say – we're not into it, the transplants won't be and that's what the bill says. So the point is quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41975	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word has a minister, Dr Zlatibor Loncar, and then Verica Radeta, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41976	I would just ask that we repeat it once more, to try to clarify and so far, when we saw here, they also showed donor cards, and when someone had a donor card and when it happened to come to brain death, even though he had a card, if his next of kin, the one that was closest, wasn't in agreement with it, and even though he had a card, it wasn't in the transplant procedure, and it's just now that he doesn't get into the transplant procedure even though you signed it and you didn't sign it, he can't, if there's no consent, if there's no consent when it comes to brain death, he doesn't get into the procedure without everyone's consent. I repeat, and if there's one of the closest relatives that isn't for it, it's not working, it's not going into the procedure. The next thing we know, it's highly incorrect, and I don't know what to call it, so someone can take someone's organs, that he's smart, and then he comes in and takes the organs. Because of the public and all of us, only in certain cases, which is when the patient is brain-dead and the heart works only then can be a candidate, be a donor and take organ transplants. You mention people died in a car accident, hit them, but they're not transplant candidates at all, they're donors. Please understand that. These people who die on foot crossing, they're absolutely not candidates. Don't scare people. Don't do that. It has nothing to do with the truth. A strict procedure exists that must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41977	Thank you, Minister. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41978	Neither is Mr. Martinovic, nor are you deliberately twisting what we're saying. Whoever said that if someone was hit at the walkway, no one would take his organs at the walkway. Of course he can be a candidate. What do you wonder, Minister? How can it not be? You got it. Who says he died? Hit by a pedestrian crossing, badly injured, taken to the hospital. In the meantime, there's brain death. How different brain death is. We are doctors, but don't make us know anything. We may not be civilized, as Martinovic says, I accept that, but this uncivilised is how much we fear, we fear possible corruption. That is why we have instructed examples that we have many unexplained examples of corruption in the field of health care. The problem is that it's obvious that such things are thrown under the carpet and that it creates a bad picture of doctors who are disgusted by such colleagues who are honorable and honest, who are much more than those who aren't, but if the system doesn't want to solve this problem, then the doubt remains and that doubt is one of the reasons why we think... According to the minister, when someone signed a donor card, no one took an organ, if one of the families opposes it, only now, they won't. How come he won't now if he doesn't have any consent? How is it possible that it is stronger not to say anything than to say anything – I am giving my organ? There's something really wrong with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41979	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41980	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the laws relating to organ transplants are very important for both medical science and profession. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the number of transplant centres should be increased both for organ transplants and for human cells and tissues. We see from the bill that you entrusted the heart transplant business with KCS, I want to inform you that there is another relevant health institution in Serbia. For subjective reasons, I'm not going to name her. From 1995 to 1999, it has the most complicated medical interventions, including heart and liver transplants. I purposely mentioned this term from 1995 to 1999 to return a little at the time in which these transplants were made. What's the most important thing about this thing? That transplanted patients still live their lives today, a new life with new organs. After 18 years of camping, the institution is being re-implemented with a transplant program, and now, suddenly, with this bill of law on the establishment, there is no word. I just can't believe you forgot and you're not aware of what's in your system, whose forehead you're headed for. Just to remind you, the other day, you advised my esteemed young colleague, Alexander Seselj, that he must read more, and I am informing you, or I suggest that you too be informed of those institutions where you are headed. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41981	Thank you, Professor. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when this law is passed, we have several issues that the public has to be aware of and is not right, because he is a doctor of law and should know that this law has and that the parliaments around the world discussed it when similar laws were passed, because he has not been defined until the end, and that he is characterized by the current Constitution, even against the express violation of human rights of this law. Look at Mr. Martinović, Article 23, 25. The constitution, where physical integrity is said to be incomparable for every citizen of Serbia. If you say and if it stands in the law that there should be, that is, an assumed consent being introduced, it means in the beginning that there is no agreement on who has yet to be declared. So it's legal until the end undefined. You said it yourself a moment ago, and then the relatives will ask themselves, and it is stated which they are, and you have read that member of the law. Then we come up with a hypothetical situation, and first of all you have to take, if you're a believer and a Christian and that ethical aspect, that all the things that a man lives and for his life specifically didn't say, who that person is, so that his birth is the most born and mother and father and wife and children, to decide on it? He didn't make it or he didn't know, or he didn't want to come forward about it. After all, this law is also a physical attack on man and psychologically you are now with this law and this provision, Mr. Loncar, putting a great deal of psychological pressure on people, so that people who would never think about it, except Martinovic, Vukic and those who didn't have a donor card, that they are even thinking about the potential for their organ to be donated. They are now forced to think about reporting to the Biomedicine Authority, where Col. Rose said no one's answering the phone is putting people in a position to think the way you want to think and yet to vote against the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41983	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the amendment bill, in the same text, the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic submitted. Here you go, colleague Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41984	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, representatives of the Biomedicine Administration, somehow I can't help thinking that the principle debate on these very important three laws in your field, the proposal for a law on cells and tissues, on human organ transplants and psychoactive substances literally takes a day. We just see now, when the amendments are being discussed, when the debate is going to be broadly and thematically changing, that it was necessary to discuss each of these laws individually here in the Assembly, because the topic and matter they are processing is very sensitive. Let me start with the first amendment that the DSS MPs submitted to the proposal for a bill on human tissues and cells. In fact, we propose that the title of this law be changed and that it be said – a bill on medical treatment with human cells and tissues. To agree with you, it certainly was necessary and that a law like this should actually be passed that would treat matter on human cells and tissues, that is, the tasks that this area covers, the conditions that need to be met, medical or medical institutions that will have to meet certain prescribed conditions and get permission to deal with it, certainly that we need to do so and bring it here. By following the law further, we see that in fact all the legal persons mentioned here are health institutions, so we have also suggested this amendment to say that it is medical treatment or medical treatment with human cells and tissues. What I am afraid of, as well as many MPs here, and therefore for a long time this debate is being held, is that we and these three draft laws with a very sensitive matter are first and foremost brought into line to bring this area into line with EU legislation and according to the European Directive. Simply, we are all afraid and afraid that in this way all of our databases on human cells, on tissues, on human organs will open so wide for use, when EU countries are concerned and we will put them under the cap in some way European legislation. When we discuss all this, first of all, the transplantation of human organs, cells and tissues, we should ask ourselves, of course, how many of us in Serbia today have health institutions and how many highly trained medical teams that will deal with this matter and when it comes to human cells and tissues and when it comes to human organs transplants and do we, in fact, open this law to the "market of human organs and tissues" and not only when it comes to Serbia, but also beyond, when it comes to the market of European countries, or rich EU countries? There are mostly transplants, and mostly their teams are coming to us. You saw today in this several-hour debate what is really the biggest problem here, and we rightly doubted this determination that we are all potential donors at birth now. The minister insists on explaining that it is not so, that after the death of a man there is one who wonders whether he will leave his organs and whether they will enter the donation process. What I have to underline here is that this principle of donorship, which I absolutely stand for, must be the principle of volunteering. Otherwise, where are those basic human rights we've been talking about here all along? Of course we don't have to deny it, and there's a lot of talk here, about the human organ market, about that gray human organ and human tissue zone. We can't deny that such a market exists, that abuses and machinations exist, so I guess that's why we're afraid with the right, because, however we turn around, it seems, by profitability, maybe after the arms trade, drug trafficking, maybe even the third most profitable branch, it's ugly to say, but maybe that's what you can say. If we look at this law on human cells and tissues only on the human side, which should absolutely have that tone and is important for potential recipients who have been waiting for years, we have heard how many lists we have, so that we continue to live qualityly or even save lives, certainly we need to support it and certainly we need to make it precise, legally regulated. I also agree with the broad actions of informing our population what it means to be a donor and what it means to be a recipient of human tissue or human organs. But we simply need to know that not only do we talk about how important and humane it is, but we need to inform them in due time that they don't have to be donors if they don't want to and the way they can do it in practice. I'm afraid that the vast population, so to speak, our less educated population, the population of some rural communities, will simply have no notice when and how it can relate to this matter and how it can say it – yes, I will be a donor, or – yes, I will not be a donor. Don't let that part of our population just become a prey for a rich clientele from rich European Union countries. Finally, gentlemen of the government and colleagues and fellow Members, we here in the Assembly at such a rapid pace agree our legislation with EU legislation as if we are just not a member of the EU. I am afraid, and we are witnessing that those main negotiations in Brussels are stuck on unacceptable conditions for Serbia, which is the recognition of the false state of Kosovo and Metohija, and I fear that we will stumble on that great rock and that we will never, ever, I hope, be a member of the European Union. Then all of our months of efforts in the Serbian Parliament will be in vain, because we have been just copying European laws for months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41985	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41986	Article 27, Mr. Marinkovic. So, first of all, you have to make sure that the agenda point is the bill on human tissues and cells, not the bill on human organs transplants. That's one thing. Secondly, I see that some cannot without mentioning Kosovo and Metohija, and those whose authorities, Kosovo and Metohija, or Albanians in KIM, declared themselves independent, were recognised by hundreds of states and they reacted by fleeing to Romania or by pretending it did not happen. To those who constantly impute Alexander Vukic and us from the SNS as we wish to betray KIM, give it to someone, sell it, etc., I remind you of what Hashim Thaci said yesterday, Albanians stuck in Brussels yesterday about the hard stance of Aleksandr Vukic, which would not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Hashim Thaci said yesterday, in front of the world yesterday -- the talks failed because Vukic did not give in to recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. That's what Hashim Thaci says, and every day you keep trying to accuse this man of allegedly wanting to betray Kosovo and Metohija. Listen to what Hashim Thaci is saying. Here, don't listen to us, listen to him. The talks, he says, are stuck, we've come to a blockade, we haven't achieved anything because Alexander Vukic is hard. When he heard we were looking for recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, the talks were over.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41987	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Gorica Gajic, on what basis do you want? (Gorica Gajic: Replica. You have no right to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for understanding. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41988	I would continue after my colleague Gorica's presentation, where she expressed her suspicion that we might be a potential organ bank for some more developed countries. Citizens need to know, I repeat it several times, they need to know that all our citizens who have had a months-long or multi-annual problem with some chronic disease that couldn't be cured differently than organ transplants, that mainly in these humanitarian actions and collected money or paid treatment from the Republic Fund, they were treated in Western European countries or America, where they received the organs of those countries, people from those countries. No one in these countries, most of all in Austria, where the largest number of these transplants worked, asked why someone's heart saved our little girl or specifically, I'm talking as a doctor, and I'm telling you from a number of situations where I was involved, where people invited me to help them with this legislative path of the Republic Fund, as well as the very communication with the hospital in Vienna. An example of my fellow citizen, who'd been suffering from cystic fibrosis for years, and where she practically couldn't breathe anymore. And through that example, I want to tell you that she's at the end, it's all been successfully solved, but it's been days for her to get that organ. She was given an organ just now in Vienna, just received from a citizen of Austria, from an Austrian who died and who practically extended her life. No one in Austria then asked why someone in Austria helped a life in Serbia. So I want to live in Serbia in the 21st century, where we get rid of some fears, taboos, some vanity, some things, instead of looking into the future, and the future is certainly improving medicine and improving our thinking that we should help every citizen. Through the example of our patients going, with great financial support or humanitarian actions or from the treatment of the fund, they are at this moment not equal to the citizens of Europe, because, specifically, through the case of this fellow citizen who had cystic fibrosis, she was on the waiting list and when a unique waiting list is being made, I want the citizens to know what we are trying to do, we seek something good, there is a list of waiting patients who are members of the Eurotransplant and then looked at at at the moment of the death of a citizen, whether it was in Germany, France, Spain, Austria or Slovenia, type, practically fencing, whether that body can be admitted to that patient. The advantage is practically citizens, i.e. patients from Eurotransplant. My fellow citizen waited for months, it was days, and at one point the happiness was that no one from Eurotransplant was on that list that she came in line. And she's saved. So, this bill, where we're going to be equal, our patients are going to be equal to the citizens, that is. patients of Eurotransplant countries, is something good, where we have the opportunity to have a larger base of potential donors, not just citizens of Serbia, but if we become, we will be in one alliance that guarantees life. I don't see that reason for any fear – now we're going to be a bank. In all examples of the treatment of our citizens abroad, our citizens received the authorities of the citizens of Austria, the citizens of Germany, the citizens of Spain, and no one, still from Serbia, has sent any authorities to any Western European country. I think it should be based on reciprocity and we should save some Austrian kid and there's nothing wrong with saving a Slovenian kid, I don't see a problem here. Through a number of my reports, and in the next period, I'll be talking positive examples. One example occurred in Nis on June 10, 2015, when the deceased patient saved, practically, she had not signed a donor card, but her family, realizing that she could save the lives of some of our fellow citizens, told our team at the Clinical Centre in Nis that she wanted to donate her mother's organs. In that case, four human lives were saved. Our clinic for transplants and our clinical center has informed the Biomedicine Administration, VMA, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, the blood sample is sent to Belgrade by helicopter and it is a great action where more than 200 doctors participated and where four lives of our citizens were saved. So nothing more beautiful and nothing more humane for anyone. As a doctor speaking, it means nothing better for a doctor when he can save a human life. Here we open up the possibility that citizens who are suffering from these chronic diseases, incurable diseases, where their organs can no longer function, whether the heart can't contrast, whether they're lungs, whether cystic fibrosis or some process where they can't expand, whether they can't vent, means that the only possibility of a transplant is. With great joy as a doctor, I approach this problem and I think this is a good thing for Serbia to go. This bill of law, I want you to know, has been proposed by colleagues, which is why I hereby and clearly defend it. So, people who do professions, people who are proven experts in their professions, people who have works in foreign magazines, people who hold lectures at foreign international conventions, at foreign universities, people who are here, in Serbia, who have not left Serbia, want to fight for Serbia to be Serbia in the 21st century. I therefore provide maximum support as a doctor, to further improve our health system, because the development of a health system is measured by the percentage of transplants performed and by the success of the transplants carried out. Serbia, I said in several exhibitions, as early as 1973, she performed the first kidney transplant in the former Yugoslavia, the first in the Star clinic. I don't see any reason why we don't believe it, not to believe it, I don't think anyone's expressing such a suspicion that they don't trust our doctors, because our healthcare professionals, our nurses and doctors, are actually making an effort, and in difficult economic times, no one ever thought to stop working. It's every single challenge where you can save someone's life and improve the quality of life in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41989	Thank you, Dr. Milisavlevich. National MP Sreto Peric submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41990	Mr. Minister, you and a certain number of fellow Members of the assembly majority find it unfounded that the MPs of the SRS have something personal against you. But I must say, your eyes are strange when the MPs of the SRS say, it could already point to certain problems that a man can have. Which is why, Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41991	I'm a colleague of Parish's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41992	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41993	It's not what, I'm asking you to behave yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41994	If you could just let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41995	I'd like to allow you, if you'd be politely exposed. It doesn't make sense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41996	I'm a very decent man's voice, but that's your opinion and you have the right to keep it. Mr. Minister, I have a specific question for you - why do you not trust the citizens of Serbia and ask them exactly the opposite? We know that human organ transplant is a very high medical achievement and that many people mean it and you are in vain trying to prove it, that is to say to the citizens of Serbia that we are against it. No, that's absolutely not true. What makes the assumed consent given instead of express consent? So you might as well encourage it, now it's a little awkward to talk about this subject, you might encourage some competition, encourage people that if he gave up his neighbor, if he wanted to be a donor, so would he. People in humanity want to compete, they want to help each other, and you remember that. The citizens of Serbia are quite private contractors, they're tired of notaries, you're now introducing an assumed consent to give tissue and cells, to give human organs. The difference between the SRS and everyone else is big and huge. A short while ago, counterpart Milisavljevic, I think, criticised your former health minister, who sought medical intervention abroad, but forgot that his political party, which he belonged to, was at the time supporting the minister. Then why didn't we answer? Serbian radicals whenever they have something to say that is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, they point out. Whether you change it or not, you always say you have a majority. So as long as that's the case, we can't stand up to you. But, Mr. Minister, the bill is not a good one and trust the citizens of Serbia a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41997	You've finished your discussion? Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm sorry, I'm just saying I'm resigning, so I'll give you my word. Dear Members of Parliament, you have received the resignation of MP Meh Omerovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the case under Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office, before the time to which it was elected, ended, to MP Meh Omerovic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41998	I have proposed to delete, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Article 1. Proposal for a law on human cells and tissues. That's, by the way, a law compatible with the Law on Human Organ Transplanting, and that's why you probably put it in one place, and that's why it has to be debated. When we discussed in principle that citizens do not trust and fear this law, one of the colleagues said that, among other things, the authorities do not trust the current because babies are being stolen in Serbia. The minister then said that since this government had not been able to steal anything and probably never happened, there has been no public problem. That's the problem. So again, you're trying to draw attention that we from the SRS have something against the doctor. No, we appreciate our doctors very much, we highly appreciate doctors' experts, we appreciate and respect honest doctors, but we don't believe in the system. The system's not working, the doctors are rolling. Ask your fellow doctors, most of them will tell you that the system is bad, and you said that until you came to certain functions, and nothing has changed. So, the system's bad, the doctors are good. When the minister said no baby theft had occurred since this government, I said, we agree. But the question is, why hasn't he solved a problem that's been going on for decades, and it's not hard to solve that problem. You know, if you got rid of, say, the problem of stealing babies, after everyone who tried to, well, then we'd say, well done, you set up the system, you should trust. But you didn't do it. It is a public secret that there is a retired doctor in Subotica who organized baby theft and baby sales throughout Serbia. Is it possible that the state, that the government, this present and previous, since that news came up, is it possible that it couldn't have been determined? How many are there? Are there millions of retired doctors in Subotic? Probably a finger can count how many there are. If you haven't heard by now, here you are now heard. The problem can be solved within a month, only to have first and foremost a conversation with all retired doctors from Subotica, that people, experts, criminologists, establish inspectors, get to who they suspect, who they can connect, etc. You solve that problem and then we'll tell you – you care about solving problems. I repeat again, because of the public, because of the doctor in Serbia, our dear doctors who work for both small money and who work in rather difficult conditions, all of your honors, continue and you should work, we trained you, or you trained to work in Serbia. We respect doctors, and Serbia's health system, as well as all that the government is doing, because you haven't given us proof of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u41999	Thank you. The MPs informed me there was no regular break today, and I'm setting a break now by 4:30 p.m. and then we'll proceed. Here, Ambassador Milorad Mircic thinks it's something against him, but it's not. Here, these next ones would react as well. I have to cut somewhere. You're the first in half-five. I'm sure you'll discuss it even better and more vigorously after a brief break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Mircic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42001	The Serbian Radical Party is seeking to clarify in this debate many of the dilemmas that exist, primarily with us MPs, and therefore to inform the public in the right way. All the SRS is saying is something that can potentially appear, as a possibility from the indetermination of certain legal provisions. When it comes to the Law on Cells and Tissues, you know it well from the Ministry, since it's your profession, that no small number of times have come, conditionally said to abuse. What's this about? There is one example, which you may know, but I quote to you, where the family after the death of their relatives, agreed to take cells, or tissue, for the sake of transplantation, or to continue to be used for humanitarian purposes. It happened, in truth, that the family, or family member who was authorized, specifically demanded that the deceased be kept in the eyes so that according to some of their customs, they could bury him with whatever their faith meant, or something else they belonged to. After all, to complete this example of life, it happened when a relative came to say goodbye on the stage of the deceased, they realized that even the eyes were removed, sewn up, couldn't even open. This is all in line with the legal possibilities, or gaps that appear in the law. The legislator himself says, i.e. the legislator, that underlaws will be all regulated, all precise and we expect these sublegal acts from all areas, areas of family responsibility, especially in these laws proposed by the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42002	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The National MP Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Vesna Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42003	Thank you, Your Honor, President-in-Office, Honored Ministers with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow People's MPs, I will use the time of the parliamentary group and support this amendment submitted by counterpart Mirjana Dragas. The amendment defines the subject matter and content of this law more precisely by preciseing the use of tissue and cells for medical purposes and more technically correcting the content of the provision. Namely, the transplant of human organs, tissues and cells for therapeutic purposes has been practiced for more than half a century since it started with a corneal transplant and has eventually evolved into an irreplaceable medical procedure, in order to save and extend human life. Regardless of all medical achievements, this special medical procedure is still followed by a number of controversial issues and dilemmas, which shows that it is not fully defined, legal and ethical norms and is considered to be a criterion for the development of a society. The ability to transplant organs of tissues and cells is a great achievement of modern medicine, but as with all great things should be cautious and find the best system solution. Transplanting is the only way to treat some patients and each of us or our loved ones can be in a situation before being a recipient rather than an organ donor of tissues or cells. The awareness of organ, tissue and cell donations in Serbia has been high for the past few years, but not high enough to overcome prejudice and doubt. In the public it is necessary to build an affirmative relationship with organ donation and transplantation because it is a contribution to the preservation of life and health. We doctors doubtless have a primary and inevitable moral and professional obligation, as well as to restore and maintain trust in the health system. The proposal for a law on human organ transplantation, as well as the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, is an indication of the social care of the Government and the Ministry of Health, i.e. competent for health, for the health of the population, as well as the provision of conditions and standards of quality and safety of human organs of tissues and transplant cells. This law, the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, now defines in a precise and clear way which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues. It has been defined precisely which health institutions can be banks of human cells and tissues, so that it can be a health institution or an organisational unit of a health care institution at the therapeutic level of health care from the plan of a network of health institutions brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which performs minimum jobs of processing, storage, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues, as well as import operations, exports of them. The goal is to ensure a high level of quality in this area that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to ensure the same level of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The formation of a bank of human cells and tissues increases safety from a microbiological point of view and from the point of view of control of the quality of cells and tissues. For example, many transplants were done as an emergency, requiring urgent pre-operative preparation of the patient. This resulted in a reduction in general patient safety due to increased risk of anaesthesia, patient general status and psychological preparation, especially in patients with high risk. A new method of tissue storage in the eye bank will allow for the tissue analyses performed from the point of view of the related, i.e. HLA-typeization which the tissue culture allows. The possibility of tissue selection from the point of view of the age of donors will also be created, which has not been possible so far because of the urgency of the procedure, short-term tissue storage and low availability of tissue for transplants. The direct consequence of the bank's formation is that it will reduce the waiting list, especially for corneal transplantation, which will reduce the cost of the Republic of Serbia's expenditure due to foreign care and assistance, given to the blind. Many will be restored to work capacity or a certain working ability and greatly improve the quality of life. The formation of a cord blood bank and the introduction of modern techniques for the processing of haematopoiesis stem cells would allow conditions for faster finding of suitable donors, since the transplantation of progenitor cells of haematopoiesis is a modern form of treatment of numerous acquired and innate diseases and for some of the only successful treatments. In this way, the number of abroad treatment visits would be reduced. Benefits of this law are also the definition of registers of progenitors of haematopiesies, including a republican human organ transplant programme, the introduction of a single information system in the field of human cells and tissues in all health institutions, as well as in the biomedicine administration, clear inspection supervision, the establishment of a quality system in this area. Finally, our patients have a safe and high quality and professional way of treating according to the most modern medical standards. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the SPS Women's Forum, which had a large number of stands throughout the cities of Vojvodina, and I would like to thank our friend Vesni Dragojerac, a member of the SPS Women's Forum and the selfless contribution of Prof. Dr. Dusan Scepanovic, who led these stands. I will quote Mrs. Wesna, who says: “It is a sin to bury something that can help others to survive. ” And, one of my small contributions and suggestion, you might consider that when a person becomes a adult and moves from the selected pediatrician to the selected general practitioner, it is therefore to inform each physician that each general practice can inform a patient, a future patient, about organ giving, and to inform us that we educate all doctors at the primary level when the patient comes to the first scheduled examination, to be well informed by the selected physician. Of course, we're here to educate them, to get a little closer to this law, and that's what I would advise so that maybe it wouldn't be a bad thing to do. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in the voting day for a set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42004	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42005	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues, where a more comprehensive definition of the subject-matter of this Law is proposed, that it is necessary in the introduction provision of the law to stress that medical and other necessary procedures, conditions and standards are in the field of use of human cells and tissues for medical purposes, i.e. the application of tissues and cells for treatment. This is a law that requires serious attention and I see that it has caused very good controversy, and I would just remind that this area of human cells and tissues, which has so far been governed by the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation, as well as by sublegal acts adopted under this law, has been applied as it is for years, but indeed there was one necessity to improve, to create more precise conditions of organisation and supervision of doing business in this area. They were not recognized either by donations, acquisitions, testing, processing, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues, which caused poor practice to carry out procedures in this area, but without defining at the republican level. Therefore, there is a need for this area to be regulated according to the highest standards of medical science and practice. Here, today we've heard several times that we all want to go to this XXI century, a team before this area of medicine that develops intensively and offers really great treatment opportunities, that health institutions doing these jobs are able to provide better conditions in line with modern achievements in this area. This bill in a precise and clear way defines which health institutions can deal with these, which can carry out jobs in this area of human cells and tissues, as well as who can be the bank of human tissues, including all the conditions that must be met by these. The law also introduces a register of stem cell donors, hematopiesis, which enables the finding of incompatible donors, provides transplant cells. Furthermore, it brings a programme for the transplantation of human organs of cells and tissues that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and will define clear procedures and clear procedures regarding the organisation of teams and, importantly, the financing of the entire tissue transplantation process. The role of the Biomedicine Administration as a responsible body, as well as the supervision of the implementation of this law, was then also specified. I would remind you, Minister, of one of our previous sessions, when you said that you would advocate that the state health care should gain its meaning in the Republic of Serbia, given that this topic covering our reference and successful institutions is only in some way encouraging this thinking of the staff. I think, despite the fact that there's been a lot of investment in health care institutions, renovations, equipment and so on, we have a problem with young people looking for jobs. So these are all areas that require a long range of years of training and learning at work and achieving certain goals. I think that in the future, as far as medicine is concerned and as far as these areas are concerned, more attention must be paid to the employment of young people, the education of these same people so that they can and can be trained for such demanding jobs, and we have opportunities to do so. We have excellent co-operation with EU countries, and now we are going to improve this legislation in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42006	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marijana Maras. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Danica Bukvic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Dr. Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42007	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(1). The draft laws on human cells and tissues, and the amendment proposes a more comprehensive and precise definition that includes the subject of the law, which should contribute to better enforceability of this law, but I would like to point out once again the importance of the formation of a bank of human cells and tissues, and especially the banks of the umbilical cells and the introduction of modern techniques of stem cell processing, haematoposis, which will certainly ensure conditions for the faster finding of appropriate donors, and especially given that the transplantation of stem cells is a significant modern method of treating numerous and innate, but also acquired diseases, and for some of the patients, as we know, it is the only method of treatment, i.e. the only successful therapy. Also, a clear definition of the register of progenitors of haematopoiesis will make it easier to find non-similar donors. I would especially like to emphasise the need to promote donations and not just cadavers, but also a living donor. This is particularly important in bone marrow transplantation, which is essential for the treatment of primarily young people who suffer from acute forms of leukemia and whose bone marrow transplant is the only medicine. This will increase the number of living bone marrow donors, i.e. the possibility of finding incompatible donors for these young people who will actually enable them to live. As our director of the Biomedicine Administration on our board has stated, we certainly strive to make volunteer bone marrow donations similar to voluntary blood donation in our country, because this way we will help many of these young people to whom this is the only cure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42008	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zvonimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42009	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues, I have submitted the amendment: "Article 1(1) changes and says: "This law lays down conditions for the application of human cells and tissues in humans, for the purpose of treating, achieving quality and safety, as well as standards for the work of medical institutions in this area, the supervision of the implementation of this law, the conduct of certain tasks of the state administration and other issues of importance for the implementation of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues." “ The amendment proposes a more precise definition of the subject matter of this law, citing the fact that human tissues and cells are used for treatment. This bill regulates the conditions for the achievement of quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human use, the supervision of the implementation of this law and the performance of certain tasks of state administration in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of human cell and tissue activities, as well as for human cells and tissues in the field of donation, acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues in humans by a living donor or dead person. The bill also prescribes a simplified procedure for issuing authorisations to health institutions for carrying out human cell and tissue operations, as well as for the establishment of a single information system in the area mentioned, in order to establish the maintenance of a traceability system. One of the papers of the bill's proposal is the simplification of the process of granting consent to human tissues, avoiding unnecessary financial costs of keeping a register, i.e. by introducing a ban on giving the bill, provided that every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia is able to prohibit in writing or oral form the donation of their tissues, as well as the possibility of family members to do so at the time of death, if the deceased person has not declared himself to life in this regard, while in view of minor citizens, the necessary informed consent of legal advocates or guardians is foreseen. In addition to the above, the need for certain professional terms to be defined differently and more professionally, in order to fully harmonise domestic law in this area with EU law, as recommended by the EU. The adoption of the bill provides for the promotion of giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as the organisation of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, which, in all stages, respecting the principles of traceability, will ultimately improve the quality of health care provided, in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, that is, with EU regulations in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42010	The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42011	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, which is said to be behind the words: "conditions for achieving quality", adds the words "highest level", so that practically 1st member of this law, by adopting this amendment, would say that these laws regulate the conditions for achieving the quality and highest level of safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human application, etc., etc. I made this particular proposal for two reasons. First, because the legal proposal, already as it is made, really creates one basis for a maximum security that the law can provide when it comes to preventing any possible abuse we have been hearing about for days and hours when this legal text is concerned. That's one reason. The second reason is that such a provision in this first article, although I have no doubt further conduct, would be binding in the adoption of and sublegal acts that must follow this law and ultimately provide absolute security and prevent any possible abuse. Absolute security does not exist anywhere, but I believe that this law is done maximumly in the interests of Serbian citizens and in such a way that it simply does not open any serious space for any manipulation in the application of the law itself. Among other things, there's been a lot of controversy today and about presumed consent, or donor cards. I have to say that I support the proposal on supposed consent, because if we don't go into too deep a theological position here, I'm not someone who's an expert in that area, but if the Serbian Orthodox Church has come forward and given its position on these specifics in this law, then it's more than enough for me. I don't know if anyone's based their theological views on the attitudes of the Vlach of magic or the attitudes of some sects, but it shouldn't be relevant in any way to decide and act when voting on this law. What we must do is be extremely open to ourselves and to the citizens of Serbia. There's one thing to say. With your assumed consent, you have created an opportunity, and by voting this law together we will create the possibility that none of those people, and in Serbia we really believe that the greatest number of human beings, well-intentioned, want to help other people, do not want to deny the possibility that after they die, they will extend life and help to survive, that we simply do not harass them in any way that they must now go to apply, to receive donor cards, etc., etc. Those other people who don't want it for any reason have a very simple methodology not to. So we have to consider something else, which is the mentality of our people, so let me say from myself. I, unfortunately, for my health reasons, have hardly been able to be an organ donor because of the sugar problem, etc., but, you know, even with me who's not exactly superstitious, I'm not even theologically specifically raised, there's a little superstition, you know, when you come in there and you sign the consent in advance to donate to someone's organs, etc. That's one thing. I absolutely wish that one day I could help someone in such a way, to extend and make his life easier. Unfortunately, it probably won't be an opportunity, but we just have to have our mentality a little bit in mind when we're passing laws. I think you've packed this very well, this legal text. So, those who absolutely don't want to have a specific, they will clearly define themselves in a very simple way, simply with a statement of will that they don't want to. You know, that's the problem with family too. You've probably seen a lot more of these dilemmas in practice. No one expects anyone to die, especially someone close to him, and then I believe that many have wondered what the deceased thinks about it? What would the deceased say if he were alive, whether his organs as his close relative should I sign to be taken from his body, given to someone else or not? I think there's a serious psychological barrier to each of our citizens. This, with one clear campaign, will very clearly define the position of each of Serbia's citizens both towards themselves and towards the nearest ones, who, even in the event of consent, express consent have the opportunity to prevent the donation of the organs of their loved ones. I think it will certainly make it easier for them to think in moments that are not beautiful, which are not good, which are difficult for them to make such decisions, simply to be aware of what is he, whose body is no longer alive, they decide and what would be his, not to say, one of the last wills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42012	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Zika Gojkovic has a word, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42013	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary with Associates, I support the amendment of a colleague who spoke earlier, and I would just like to add that today one of my colleagues here has asked for a longer discussion, I suppose for good reasons, as far as these topics are concerned today, because they are very important topics. However, I must say that we do not need a longer debate today, we do not need a senseless qualification of people like a doctor of death today, because anyone who in this way accuses a man of trying to put himself in that position and to think about what it's like when his children, families look at it, on the basis of such qualifications that are the least miserable when it comes to this home from which we should send this information. I don't think any ministers, and especially the health minister doesn't deserve that. So I would like to propose something that I have not had the opportunity to propose in the amendments, which is that for the first time we show unity in this house and that all together, MPs donate the organs. I think it would be a beautiful picture that we would send, not only among our citizens, but still, as well as to show that we are truly worthy representatives of this house and that at least by these things we can't, we won't share and that we have the opportunity to be all together. As a father of two, I never had a dilemma about organ donation. Also, I don't have any right now, and that's why I invite you all together, colleagues, to show unity and to throw out all the ugly and difficult things we've heard today, and to do one good deed and to donate our organs together and show once again that we are worthy representatives of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42014	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. The Belief of Radet, on what grounds? By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42015	Replica. I recognized myself in this, but really.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42016	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42017	Then why are you asking me on what grounds when you know it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42018	I'm right, don't mind me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42019	Then tell me I can't get a replica, but okay. So should MPs have a single opinion on a bill or not? Of course not. Of course, representatives of the opposition would not be opposition if they had the same opinion as the authorities. Generally, we have nothing against transplants, and that's unity, that's the same opinion. We don't mind every human gesture of our health, but now to make an impression on the king or I don't know who, I mean. The NJKV, the King, we don't have the impression that he's the smartest, and then, well, we all have to think the same thing. As for the fact that, at least when we talk about this bill, to be worthy representatives of the people, a worthy representative of the people is the one who is on a certain list, and then the people in a certain percentage vote for that list, and then he on that list is the MP of the people. Anyone who has the trust of the people has played, anyone who steals a mandate, anyone who forms a party in the middle of a mandate, and on another list he was, is an unworthy representative of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42020	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has been made by MP Zika Gojkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42021	No, according to the amendment, it's an opportunity for a replica, Mr. Chairman, because this is really more than a good opportunity for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42022	You have to pick up the amendment, she didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42023	Please don't, do you have an opportunity by amendment to speak, but it was more than obvious that the word...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42024	She didn't mention you, she didn't mention the political party you belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42025	Here, then I'll get the amendment. One positive idea, where I didn't characterize anyone in a negative sense, and I didn't want to start such a discussion on that subject, of course, that she came across a bad response from those who see something negative in everything and who in all things see the conspiracy theory, so to speak, and in this honorable proposal, not only my own, but all the other colleagues who had an honest intention to talk about it. I have no intention of representing myself as someone who isn't, because what I did is what I said, and I also don't want to influence anyone else who doesn't want to show by example that he's worthy and in any other sense that he represents citizens in this. I don't have a problem with that man just doing what he thinks he should do, because in the end we all represent, not just our own parties, but our families. Thanks for the opportunity to talk. Let me just say that we have a king and the king is alive and well and the kingdom will be Serbia someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42026	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering very sensitive laws, where two things should be determined. The first thing is the humanism of a doctor and the humanism of a medical staff that no one questions. The other thing is the ethics of all that is predicted by this law. Given the development of science, technology, first of all, electronics, information technologies, we can assume that one of the next steps will be that man, in a literal sense, will step with the machine. A man and a machine will make one creature and a man will become a cyborg. one combination of biological and mechanical origin robots. In this way, a man will slowly be as a person, as a creature we know disappears. Even Salvador Dali, a well - known painter, could not predict such things in his paintings, as the reality shows and as it will come to pass. I can assure you, by this law, his adoption has just set off this sort of thing. Whether our doctors understand or not, regardless of their humanism, I must say that this follows and that this is how God's will is violated, which is the matter to be discussed and therefore the ethics of these laws, and here the minister and no one from the government is talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42028	The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Daniela Stojadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42029	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to support this amendment by my fellow Raconian. We really intended for all of us, these amendments to the SPS, to sort of frame and provide one guarantee of quality and safety in this very sensitive health area, such as human cells and tissues and their use in preventing and treating various diseases. It may not be mentioned enough, but at this time I would like to highlight one significant newspaper in this law, which is the introduction of a unique information system for making up and keeping a republican waiting list for tissue recipients and it is important to unify the codes and identification system of the donor and the recipient of human cells and tissues in order to allow monitoring from the donor to the recipient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42030	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42031	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article of the bill regulates the conditions for achieving quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human application. The amendment we have submitted concerns the application of cells and tissues to ensure the protection of human health. This formulation, i.e. the amendment solution, we tried to specify this legal text, because the conditions under which jobs in this area could have been carried out were poorly defined, which reflected long-term bad practice, to carry out procedures in health institutions in this area. That is why we believe that you should have also accepted this amendment and do not let this law continue long-standing bad practice when it applies. Also, precision and one of our concerns is when it comes to inspection and conditions regarding professional training and professional training of inspectors. We also asked here to be better precise when it comes to specialization, so no area indicated. The destruction of human cells and tissues states: “After certain treatment procedures have been performed, the remaining human cells and tissues can be destroyed. ” The term “can” does not explicitly state what are the reasons why we are led to the process of destruction to complete it, as well as those that do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42032	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor. I'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42033	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, speaking in a previous report on a facility that successfully performs heart transplants, I will tell you that the name of that institution and the health institution is written in the history of European and world transplantology. The biggest problem in this whole story is the lack of organs. I would add that Croatia is smaller than Serbia and that it has two transplant centres - KC "Rebro" and "Dubravu". Although Croatia by the number of donors, or donors of these organs, is located at the very top. To understand ourselves, experience and not only ours in this area is not too great, because it is a new discipline based on the highest standards of medical science and practice and which has great significance and perspective. And not only the perspective of intensive development, but also the perspective above all of the great possibilities for human healing. This area of human cells and tissues has so far been governed by the 2009 Transplantation of Cells and Tissues Act. What's been going on for so many years? How ruined were the organs that could save someone's life? As usual, the government is late and proposes laws when it suits it or when it is pressed by the EU, under the burden of having to, agreeing and aligning with EU rules. The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against this practice and mode of work. As the most important link in this entire chain is the donor, the donor, and we think that it should remain on a sufficient basis for the reasons previously presented and that it absolutely remains a matter of personal choice for its individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42034	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42035	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, just in the previous presentation of our colleague, you heard a few exact information. You have heard that Croatia, although double the population, has a large number of donors and has developed a transplant program. What I said in the morning is precisely because Croatia changed the Transplant Law because it made a bill that we are discussing today. In Parliament, I repeat, I am interested in what is the interest of an ordinary citizen who is currently invisible to the republican administration. My focus is 2,000 people, 2,000 patients who need to get to the organs that can't get to the organs. They can only reach the organs to get the money, i.e. To gather humanitarian action, to go abroad. What interests me as a doctor, and I use this microphone exclusively because of this, is that the bill changes in Serbia, that Serbian doctors are allowed to help patients, that Serbian citizens do not have to go to Vienna, or go to Paris, or go to Germany, not to be harassed, that they are not civil in the second order, the patients of the second order, but to be operated in Serbia. So 2,000 patients are waiting for an organ. I'm just, I'm repeating, using this microphone to speak for them. If we had a larger number of donors, if potentially Serbian doctors could treat these patients, you'd also mention the centre you're trying to get involved in a transplant network of facilities where transplants would be carried out. So our citizens would have a chance to be treated in our hospitals. Our hospitals, I specifically speak for KC in Nis, have one of the most modern hospitals in the Balkans, as far as transplants and conditions are concerned. The problem is we don't have enough donors, we don't have enough organs to save people's lives. What many don't know is that these people can't get to the Assembly, they can't get to the ministry, they're fighting their disease in four walls with their family and they're losing that fight at a high rate, they're losing their lives. The exit is just the development of a good transplant programme and the possibility for Serbia to be at odds with the developed European human countries that adopted this legislative proposal. I end every exhibition during the day and point to the great humanity of donation and donation. Through this example, I think someone, I'd like to mention two twin sisters where the uterus is transplanted. One was born with the womb, the other was born with no uterus, that the sister decided after three of her pregnancy to donate her womb to her twin sister. One and the other is thirty-seven years old. We've successfully done a uterine transplant. She gave birth to a baby. There's nothing better for a doctor than to do something like that. Such a sophisticated operation was done and a new life was born. We're talking about fighting for our patients' lives. I absolutely don't care about any comments, pranks, pranks, jumps, which is whose attitude, what rights. The greatest human right is the right to live and I in parliament use this microphone precisely to fight for the right to live our patients who have a problem, and when they have a problem with organ transplants they have to find ways. So far, our heart transplant patients have gone abroad. An example of a little girl from Koceljeva where huge money was collected, where the Republic Fund collected money, where the church collected money, where it was accepted in France to do a transplant. The transplant cost 200,000 euros, plus 100,000 euros in transport and stay costs in France. I, as a doctor and as a MP, want all these interventions to be done in Serbia and that our patients have a chance to have a better and better life and to continue life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42036	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42037	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, there's only one thing I would disagree with my predecessor, which is when he says he's fighting for life. I am, colleague, convinced that here everyone in this room is whether we are part of the position, part of the opposition, we are all fighting for the lives of all citizens and our basic existence in this House is just that. I want to ask Mr. Minister, as well as to tell him that, Mr. Minister, anyone who wants to be human can find a way to be human and anyone who doesn't want to be human can find an excuse. I want to ask you for the fifth time, I'm more uncomfortable, I don't know if it makes you uncomfortable, every time I get a positive answer from you, but I haven't been able to see any reaction after that answer. I ask the question the sixth time about the dialysis department in Vranjska Banja, it certainly has to do with this law, these are people whose kidneys have been affected, these are people who, when they have easier conditions and when dialysis can work in one correct and quality way, do not bring or, as I would say, make it easier for others who have come to the last line that they have to do kidney transplants, and I would agree with all my colleagues that it is definitely a deficit in this country, not only when it comes to kidneys, but any organ. So I'm asking you, can you give me one meaningful answer today and tell me why in the next 30 days, all that equipment in Vranjska Banja will be written off? They say after ten years of not using some equipment she's law enforcement going into write-off. I've been here six years since I've been a MP asking one question, I personally don't have that problem, but understand me, with the goal of letting that department into office. You asked me to take the complete paperwork to your chief of staff, Nicola Pandz, which is not my job. I did it. I've only informed you, every time I've said here to protect you, that your associates haven't informed you well. If I say it six times and I don't get an answer and it ends now by writing off that equipment tomorrow, I think it's more than incorrect on your side towards me. After all, according to all these colleagues and those people, people go on dialysis from Vrnjak spa. Please give me an answer now, I don't need it in writing, don't refer me to the chief of staff, to the secretary of staff, I ask you, because I don't know who above you I can ask about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42038	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42039	I'll give you a concrete answer. In 2008, the grant of the dialysis machine was from the Italian embassy. The apparatus was won, but no other conditions were met at the time. There weren't adequate conditions in the rooms that were, then, there was no frame to do that, no permits were needed, etc. Then, when you asked that question, interested in it, in the meantime we did and made it possible. So, they've got the space, they've got the frame, they've got all the permits, and we've come into a situation that's been in place since 2008, and they haven't even been unpacked today. When the service came, when we sent the service to see what could be done with these appliances, the director of that facility didn't allow these appliances to be touched, but had a new idea that they needed to be replaced without any viewing, with nothing, for other appliances. I have to inform you that a decision was made literally two or three days ago, the hospital's leadership will be replaced, and in the shortest time, all the conditions are created, the dialysis will start. So, they'll check themselves out, the service will finally come in and check the appliances, get them out of the box, make sure they can get better and work, whether it's safe or not. If, we've already found a donation of new appliances that will enter, but they've finally gained all the conditions that it can do, but it will be with new leadership.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42040	Thank you, Minister. The word is Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42041	Mr. Minister, I've heard these answers five times, and that's why I want to tell you one thing for the truth. In 2011, I was just people from the home of health, i.e. from the hospital informed that this didn't work. I became an MP in 2012 and only then did I get the right and opportunity to ask. All the terms of the minister were met. Someone's not telling you the truth, believe me. The staff's been training, the staff's hired, these people have been receiving salaries for the last eight years. That's all you can check out, Minister. Maybe this is small for you. This is a big deal for me in Vronjska Banja. Because every time they say -- here, we'll finally get the department, you promised me that again, the sixth time. I just want to tell everyone that apart from what I'm doing right now, I don't have any more power, and I don't know how to ask you to get someone to start it off the dead end anymore. That department is locked in chains and I showed it to your chief of staff. So this is how the chain is closed and the lock is placed, which Bogoljub Karic would say, when he talks about factories, but this is literally the word. So, everything's equipped, I don't know what the interest is, and if there's any ground in the middle, as I hear it, or any other reason, please give them a warrant to start working as soon as possible. Here, I'm telling you, I will never ask this question in this House again, because I am ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42042	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42043	I'm responsibly saying that your information isn't correct, they didn't have all the working conditions, that's correct. In the meantime, everything was done to win. It's true that we've also employed the frame and that we're paying for it, and that it's not working, but it's been recently obtained. Now we've encountered a problem that the director won't touch those appliances, now she wants to throw out those appliances, throw in some new ones. It's no problem if these machines aren't good enough for us to put new ones on. There were both committees and inspections from the Fund, from the Ministry of Health, so not one, but two inspections were that there wouldn't be a discrepancy of this. It wasn't until we got it all together, and one and another inspection came in phase. There are now all the conditions, there's one thing left for experts to say these machines can or can't. In order to justify that experts say that something could have been done on them, and that they could have done the most normal work, but you have a problem, the director didn't let those appliances be touched until the day before yesterday, because she made a decision to throw out those appliances. The director won't be here anymore, the commission will come in, or the service to see what's going on with those appliances, but I say, we've got new ones ready. I'm responsible, these are facts, because I was in Vranjska Banja the other day and I got to know all the facts well. So I think the solution will be, by Monday you'll have a new director there and you'll have a problem solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42044	Thank you, Minister. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42045	As we moved further and further away in the debate at this time, the first member of this first law, I must note to Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we have really had some pathetic and narrow-minded views here, to point out again that this is the most legislative body, that it is not a seminar of experts and doctors, with respect to the medical profession and all colleagues that it is, and that here we need first of all to look at the constitutional and legal framework of this law, and I have already said in my first statement that he is against the Constitution. Then it's a little bit sensitive on this subject, you know, and it's degutant to say in the light of this law -- it's going to cut costs, because it's not a donor register anymore, but we have assumed consent, so what are they going to do and how are they going to receive people's wages, who are supposed to get consent or not get consent? So they're going to volunteer and no one's going to run that register. Who is this, let Minister Loncar say, he said that everyone has a right and that is the right of citizens to say explicitly that they will not, who will inform that resident in Black Travis, in the Shop, in Ljubova, in Prajani, that this law is passed and that in case he does not, he should explicitly report and say he will not? Second, Mr. Minister, I'm not going to enter your personality when it comes to your position on certain issues, but here's why Serbia's citizens are going to say and have started some colleagues on the subject, this is a profoundly biblical, anthropological issue. You know, our faith Christian teaches us that a man ceases to live at the moment when he comes to separating his soul from his body and as long as life, though hanging on to the end, exists, is a question and a fine line of decision is about who he's going to decide when that life ends. It's not just a question for our parliament either, and here I am now asking it here, and even Komlenski spoke about it earlier, imagine, although it is from such a political party, which is a very serious question indeed. Then we are now in a situation where you talk all the time and these colleagues who are doctors - humanity, humanity in action. Well, you know, you can't come up with a shortcut through ethics, morality and all this humanity and that way we can play with the will of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42046	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42047	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, has tried to, in this amendment, in practical terms, to make practical application of this law as simple and practical as possible, and to make it easier for those who will act under the amendment. In particular, it is legal terminology where the word "security" which is the basic definition of this law has been tried to replace it with the term "security". We think it is in line with the unique methodology of law making, but in any case even if a different attitude is taken, in no case will it be doubted what is the legal basis of this law. We have heard today, and in public, many times, respected ministers, legal dilemmas, and even constitutional dilemmas about whether something that is systematized here, or what is proposed as systematized, can be undermined under the appropriate normative whether it is constitutional normative or whether it is a normative that must be harmonised with the Constitution. What is an SPS attitude is that when we have an ethical or moral right on one side, compared to what is conventional law, in any case, not only because of 2,000 patients, but because of a much larger number of those who will be potential patients, and it is certain that they will be kept in mind the time in which we live, then that ethical right is something that must be above. It's something we have to respect and something that we need because of these people who expect their health, and health has no price, because it's a value that doesn't have a price, and therefore it's part of a higher value, and a higher value is life, and then because of these people, we have an ethical or moral obligation to allow systematic or systematicization of the law to regulate this area. Compared to 2009, this law is in any case a qualitative step, and therefore we also have due respect for what is a truly qualitative solution, so a good solution, what needs to be pursued. It is necessary to seek something that implies that no matter who is the bearer of the right to prohibit organ donation. Whether it's a person who's in a situation that forbids it or it's its universal supercession, that is, heir or family, we must always keep in mind what's most important, and the most important thing is to save lives or save lives. In a specific case, legally, since I am a lawyer and I have the freedom and the right to say it, there are no obstacles, there are no barriers, there is nothing but a personal attitude, there is nothing other than a personal belief and conviction that the Constitution is guaranteed to be through a unilateral declaration of will or limit, or to grant an organ, or the possibility of a transplant. That's all we're confirming by this systematicization. What is our obligation, MPs without intent to politicise this whole legislative regulation, and we must not politicise it, we must in no case make political marketing out of all this, is our obligation not to make this law the last law, but that through other upgrades, which will surely follow some other laws, even simplify the procedure and bring patients closer to the opportunity to come to what they need in life, and these are the healthy bodies that depend on their health, and hence the continuation of life. That's why I'm a legal advocate that this has to be systematized, that a law like this law must be passed, because, compared to previous legislation, it has its own qualitative shifts, so move forward, but we can't stop at it, we have to work on both the practice and through the legislation to help citizens, and I'm going to say not only, I'm going to repeat, not just 2,000 patients, but all citizens who can potentially be among those not only two, but who knows how many tens and hundreds of thousands of patients, can expect what they need to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42048	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42049	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1(2). Proposal for a law on human cells and tissues. On the draft law, the word “storage” is replaced by “maintenance of human cells and tissues in appropriate and controlled conditions”. It is known to all that a large number of Serbs with KIM are still being held as missing persons whose fate is not known. We've all heard of so-called. The "Yellow House" located in northern Albania, not far from the border with Serbia where organ transplants were carried out. There is reasonable doubt, and somewhere concrete evidence, that some of the missing Serbs ended up in the "Yellow House", where individual organs were taken for transplant purposes, better said for sale. We in the SRS are against passing one of these laws precisely because there is a great possibility of manipulation here. I, as a Serb with KIM, really wonders how it is possible that, before the adoption of this law imposed by the EU, it did not insist that the truth of what was happening in the famous "Yellow House" was cast out. Well, then what are our representatives talking about in Brussels with representatives of the so-called. The countries of Kosovo and although we have not heard a single word on this subject so far. Then what is the point of these Brussels negotiations if there was not a single very important issue concerning all Serbs with KIM, especially the relatives of the missing Serbs. Every day when I enter this building of ours I meet with this "wall of wages" on which the names of the missing persons have been written, many of whom my friends and acquaintances have ended by violently taking their organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42050	Dear MPs, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Slavica Zivkovic, elected from the Electoral List Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Slavica Zivkovic. I congratulate the People's Parliament on your election and I ask you to repeat with me the text of the oath. Appreciation, pursuant to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, now we will approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Thank you. Please sign the text of the oath. I congratulate you on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and wish you successful joint work in the current term. We can keep working. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42051	Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, since medicine is an area that develops intensively and offers great opportunities for treatment, which is most important for the life of each of us. The need to improve and specify conditions and organisations and jobs in the area of cells and tissues for human use has been established, as well as to monitor the conduct of jobs in the mentioned area in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the conditions under which these jobs can be done, after poor years of practice, to conduct procedures in healthcare institutions in this area, but without defining the conditions at the republican level as they will be carried out. In this way, we would remain behind the long-standing bad practice that health institutions doing certain jobs in this area cannot apply for permission to carry out these tasks, so that this proposal for a law on human cells and tissues first defines in a precise and clear way which health institutions can actually apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues. In addition, it is necessary to define a register of stem cell donors, haematopoiesis, which enables the finding of incompatible donors and the provision of transplant cells. The existing law did not clearly define the existence of a register as an organisational continent. Also, this bill requires the adoption of a human organ transplant programme involving human cells and tissues and which will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law has laid down a simplified procedure for issuing authorisations to health institutions for carrying out jobs in human cells and tissues, as well as for establishing a single information system in the area mentioned. What is the main and the main objectives of adopting such a law are, in addition to establishing a high level of safety and safety in the field of human cells and tissues, the definition and establishment of a bank of human cells and tissues, the definition of registers of progenitors of haematopies, inclusion in the republican human organ transplantation programme in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of a quality system in this area, the introduction of a single information system in the field of human cells and tissues in all institutions, as well as the Biomedicine Administration and clear inspection supervision in the area of human cells and tissues. It is very important for our citizens to know how and who these proposed solutions will affect. It is important that it affects citizens first, because the bill simplified the process of giving consent to tissue donation, then on patients on waiting lists for the transplantation of individual tissues, then on patients waiting for the transplantation of haematopiesis stem cells, then on the increase in the number of donors in the Republic register, on health institutions carrying out the work of the bank of human cells and tissues, on the Biomedicine Authority, as the competent authority in the field of biomedicine, and of course, most importantly, will affect society in general. Thanks for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42052	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42053	Thank you. Let's start some of the general things of life. We all know that in the country of Serbia if we are not in the Progressive Party we cannot get a job and if we do not have money, we cannot be treated. Right, Minister? Yes, it is. Now I'm going to tell you why I think so. That's because we really don't have a chance to heal from the inside, we don't have access to machines, we don't have top doctors, and that's our big problem, and it's a big handicap. What I'd ask you is what you've done about it and have you, since the Minister, been thinking about health problems, but in a real and real way, not the way you do it on TV and opening up a health center and then telling everyone that there's gonna be appliances, like this, like that, etc. We all know what kind of corruption is going on at the Ministry of Health, that over a billion euros disappears somewhere over the year, and we all suffer, in fact, when a new health center is opened, watching and thinking how much more money from the budget is going to be stolen from this people somewhere. What I want to ask you is, simply, how could you put this much authority on your own in the bill, and that is, for example, to get citizens to know who all these powers are. He says: "The conditions regarding staff, space, equipment, quality system and other conditions for the performance of the tasks referred to in Article 8 are prescribed by the Minister for Competent Affairs", means you, "the manner and technical conditions for the making up of the tasks of obtaining, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues by the minister", "the conditions regarding staff, space, equipment, quality systems and other conditions for the making up of the tasks referred to in Article 8 are prescribed by the Minister", "the means and conditions of selecting and assessing the health status of the living donor of human cells and tissues are prescribed by the minister", "the criteria for selecting the dead tissue donor is prescribed by the minister". For God's sake, Minister, when are you going to get all this in order and when will you be able to sign it? One more thing, in all that you have given yourself so much authority, I ask you, have you overlooked one truth and one reality that the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases "Dedependence", that this is one leading health institution in Serbia, in the Balkans, and that you have taken away the right to transplant the organs? I ask you to answer to the public and the citizens of Serbia why you did it, because when you say "heart," we all think of "grandfathers". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42054	The first amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment to the provision of the proposed law and I am staying with it. Health care in Serbia should have priorities over priorities. This law which is proposed for cells and for tissues, and also this second part relating to the regulations proposed for transplantation, in my opinion, is a characteristic of this bill of law, is discrimination pure. What does that mean? It means that you have taken away the licence from the Dedenje Institute, and you think that Serbia's Clinical Centre will settle everything it needs and that it will be able to provide services to everyone. He won't be able to make it in 10 years. Second, people have nowhere to treat. Milovan Bojic took a step in that direction. So it is about discrimination on both political and personal, because discrimination is directed exclusively at Milovan Bojic and the Institute. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to survive this institute, Mr. Minister. He must meet the needs of Serbian citizens because they have nowhere else to be treated. At least extend it at this time, and while the Clinical Centre of the Republic of Serbia is being trained and you put it into office 100%, then you should think about the Dedenje Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42056	Thank you. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the First Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42057	Thank you. In Article 1 The bill on human cells and tissues provides basic provisions regarding this law. We of the SRS parliamentary group have tabled an amendment to the position of the 2nd member we have proposed to make certain amendments. The amendment proposed that the text of a law that would be adopted instead of saying: “donation” says the word“ donations. ” We believe that this amendment of ours should be accepted, given the importance of the law that we are having today's debate. It is very important to point out that Article 15 of this proposal provides for the obligation of stationary health institutions to participate in a republican human organ transplant programme, which is established by law governing the area of human organ transplantation, and that the human organ donor tissue programme is included. What's common in transplanting human organs and tissues is that the proposer is trying to present them to us as something that will simplify the procedure and avoid financial costs of keeping the register, by defaulting consent. They repeat the position both by the SRS parliamentary group in the debate and in principle, which is that such provisions are unconstitutional and do not need to be adopted in this form. We object to the proposing who, as one of the reasons for the adoption of this law, also cites the need to comply with EU legislation, because this area is only partly in line with European legislation and there is a need for certain professional terms to be defined differently and more precisely, and in order to fully harmonise domestic law in this area with EU law in the manner recommended by the EU. The Serbian Radical Party will always insist that laws are adopted in the National Assembly that will be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and not because of the Serbian government's intention to become a member of the EU, will not become in particular because the EU does not want Serbia in its membership. As far as the SRS is concerned, our view is that we should not become an EU member.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42058	The first amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42059	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the state of health is alarming, we don't have equipment, we don't have conditions, expert when leaving the country hastily, there's no consumer material missing, no citizens' trust, and we have rows, miles of waiting lists for routine checks, corruption, bursar deals, pharmaceutical mafia. Of all resolutions, health care is currently in the worst condition and is aware of this by every citizen. Don't doubt it at all. Instead of providing the basics first, to find a way to prevent personnel from going abroad, to reduce corruption and thus restore citizens' trust, it is most urgent for you to pass this law under the EU directive. You're doing everything wrong. As it is human and human to give your organs, save someone's life, so it's humane to leave the will of the citizens to decide for themselves, and when you fix the state of health, you really could, you had six years to do it. You've been in power for six years. Then the number of donor cards will increase dramatically because it is essential to restore citizens' trust in health care. That's the most important thing about such sensitive subjects, because when a man is on the verge of life and death, he has to be sure of that doctor, that the doctor will fight for his life and not for his organ. Now there's no trust, because if he did, this law wouldn't be necessary. People would sign donor cards themselves, and that's the biggest problem. By passing this repressive law, you are further violating citizens' trust and will only be a reverse effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42060	The first amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42061	Thank you. I support this amendment submitted by my colleague, and I will use the time of the parliamentary group. The reasons for the adoption of the proposal for this law, the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, as well as the Law on organ transplants, are contained in the need for the area of human cells and tissues to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, which offers great treatment opportunities, as well as for the health institutions performing these tasks to be able to improve conditions in line with modern achievements in this area. The power of both of these laws has so far been governed by the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation of the Authorities of 2009 and after six years of application of this law, the needs to improve and specify the conditions of the organisations, as well as the supervision of the conduct of operations in this area have been established. The consequences of an unregulated system in this area in which several transplant centres carry out a transplant of the same organs, while none of them fulfil the conditions of the quality system is the fact that the Republic of Serbia is at the bottom of the scale in Europe by the number of human organ donors realised after death. Namely, the number of donors is between one and two per million inhabitants. One of the main reasons for the adoption of the laws on human organs, tissues and cells is the increase of cadaveric donors and the number of successful human organ transplants, as well as the reduced waiting list for organ transplants as well as the need to establish the basis for the establishment of an organisational system. To establish effective procedures for the donation or acquisition of organs from dead persons in accordance with professional standards, guidelines and ethical principles. Consistent with the modern standards of medical science and practice as well as the quality of the safety of the transplanting body. This bill makes it clear that the distribution of health institutions to carry out transplant operations, i.e. taking human organs and hospitals to donate them, is an obligation to do so. What is good in this law is the adoption of a human organ transplant programme that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that will define clear procedures and procedures regarding the organisation of teams and the financing of the overall process and thus avoid unnecessary financial costs of keeping a register. The new law simplified the process of granting consent to a transplant, or assumed consent, is certainly the most important amendment provided for by this law. There have been a lot of words here about assumed consent, a lot of dilemmas, but I must stress that the public debate and how long it took and how much of the professional public has given consent to it. So I really don't see any reason to discuss it anymore. So much, I don't want any more of that assumed consent. What I would further point out is that the bill specifies the role and tasks of the Biomedicine Authority as a competent body in the field of biomedicine at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia. The Board will also form inspection supervision, trained with experience in this medical field, as well as monitoring the modern achievements of science. They will carry out continuous expert surveillance in this area and at least once every two years, as well as in case of suspicion or knowledge of any serious, unwanted event or reaction. The Biomedicine Administration will issue licences to health institutions indefinitely, but will also take away the same if it detects irregularities in them as well as keeping a register of human organs providers and recipients of the same, medical institutions register for taking, testing and transplanting human organs, keeping a register of serious, unwanted events and reactions as well as a system for rapid response and information. Benefit of this law is also the establishment of a single information system in the field of human organ transplantation in order to establish and maintain a traceability system. The paper of this law is the possibility of transplanting from the life of an incompatible donor under a cross-donation programme between two or more biologically incompatible couples. Namely, all patients in need of organ transplants cannot have a compatible living donor all due to the incompatibility of blood groups and HLA sensitization. The cross-donation programme among incompatible couples allows the blood-group barrier to be exceeded and HLA sensitised without additional immunosuppressive treatment of the recipient, which reduces the risk of complications in patients while reducing the cost of the procedure. The adoption of this law will increase the number of cadaveric human organ donors, as well as the reduction of the waiting list for them. It has significant health, economic and general social values. The development of a human organ transplant program increases the only chance for individual survival patients, especially patients on waiting lists for liver and heart transplants, as only this method saves their lives, as well as reducing mortality rates for patients on waiting lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42062	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Joseph Broz. The first amendment in the same text was submitted by Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42063	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft laws on human cells and tissues, as well as the proposal for organ transplant laws, are very important laws because they treat areas that mean new life to someone. We agree that donating human organs and tissues is a human gesture, but only when it's an expression of our free will. That's not going to be this bill. This proposal introduces so-called. assumed consent, by which all citizens will be donors. The Serbian Radical Party that organ donation must be a free choice for every Serbian citizen, not a legal, repressive measure, which may be subject to major abuses. That is why we believe that organ and tissue donation should be voluntary, that the donor cards remain, not that the citizens of Serbia are terrified, as we have repeatedly heard, that they will be hit by a car at a pedestrian crossing, because they need a suitable organ. Minister, the criticisms that we Serbian radicals are giving you, I see that you are experiencing them personally, and that you are ignoring them, which is not particularly one of the ministers, and it is our parliamentary right to criticise and praise you when we have an argument about this, which in your case is very difficult, because you are committed to a number of abuses in health. We see that this bill is passed under the EU directive, the same one that you are flocking to embrace, with all the bodies that the European Union tried to kidnap and destroy in 1999. Do you think that with this kind of corruption in health, mentioning and the judiciary, the European Union will and will, and surely by then, since we are scrambling, will not accept us, but probably all of these bodies of the European Union will be rotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42064	Under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42065	According to this amendment and a few amendments earlier, when I was as a MP and as a doctor, I heard that there was fear of the legacy of the organs by this law. I can say that it's personally funny to me, as a doctor, when it's said that someone is going to chase us in the car and hit us at the walkway, so they can take the organ. I can only tell you that you can't imagine how complicated the procedure is to check whether a patient is responding to a particular organ. He has to go through a number of tests and tests, from HLA typing, from a cross-mechanical, from a blood group, so it's very difficult to interfere with and that in a certain patient who needs an organ, someone has to guess at the moment he loses his life that his body is identical and compatible with his body. We don't need to sow fear and scare people that someone, anyone, will take our organs. I said that in the afternoon session, I'm talking right now. It is important that we send the citizens of Serbia a message that we want people who are currently invisible, who are struggling with severe diseases, who are losing battle with these diseases, just because we in Serbia don't have enough donors, simply, they're dying, and I think this is now an opportunity for a health system, and more importantly, for those patients who are waiting for that organ, great and that they have a chance to extend their lives. I have used every opportunity, and in the last term, even before joining the Assembly, and by re-entering the Assembly, I have said that it is one of my wishes to adopt a law in parliament that would amend the Transplantation Act and this is that day, so as a physician, I am extremely pleased that we have the opportunity to make a system solution for these patients. As a doctor, I'm not ashamed to talk about all this, but as a doctor, I'm happy to have the opportunity to talk about this in Parliament. This law does not impose on the European Union. This law is something that is good for patients, this law is made by doctors, experts who do their profession, who are involved in transplants and, I repeat, who have held lectures at international conventions, wrote books, and from some books I have learned from those professors who participated in writing this bill, so I repeat that I am interested in those two thousand patients waiting for the organ, I am interested in allowing this bill to enable all Serbian citizens who have a problem at some point, whether tonight, whether tomorrow, or in a month, when they are diagnosed, or someone close to them to get that diagnosis, to have a chance to heal in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42066	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42067	We've been listening all day - I'm a doctor, I'm a doctor. Come on, Minister, tell him he'll be one of the chiefs of the Nis Clinical Center and we'll finish this investment and repeat all day long. He says, "How long does it take to determine that an organ is responding to someone?" Here, as a doctor, Dr Milosevic says that half of Serbia's hospitals do not meet the conditions for brain death and have neither experience nor equipment in the process of identifying and maintaining potential cadaveric donors. That is why professional people are needed who are at the reference centres. The liver has to be done within 12 hours. So you don't have to invent hot water now. Heart within seven to eight hours. Kidneys up to 48 hours. Of course, the sooner it's done, the better. So let it go - I'm a doctor, I'm a doctor. You're not here at the clinic, you're a folk ambassador, just like all of us. And we've prepared ourselves for this bill, and it doesn't take a man to be a doctor so that he can speak as a MP about the bill. Give some new argument, don't spin the same story all day. I repeat, Minister, let him be one of the chiefs at the clinical center and let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42068	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42069	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected health ministers, respected citizens, this proposal of the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, as well as other laws in the set of health law, the Serbian Progressive Party with Aleksandra Vukic continues to build and edit our common house, the Republic of Serbia. My amendments aim to highlight this overall progress and improve the medical system in the Republic of Serbia. I will give some concrete examples of how we in Novi Sad, led by Mayor Milos Vučević, are doing how this specifically improves the medical system. About a month ago, a new facility at the New Sad Emergency Medical Services began to work. Also, internal emergency ambulance access stations have been built with two entrances. A truly world-wide modern building has been built in which our doctors will provide medical assistance. The value of this investment is about 340 million dinars, and we bought four new ambulances. During the previous four years past this project, the city invested 146 million dinars in the Emergency Medical Services. Important information for parents is that this address is attended by a night pediatrician with the best doctors and equipment. In a new and highly equipped facility, the system of functioning of the newest emergency aid will be much more efficient. This is an example of how this big investment should be realized, because the whole job is over in less than a year. We were able to invest more than 3,750,000 dinars in increasing health care levels in Vojvodina in two years. I believe that such examples exist in other areas of the Republic of Serbia, wherever the government is running the SNS, but what I cannot believe, and that's all I heard today during the amendments debate. I agree, someone doesn't have to be a doctor, a doctor, a medical doctor, to have the right to comment on this law, but it also doesn't give anyone the right to the fact that he's not a health care professional that in the most cruel way possible contests the correctness of passing such a law. Why am I talking like this? I'm someone who has an example of liver transplant in a wider family. I know how long the night was while we were waiting for the whole thing to start. I know how long it's been to recover, and I know how impatiently we've been waiting for the fifth year after the transplant. So the harmonisation of laws with European laws in this case is not a priority. I think this is something that Serbia is waiting for, what the sick are waiting for, and I don't see why this paranoid approach with an example of crossing the pedestrian crossing? Remember how the entire action of the donor card was challenged, how people hid that they had a card because someone told them – You're not normal, they'll knock on your house because they know you signed that after you died, you'll donate your organs. I would not have instructed further examples, except that I ask the citizens of Serbia to understand that not everyone is well-intentioned and that not every discussion is about the adoption of this law. A good part of the discussion in this House today, come on, maybe it's not a good part, but one part of the discussion we know what he's been up to, challenge everything the government does, even though passing this law is really something to be expected of. Minister, I support this. Of course I'm going to vote for this law, and I think in a further discussion, we're going to approach law-making in a completely different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42070	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42071	Thank you, President. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the adoption of laws on human cells and tissues is regulated and provided a system in the field of health. One reason why this law is passed is the need for human cell and tissue areas to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice. The area of medicine is developing intensively, thus offering much greater and better treatment opportunities, and in the institutions doing these tasks better conditions must be provided in line with modern achievements in this area. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 1 of the proposed Law on Human Cells and Tissues is added in paragraph 3 and reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the medical system." stem cells are young, still undefined cells that can develop in their further development into any kind of tissue that is very important for the treatment of severe and rare diseases. A wide scope of their application can lead to major progress in medical research, as well as in the field of diagnostics and in the field of treatment. This would encourage the development of all areas of health, pharmaceutical industry, fields of scientific research, and would affect the improvement of the health status of the population, which is our priority, as well as the ability to employ and perfect young people. The amendment is further defined by Article 1 of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42072	National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the People's Messenger is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42073	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the primary objective of this law is to establish a new and significantly higher level of safety related to the area of stem cells and tissues and the most important steps to this end are certainly to form and create a bank for stem cells and tissues, then create a common register of stem cell providers, then edit the single information system and perhaps the most important part, and this is a clear inspection control in this area. Some colleagues who have spilled certain conspiracy theories and these conspiracy theories are aimed at having a bad effect on human intentions and the whole idea, the whole human idea of this law may have had to look at this whole problem from the corner of a man who is now waiting for a tissue transplant, who wonders when it will come to order and what is the probability that a proper donor will appear in a register. From that angle, it might not be bad, I'm speaking very carefully of this, to go to this man who is now waiting for a donor, for a transplant, and to give him this philosophical speech or that heroic speech or whatever. He will not help him. His condition will only deteriorate. So by this law and by establishing a clear and transparent system, we increase citizens' trust. So we're going to have a larger number of donors, conditionally said richer register, and therefore more likely that whoever donates to health first, and if there's anything more to it than that. This is the foundation, our people have no problem being human, but they need guidance. This law is a foundation, a signpost, and our people have never failed in the test of humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42074	I thank my colleague Janjusevic. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Fired Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42075	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on human cells and tissues will regulate this area according to the highest standards, just as the state of Serbia and its citizens should. After a series of laws that we have passed here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will positively affect the improvement of the living conditions of our citizens, has come another bill that follows this trend. This law will simplify the procedure for granting consent to the donation of tissues. Also, the law provided the possibility that every adult person would be able to declare by written and oral means that he did not want to donate organs. What is also expected as a positive influence is on patients on waiting lists for tissue transplants. The waiting time will be shortened, and the necessary tissue will be stored, processed and distributed in accordance with the highest standards possible. One of the positive effects of applying this law will also be the increase in the number of donors and its faster finding in the republican registry. It is necessary to say that this bill also implies the implementation of the voluntary donation promotion. This may be one of the most important parts of this law, because from the success of the promotion and these campaigns in many ways it will mean how long or short the waiting lists will be and how many diseases will be cured or saved human lives. I think this solution to have a whole new law ahead of us, Serbia will join developed countries and societies of Europe and the world, who are responsible for their citizens, implementing a good health policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42076	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42077	I thank the chairman. Realising the right to health is crucial for the achievement of human rights and the basis for sustainable development, and it is crucial for the well-being of people. Investment in health promotes economic growth and the development of the country. Since the proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues refers to solving and improving the quality and safety of tissue and cell donations, an effective organisation of health institutions operating in the field of human cells and tissues is provided. In Article 1 of this law, I proposed adding an attitude that indicates that this law encourages the sustainability of the development of medical centres, thus the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. To maintain the development of medical centres, standardisation is needed in this area. All this has been sent to the euro funds to help ensure the quality of services in terms of collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues. In Belgrade, we have an example of KC Serbia that has received a newly built bone marrow transplant centre and has been enabled to perform a stem cell transplant in KC Serbia that allows our citizens to perform this type of operation in their country. Building a transplant centre, a completely new sterile bloc, the KC Serbia Hematology Clinic will be able to do between 30 and 40 aogenic transplants on an annual basis, as well as 50 autologous transplants. That way we will be able for the first time to meet all the needs for these interventions in our country. In addition, I must add that during a very short period of KC Serbia has received one of the five most modern biomedical laboratories in the world, the last word of technology, where 5,000 samples will be processed within an hour, or more than 12 million analyses per year. There are only four such laboratories in the world in: Germany, England, Belgium and Israel, which is very important to mention and to let citizens hear, because these are the results of the work and efforts of this government. The condition found in the health system after the yellow authority was catastrophic. Although the fresh memory of Serbian citizens is of the fact that our hospitals have been completely ostracized by outdated equipment and technology, it is not a waste to keep reminding ourselves, because we have now reached a level where we have insight into the constant improvement of health institutions. Only from January to April of this year, 227 Serbian health institutions have made the purchase of equipment or investment works, and it is realistic to say that we have all felt great improvements in health care with, of course, sustainable development plans that will slowly be caught up with advanced EU health systems. We are expected to conclude a contract for the reconstruction of clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. There is still a great deal of investment, the construction of new and reconstruction of existing infrastructure, the improvement of working conditions in the health system and conditions for the treatment of citizens, as this is the only way to continue with the development of medical centres, which directly affects the overall development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42078	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42079	Gentlemen, MPs, one of the biggest enemies of Serbia's health, and especially children's and youth's health, unfortunately, is drug abuse. That's why I think it's extremely important that the Ministry of Health cooperates with the Ministry of the Interior. The interior ministry, headed by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, has achieved very well-detected results over the past four years in the fight against this type of crime. From 2014 to 2018, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia seized 43% more narcotics than in the period 2010 to 2014. In addition to increased drug confiscation, various types of narcotics, otherwise that drug confiscation is 13.7 tonnes in the period from 2014 to 2018, the total number of crimes committed was reduced by almost 9% compared to the period from 2010 to 2014. What is also important to highlight, and it is related to drug trafficking, is that 17% of the less criminal acts against citizens' property, as well as 19% of fewer murders. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that in 2017, the first ecstasy laboratory was discovered in the Republic of Serbia, and there has been a significant increase in the seizure of synthetic drugs and Serbia is among the first countries in Europe. From 2014 to 2018, 1,800,000 Ecstasy tablets were taken, which is three times more than in the period 2010 to 2014. What I would also like to stress, which is a great success of the interior ministry, is that they have achieved exceptional results when it comes to fighting illegal drug trafficking with police in Spain, the Czech Republic, Germany and Austria, practically by 2012, i.e. by 2014, the Republic of Serbia, in this regard, has almost failed to achieve international police co-operation at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42080	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42081	Thank you. I must point out that the Law on Human Cells and Tissues is a significant step forward towards improving the quality of health care, but also towards improving the safety of citizens' health. For SNS, the life and health of its citizens is something that is most sacred and certainly all the time the exercise of the SNS authorities shows by its work and, above all, the work of the Government shows that it works in the interests of all citizens, and here in particular in the interest of preserving the health of citizens. What kind of health care did we find? We have found a health care that, as well as all other segments of our society, has experienced one complete sunflower and collapse. I must point out that our health system wasn't even measurable at the time of 2012 because there were no parameters, and there were no indicators based on which the measurement could have been done. I must commend you Ministers, Government, whose head today's President Alexander Vukic was then, that we have made progress from 2015 to 2017 by 12 places and are now in the 24th position and we are ahead of eight EU countries. Of course, through constant work, this progress in the field of health and health care is going forward. I must also point out that this Law on Human Cells and Tissues is actually a law on life-longing. Of course, he, in his basics, except for the health aspect, has a profoundly humanistic character. I am one of those who signed the donor card with my will and informed my offspring about it. I believe that the most human act is precisely the act of one man to make his organs known and be able to donate his organs to one who can extend his life, and we know that it is most often not just one case, but more cases of life extension. I would especially like to emphasise here the return of vision to blind and impaired faces through transplants, i.e. eye tissue transplants, or corneas. I would like to stress that on the waiting list of blind and weak-sighted, which is possible to restore vision by transplanting and transplanting the eye tissue, i.e. the cornea, there are 1,400. Of course, they watch the transmission of this National Assembly and certainly that it is important for their quality of life, for their happier lives, but also for the happier lives of their families, because by returning their eyesight will allow a large number of children, or one number of children, to see their parents for the first time, and some parents to see their children for the first time. What I also want to praise, which is related to this law, is the register of unwanted consequences in the application of this law, which is run by the Biomedicine Administration, i.e. the Biomedicine Administration, is required by all health institutions and cell and tissue banks to supply such data. Why is an important registry of unwanted consequences? Therefore, immediately, in an urgent, timely and adequate manner, an error would be removed if there were errors and the same error would not be repeated. I would also like to point out in particular Article 32 of the law mentioned relating to the promotion of voluntary organ, cell and tissue giving. There is a great responsibility at the Ministry of Health and certainly the Ministry of Health, that is, when you adopt a plan and a programme of activities in the realization of this member of the law, you will affect the raising of awareness, the breaking of prejudice, the breaking of stereotypes, and certainly the number of cell and tissue donors will be greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42082	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42083	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the development of all those areas that are important for the functioning of society, of course, represents a permanent definition of SNS, and this development represents the essence of the proposed amendment to Article 1. This development is achieved among other things and the adoption of good legal solutions, and when I say so, first of all, I think of these laws that we are discussing today, specifically those concerning human cell and tissue issues. Regardless of all the attempts to challenge some parts of this law, it is undeniably good, and when I say the undeniable good, to be clear to the citizens who are being followed, I mean the fact that in a precise and clear way it defines which health institutions can deal with such an important area, I guess it is indisputable and clear, defining the precise conditions under which institutions can operate, it is probably indisputable and clear, further, introducing high standards when it comes to sensitive and important areas, which is likely again incontrovertible and clear only well, defines the register of stem cell providers, introduces a simplified procedure, i.e. making these procedures important for protecting health and general security of the quality of our citizens' lives more efficient, which is again indisputable and completely clear, exclusively good for citizens. There is an inspection inspection that allows everything to be exactly in line with those standards that we adopt and that we will determine when this law is passed, which is still indisputable and clearly good. Donorship is being promoted. Citizens' awareness rises and these best standards are introduced that are on the line of current world science and practice. All very clean and clear and good for citizens and useful things. You don't have to be a doctor, and that's exactly right, so you can understand and see these things. But I can't help but notice that when good correct estimates that all of this is really like I say, uncontestably and clearly, when such assessments come from people who belong to the opposite part of the political scene and knowing our society and our manners to be driven against every proposal that comes from our side, and yet someone on the other hand speaks affirmatively about these laws, for me, let me, however, it still adds proof that this is really all good. When someone who's a doctor comes in, it's just more proof to me. Those who cannot resist the need to give in to that inert, of course, have the right, but it is, I must say, a pity. It has been said that the adoption of these laws is bad because it represents a European standard, because it is a standard in EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our interest is what we need to be interested in. Our interest is that our citizens live well, to ensure the quality of life, to ensure the health of our people. If this is due to European integration, it is some additional plus for them. If it has nothing to do with them, and it doesn't have to do with them, it's something we do for our own needs, for our own people, for something that's probably undeniable and clearly good for us again. So there's no argument, nor is there any argument in the claims that citizens don't trust doctors, so that's why we shouldn't pass this law. I haven't met, nor do I believe that in life I will meet a man who will say - I don't trust doctors and that's why I don't want to live or want someone close to me to live. You won't meet a man like that, either. That there is no and there is free will cannot be settled until the end of those who are obviously, once again, the main goal of being in the agency news today, and tomorrow in the daily newspaper because they have said something big and loud and in some strong way offended the present minister, but there is no substance here again, there is no argument, nor any argument in the claim that we should not vote for the things that serve our citizens, which protect their lives and health, because, as it was, absolutely flat-out and on nothing based – we do not know whether anyone is going to steal money from the health budget. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no story, nor can there be any thefts from the country's health budget that is so good today that it is funding from that budget with over eight billion adaptations and the equipment of health institutions throughout the country. With over eight billion -- when was that? It's a reality today. There are no stories about these insinuations on stealing in a country that can acquire about a hundred new sanityes today, and today it can do so. There's no story on the subject in the country that gets linear accelerators, and we've got more of them just to reduce these waiting lines and we've managed to do it. There is no story on the subject in a country that has singled out more than 4.5 billion dinars to treat the rare diseases of our children, but also adults, and it could not have done so before it started to behave domestically and take care of itself, of course before those governments that Alexander Vukic and the governments that continue this joint business today. There's no story on the subject. After all, if all the stories come down to a man becoming a cyborg, and this is actually good, but we are late and now we are chasing Croatia, it is clear – and those who want to criticise can not yet praise even unconsciously. When the line is drawn, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should all support this. Those who manage to resist this urge to just be against and yet press the key and vote for these laws, be assured, not to repent, but to be proud, and to you ministers once again all compliments on these proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42084	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42085	I just want to let you know something that happens in the last two hours in a hospital in Belgrade and in a hospital outside Belgrade. A relative from a Belgrade patient, where conditions have been met to be a donor, wants and insists on it, they come and ask for the patient to be a donor. The second thing, one child of 16 years in a hospital outside Belgrade also brain dead, parents come, they won't leave until they find someone to transplant their organs. So much for what we're talking about right now. This is happening in real time. This is happening now. Thank you to those who participated in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42086	National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42087	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which adds Article 3 which reads that this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the development of health conditions. The organisation of the healthcare system, the organisation of health services, care for the health of the population, the rights and obligations of patients are only part of the area, and also the most important ones regulated by the Law on Health Protection of the Republic of Serbia, which have great importance for human health, and thus affect the quality of life of the population. In order to better implement the basic role of health services, which is a social concern for human health, it is necessary to implement measures of economic and social policies that create conditions for the implementation of health care and all with a view to preserving and improving human health, as well as measures that harmonize the functioning and development of the health care system. The social concern for the health of the population is reflected, among other things, in the discovery, in the prevention of risk factors for disease, in the acquisition of habits about healthy lifestyles, early detection of diseases, timely diagnostics, timely treatment and rehabilitation of patients. In view of the above, it is necessary to work constantly to improve the conditions for the implementation of public health protection, as much can and should be done and improved in this field. The health center of Užica, the city from which I come, has been providing health care to the people of Zlatibor County since its establishment in 1990, in 10 municipalities in all towns of Zlatibor County. Afterwards, over three general hospitals in Užica and out-of-state departments in Novi Varoša, Požeza, Sjenica, Priboj, Prijepolje and are scheduled by the plan of a network of health care centres of Užica to carry out primary health care for the population, stationary health care and specialised advisory work. Employees of the Užica Health Centre, headed by management, are making and making every effort to improve working conditions and provide health services to all those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42088	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42089	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the purpose, that is, the purpose of each of the laws that we are discussing here should be a better quality of life for citizens, on the other hand, easier to solve certain problems, if they have them, and the most valuable and most important goal that declares every government and every party, the well-being of all Serbian citizens. There is no doubt that the laws on the agenda today have fulfilled that purpose. It's up to us to take a good look at them and adopt them when they get there. Each country should take care of all areas, especially education and health care. These are two pillars where every society rests. A society that has uneducated people who have no healthy people have no perspective. Today there was Minister Mladen Sarcevic, the minister of education, with his team, and he gave hope and faith to the people in the municipality, that the state really takes care of all parts of Serbia, and so on and those parts that are less developed. Minister Sarcevic promised a lot of things and told us what the ministry had done and what it would do. I give my regards to Minister Loncar, and I invite him on behalf of all Montenegrins to visit the municipality with his team, to see with his team, because it is a prototype of an undeveloped municipality, borderline, to see what conditions people live in and work in that part of our country. They will be particularly pleased and you will give them great hope and the will to keep fighting and to live in that part of Serbia that is less developed if you and your team point to certain things that you do and what you will do in the future. That when you visit Black Weed with your team will mean a lot to those people. I believe it will be very soon. I especially thank Minister Lonchar for the information he just gave us because it's something that's extremely nice, nice and good when we hear it. I had a pain in the ass to have a citizen who came to me a few years ago to turn to me for a request - he needs a kidney for a transplant, he can't get in line. So, I was trying, and I was praying to my colleague Loncar, and I asked the director of the urology clinic, and they had a good will to come out, but what's going on? Not all elements that matter to transplant that organ can be needed. So it's not that simple, we'll just find, we'll get an organ from some donor and we'll be able to give it to whoever needs it. Many of these elements need to be matched. The first element is this one here that we are discussing and who we are talking about and if we consciously declare these laws here and if we all have this awareness that it is something that is positive and good for our citizens, then it will be much easier to solve this problem. I hope that we will all be aware enough, that we will make sure that the people in need arrive on time, in good time, and that that purpose that we have set is fulfilled properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42090	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42091	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this law regulates this extremely important area of consistent application in critical situations after 39 years. The previous law does not recognise the importance of defining and setting up jobs in the field of human cells and tissues for human use, as well as the conditions under which these jobs can be carried out, which include donations, acquisitions, testing, processing, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from live or dead persons, which have caused poor years of practice in healthcare institutions to carry out procedures in this area, but without defining conditions at the Republic level as they will be carried out. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues first defines in a precise and clear manner which health institutions can apply for human cell and tissue activities, as well as which can be human tissue banks, including any conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit. This legal solution will resolve past bad practice and reduce waiting lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42092	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42093	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not prepared to accept all those mostly flat-rate and unfounded criticisms that we've had in our day to listen to, when it comes to the bill. My support for this law is seen among other things as a donor card signator with many other MPs of the SNS. My support for this law is also examined through the amendment I submitted to Article 1. A bill that highlights, among other things, the development of medical conditions. This is very important, given that the current law governing this area, so the area of human cell and tissue transplantation, has not been defined in the best way and has arranged the conditions under which jobs such as donation, acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues are carried out. This draft law defines in a precise and clear way which health institutions can apply for operations in these areas, including any conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit. In one word, this law clearly defines who can carry out this activity, how it is carried out, the conditions that must be met and, which is very important, who and how oversees the implementation of this law. For all these reasons, I want to point out once again the full support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42094	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42095	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, all the legal solutions we are discussing these days, and of course the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues is another proof and another confirmation that Serbia is on track today and that the country with accelerated economic growth and development is on track. I have made an amendment to Article 1. The bill is because the quality and conditions of life of our citizens and the standard of living of our citizens are a feature of the overall economic development of every country. A significant role for the quality and conditions of our citizens' lives certainly has a system of health care. I will remind all Serbian citizens that the previous regime has shown total concern about the health care of our citizens. This is witnessed by the state of the health system we found in 2012, it was disastrous. I also remind Serbian citizens that most of Serbia's health institutions had non-functional toilets, i.e. non-working toilets, without talking about other things. It's completely different today. Today we are investing intensively in the health system. Today we have achieved fantastic results in the digitisation of the health system and in organ transplants, and in the case of reducing waiting time for oncological therapy and many, many other results that would enviate many countries in Europe and the world. Today Serbia is concerned about the health of its citizens. For the first time, we have provided jobs for the best graduates of medical professions. In this way we prevent the outflow of the best experts from our country, as well as adequate and quality health care for our citizens in the future. The bill on human cells and tissues that we are discussing today will result in a reduction in the waiting list for organ transplants, and the programmes for the promotion of transplants will awaken citizens' awareness and we will encourage our citizens to the most human human gesture, which is organ donation. Another advantage of the law, given that I am an economist, is that this legal solution will reduce expenditure in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and those expenditures relating to compensation for other people's care and assistance, because by transplanting the authorities, we will allow citizens who need it, normal life, to live the life they deserve. So, all that our government is carrying out, the Resort Ministry is in a function of improving the living conditions and quality of our citizens' lives, as well as increasing the standard of living for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42096	Thank you. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42097	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law on the agenda today is certainly the result of the detailed and dedicated work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the intention is to regulate the area of human cells and tissues according to the highest standards of medical science and practice. The proposal is designed to meet the needs imposed by this area of medicine, which offers great treatment opportunities, which develops intensively. It is also important to point out that the application of such a law will allow better conditions for the work of health institutions doing jobs in the fields of human cells and tissues. Today we can talk about improving conditions in the field of medicine, because it is evident that the responsible leadership in the Republic of Serbia in the last four years has stopped the sunfire of this area, and not only has it stopped such a situation, but the foundations have been laid in the construction of a modern and functional health system. In the last four years, large investments, large investments, reconstructions in the reconstruction of existing and construction of new infrastructure, supply of equipment to modernise health and certainly improve medical conditions have been recorded. An example of such practice is also recorded in the House of Health of Ub Municipality, from which I come, dedicated to the work and good co-operation of management in the health institution and management of the municipality, as well as cooperation at the republican level. At the beginning of this year, an investment was completed, i.e. the realization of a project worth 14 million dinars, where half of the funds were provided by the municipality, and half of the Public Investment Offices, including the construction and equipment of an auxiliary facility in the House of Health in Ubb. So investment in health care has been recognised as a priority and thus certainly provides better conditions for the lives of citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42098	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42099	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, and amendments, reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of medical protection. Article 1 provides that this bill regulates the conditions for achieving quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human use, the supervision of the implementation of this law and the performance of certain tasks of state administration in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of human cell and tissue activities, as well as for the human cell and tissue area covering the donation, acquisition, testing, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues by a living donor or dead person. The SNS health policy is based on the basic principles and values contained in international documents under the auspices of the World Health Organization. The main objectives of SNS health policy are to restore the population and stimulate all instruments of state and health policy, preserve and improve the health status of the population and strengthen the health potential of the nation, equal and fair access to health care for all citizens of Serbia, as well as improve health care, especially sensitive population groups, setting a patient at the centre of the health care system, the sustainability of the health system based on a clearly defined health planning and work policy, improving the functioning, efficiency and quality of the health system, while defining specific state programmes in the field of disease prevention, early detection and effective treatment. In the voting day, I will vote in favour of this bill, as well as the other laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42100	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42101	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, the Honorable People's MPs, the amendment I have submitted to Article 1 is further defined by Article 1. The Law on Human Cells and Tissues in terms of strengthening public health or national health, social action aimed at improving the health and quality of life and extending the lifetime of our country's entire population by promoting health, preventing disease or changing some other forms of health care. In particular, the basic provisions of this law lay down the conditions for achieving quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human use, as well as for the supervision of the implementation of this law and the performance of certain tasks of state administration in the field of human cells and tissues. The general principles of public health are, under one, the responsibility of the state and the health society in terms of establishing national priorities, which is exactly what we are doing with this Law on Cells and Tissues. Second, intersectoral multidisciplinary work, because the process contained in the Cells and Tissues Act includes the donation, acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, application of human cells and tissues in humans by a living donor or a dead person. The 2009 Transplantation of Cells and Tissues Act established an area of cells and tissues, but after the application of this law for six years, the lacks of applicable laws have been observed, as there is no recognition of the importance of the definition and arrangement of activity in the field of human cells and tissues for human application. So, this law establishes a high level of security and security in the field of human cells and tissues, a promotion of health involving the co-operation of several state sectors and more scientific disciplines and a developed partnership between the community and the health sector, which has special importance for health in this area. In the end, I must thank the Ministry of Health for having allocated significant resources for restoring and modernising Serbia's largest health home, which is the House of Health Nis, which now looks magnificent in addition to professional staff and equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42102	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42103	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister Loncar with his associates, the Leskovac General Hospital is the second largest hospital in Serbia. About 220,000 inhabitants of Jablanic County and 2017 were declared the best regional hospital, while General Hospital Director Dr Nebojsa Dimitrijevic was appointed manager of the year by the European Business Association and the Socrates Committee. As before, this year in March, Jura donated new instruments to the surgical department and ultrasound apparatus for the service of radiology, all in agreement with local self-government and the first man of the town of Leskovic, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, who often points out the republican institution in the first place. They have a special importance for new instruments for laparoscopic surgery, with the quality and number of minimal invasive procedures significantly increasing. The head of the laparoscopic surgery team is Dr. Predrag Ivanovic, current director of the General Hospital of Leskovac. Along with the head of anesthesia, general surgeons, instruments, modern trends are monitored, which points out to the first plan of quality and efficiency in treating surgical patients. For a long time for this team of bile bag and appendix operations are exclusively the subject of laparoscopic access to treatment. Also, a significant estimate of the weight, frontal wall and diagnostic procedures, as well as the treatment of venous ulcers work as minimal invasive procedures. These people remember, of course, the first teacher of Dr. Radovan Markov from Subotica, who, at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s, passed on his knowledge and skill to the woodworking surgeons. Today they have the unselfish help of surgeons Blago Djukanovic, KBC "Beige Hair" and Mladen Janic, General Hospital Pancevo, in training for laparoscopic colon surgery. This program is now under the auspices of the Ministry of Health and you, Minister Loncar. The programme is led personally by a leading European instructor, Professor Amjad Parvaise, from England, a proven friend of Serbian surgeons. The plan is also to co-operate with Prof. Dr. Bjelovic in the treatment of stomach hernias. These results of the laparoscopic team were derived from hard and dedicated work and learning. Regular visits to meetings, live monitoring and foreign courses are part of the team's activities. It also adds special quality to cooperation with our prominent doctors, Leskovcians from abroad. A meeting is scheduled for the end of July at the Leskovac General Hospital, which will exhibit two surgical topics from the mentioned area and Dr Predrag Andrejevic, a surgeon from Malta, as well as the president of the Maltese-Serbian Friendship Society. All of this together and especially through teamwork produced significant results and included the General Hospital of Leskovac in a series of recognizable precisely by results from the field of minimal invasive surgery. In the course of the installation of training equipment for young specialists and specialists for specialization, it is a laparoscopic pillar from 1999, which is refreshed with a new monitor and will serve as a means to acquire basic laparoscopic skills. We think that in this way we will dramatically change our approach to treating a large number of surgical patients in favour of this so dynamic branch, where robotics also takes an increasingly significant place. In the General Hospital of Leskovac we also particularly appreciate the contribution of the gastroenterological team led by Dr Saša Grgov. Finally, the positive trends are witnessed by intervening cardiology, modern haemodialysis, a large number of performed operations, artificial hip and knee installation, exceptional support for diagnostic services, as well as rapid and precise pathohistology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42104	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42105	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about health care, I have to and I want to mention the House of Health in Nis. This is a primary health care facility where the priority in the work is to improve preventive healthcare, in order to preserve and improve consumer health. He performs his work through the organization of 12 services. In addition to the central facility, he organizes his work in 65 health stations and hospitals in the city and rural areas. Employees in the House of Health Nis provide services to the population of the town of Nis, but also to surrounding municipalities for the level of primary health care services they are unable to provide. In 2017, the House of Health in Nis held a leading position in the primary health care field in southeastern Serbia. 5,400,000 services were provided for 260,000 inhabitants, which is 23% more than the plan. In the first half of 2018 more than 2,800,000 services were provided, which is 35% more than the plan for this period. The Nis Health Home records 1,800,000 visits on average each year. What also concerns improving health care is both the activity of directors and management, but also the employees of the House of Health in Nis, without which this institution could not function in such a good way. A number of preventive and promotional activities are organized, involving all the services of the House of Health. Good co-operation has been achieved with local self-government and numerous institutions in the city and the environment in the organization, as well as the implementation of projects such as "Let's Get Close to Patients", "Health for All", "Bazar of Health", "Open Door" and numerous actions on the health calendar. During 2017 more than 290 promotional activities were implemented, 200 of them organized in the rural area in 64 villages. More than 6,600 patients were examined during the campaign and more than 14,500 healthcare services were provided. The Youth Advisory Council has been increased as well as Glaucoma, Dementation, Depression and Diabetes Councils. Special attention should be given to the work of the Diabetes Council, the Developmental Advisory Centre, the Psychological Preparations of Pregnant Pregnant Pregnants and the Smoking Rehabilitation Tips. A major contribution to preventive work and numerous actions both in the facility and in the field was made by the Centre for Preventive Health Services. A very important visit was made in July 2017 when Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic visited final works on the construction of the House of Health as part of his official two-day visit to Nis. This is the first visit to the highest state level since the construction and release of the Niš Health House central facility. During his visit, President Aleksandar Vucic met with the organisation of work and staff structure, and he also had the opportunity to talk to patients who were currently receiving health care. The importance of health care provided by this institution, not only for the citizens of Nis, but for all of Southeast Serbia, is the very important support of the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will take this opportunity to support you, Minister, and thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42106	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42107	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, on the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 aimed at analysing the impact of the law on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The current Law on cell and tissue transplants, as well as sublegal acts stemming from the existing law, did not recognise the importance of defining and affecting jobs in human cell and tissue areas, as well as the conditions under which these jobs can be carried out, which include donations, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues, both from the living person and from cadver. The new law that we are discussing defines an institution that should be a human tissue bank, which will carry out tasks in the fields of processing, testing, distribution and application of human organs on the basis of clear criteria. The bill also prescribes a simplified procedure for issuing authorisations to health institutions for carrying out jobs in human cells and tissues, as well as the establishment of a single system from the mentioned area. The most important provision of this law defines and enables the application of organ and tissue transplants from cadavers and gives an opportunity to a large number of patients who were not able to perform or have difficulty performing basic activities due to the inability to find compatible donor organs. Using organs, cells and tissues that are healthy and functionally taken from cadavers, it will allow some people after a long series of years of dealing with diseases to start a normal and healthier life, as well as involving people with whom the transplant was carried out, with all other activities. At the same time, a less important thing than preserving human life is also a financial effect that would be removed after a transplant on a sick person who needed constant therapy during the period of maintaining health conditions. The law will also allow for a number of transplants in health institutions in the Republic of Serbia that have been done abroad so far. Due to all the positive effects the bill adopts, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal in the voting day, and I call on fellow MPs to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42108	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42109	The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, is an extremely significant law, or set of laws, which just shows that Serbia is on the right track, and Serbia is on the road to large steps. One of the laws which, behold, I am in the second term a National MP, who I claim and I am sure that even after a few years, ten years, I will be proud or perhaps proud of the law of all that we have voted on and will vote on in the future. I'm not a doctor, but I'm sure that if someone were human, they could be and if they weren't a doctor and they could understand, regardless of the level of education, the degree of life learning and the conditions in which they live. This law only has one goal, which is to help life and it is a law that all those who think well of Serbia, who think well of their citizens, simply have to support. This law has no alternative and as such is neither the EU law nor the law of any other state, this is the law of the Republic of Serbia, the law proposed by the Ministry of Health and this Government and thank you indeed for this law. This is the law of Serbian citizens, and as such I am sure they will have very high results precisely in helping those who need help most. All those who dispute and invent the reasons why this law should not be passed, let those who die and wait for the organs go around to explain to them why they do not support something that is essentially above all and only in order to respect life. It is impossible to forget some of the results that have been achieved in the previous period, but precisely the results that we will achieve by adopting this law will show that the Ministry of Health is on the right track and has passed one real law. My amendment, which I have submitted first of all, concerns medical services and I am sure that a set of laws that will be passed next week, with changes the amendments will bring, will raise those medical services to a higher level. What I would certainly ask the minister to do is to try to help the citizens of Šapac first of all, because, believe me, at this point I have information, which is official information, that in the House of Health "Dear LJocic" in Šapac, as of 1 August 2017 we have an employee veterinarian and that veterinarian was no less or less on the Western Serbian Council List, Nemanje Pajic, who is currently making a parliamentary majority in the town of Šapca Assembly and as such had to be employed, no less than in the House of Health "Dear LJocic" in Sapac. I ask you from the level of the ministry, as far as you are able, simply prevent abuses, and precisely the employment of a veterinary technician in the House of Health in Šapca also speaks of the very home of health and of Mayor Zelenović, who is simply all employment, and there is also an audit of employment in the city administration and all public enterprises by the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance. But I hope this is a unique example at the Ministry of Health. It is comforting that it is not on the budget of the Ministry of Health, because it certainly did not receive approval from either the Ministry of Health or the Committee for the Employment of Veterinary Technician in Sapco. But what is not good, which is that it has just spent the management of the city administration, led by Nebojsa Zelenovic, who also in the fivem-euro abuse processes in the budget for 2015 on the purchase of votes in the 2016 pre-election campaign and a series of malversions. But since we are in the realm of laws that treat the Ministry of Health above all, I ask you as Minister to take appropriate steps to prevent the abuse of this species. What I will do for the end is to help those who need help and who are immeasurable, and above all, the result and help is to extend their lives and that is why it gives me and the members of the SNS parliamentary group, but also to other fellow Members of the Assembly the right, but also the obligation, to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42110	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42111	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill on human cells and tissues, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the progress of medical institutions." Medicine is a very rapidly advanced and intensive area, so the adoption of the Bill on Cells and Tissues is of paramount importance, in order to provide for the latest achievements in our system and to enable new treatment methods to be applied. This creates conditions for this area to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, to specify and improve conditions and to bring the legislative framework in this area into line with the legal solutions of the European Union. The current law has not defined jobs and conditions under which these jobs can be carried out in the fields of human cells and tissues, which relate to the donation, acquisition, testing, preservation, storage and application of human cells and tissues. Also, there was no clear definition which institution could be a human tissue bank. This has caused poor years of practice in health institutions. All these shortcomings have been removed by the proposal for a cell and tissue law. Therefore, given that the draft law is based on the highest standards of practice and science and a positive effect that results in the possibility of treatment, and this bill makes a significant contribution to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and to the progress of medical institutions. I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted in Article 1. The bill and that is the objective of the amendment that I propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42112	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42113	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the Government, a respected colleague, speaks in principle about what this legislative proposal refers to and speaks about the conditions for raising the quality and safety of human cells and tissues, as well as the affairs of the state administration related to this area. The law also defined the aim of the law, which says it is to establish a high level of safety and security in the area of human tissue cells, but also all those steps that precede that goal, such as the definition and establishment of a human cell bank, the introduction of a single information system in the area of human cells, clear inspection supervision and other elements necessary to achieve the objective. Indeed one large and serious job from the point of view of medical work, but also from the point of view of the work of the state administration. It is good that in the field of medicine we follow modern trends and modern standards of the developed part of the world and hardly anyone in Serbia can have anything against this bill unless it is malicious or it is a great populist. We know how difficult the work you're doing is, Mr. Minister. We support you at your job, but there's a really hard job ahead of you. Why? Well, in order to provide in medicine and this quality and safety that you are talking about in article 1, it is necessary, firstly, to provide and, as a prerequisite for all of this, a serious medical institution, and given everything that was waiting for you when you took office in this government, along with then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, that is even harder. We all know in this hall that we are sitting, whether we come from the government or from the opposition, what are the conditions that you have met, but all we know is that we need to know Serbia's citizens as well. I'll just say some things for them and give an example. In fact, up until a little less than two years ago in northern Serbia, the government was carried out by those belonging to the DOS, today's so-called. The Alliance for Serbia has well defined them by the prime minister "the alliance for herself". It has not been two years since they left northern Serbia, i.e. that ruling structure. The example of the projects they led in medicine is Kamenica 2, a project that was designed as a hospital where 1,400 people will be treated, how much of the estimate that at an annual level in Vojvodina is affected by cancer. The construction of Kamenica 2 begins in 2008 with a plan to be completed in 2009, the original value of the project 16,000,000 euros. What's an epilogue? The construction takes place until 2016. The project, meanwhile, has been magically blown to 35,000 euros, 19,000,000 more. We lost seven years, we lost 19,000,000, we probably lost thousands of lives, because people didn't make it to that hospital. You completed this work at the end of 2016 with the Provincial Government, i.e. the Regional Secretariat and indeed all congratulations. You've done a lot of business in the field of a team of medical institutions. I'll say something later, that is, on tomorrow and Saturday, for example, where I come from. I mean, I'm going back to the beginning, that it's a really difficult job in front of you, and my amendment as a third position to this member is a symbolic reminder of the weight of the work you're doing and of the recognition for everything you've done in the field of medicine, along with the then prime minister, today's president and all the governments he's led so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42114	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42115	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, the need to pass a new law is that the area of application of human cells and tissues in humans is based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, because it is an area which, above all, develops intensively, and as a priority, offers great treatment opportunities. In order to develop this area according to the highest standards, it is necessary to define a register of stem cell donors, which enables the finding of incompatible donors and the provision of transplant cells, which has not been clearly defined by the existing law, the new law regulates activities in this area, will contribute to the faster achievement of healthcare in this area. The new law also prescribed a simplified procedure for issuing authorisations to healthcare institutions in the field of human cells and tissues, and what is also very important is the establishment of a single information system in this area. This is primarily a good and significant law, as its adoption will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving. Today, by the way, we had a chance to hear the worst and darkest campaign run against everything good in Serbia. We've heard a great deal of ignorance at the same time, but also a great amount of hate and there's no telling what's more dangerous than that. All this says is that the health system in Serbia, which has been destroyed for years, is better than ever and that all that is invested in the health system can only be a healthy, strong, fiscally consolidated country, a country with a strong economy like Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42116	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no way for those born to avoid death. That way doesn't exist, but it can be delayed, of course, with good health care. In the last few years, we have progressed 14 places on the European scale. We were 34 of the 34 countries in 2012. It's best known by those who are not here right now, who are guessing for some new mandates. Well, dear citizens, when they're already guessing on new mandates, look at how they use these first. These empty benches best talk about how much they were even interested in it. A built house can be criticized, but not everyone can build it. Some of us here have been criticized, some of us haven't come at all. You didn't come to me a little bit more worried. I am more grateful for the open criticism than for the secret criticisms, for the arrangements with the foreign forces that you negotiate just to share some mandates or to take over the government on the street. In these three years, I was at the RFZO Management Board in front of the farmer's insurance company and I am proud of that period because I was part of the system that bought new equipment, because I was part of the system that ended in Kamenica 2, which was supposed to be finished in 2010 or 2009, but was only finished after the change in 2016 and equipped. They lost several times six months to one year to obtain linear accelerators, because they openly simmered and staged public procurement and took dozens of people waiting for radiation in Sremska Kamenica to die. Just because they haven't finished it in six years, the question is how many people have paid with the lives of their neglect and their intention for the open corruption that has cost me, I think, 12m euros more than what was planned. So progress was obvious. I am not saying that it can't be better and I believe it, and I want us to do better in the future, and that we are making as much progress on that European list as possible, and that we are making as much money as possible for the health centres, for the hospitals, for the clinical centres. When we earn and make as much GDP as possible, then, as a percentage, health care will remain more, and therefore, for the salaries of health care professionals, which is what I want most. There will be money to increase these personal incomes in proportion to their merits that certainly exist in the health care of the Republic of Serbia. I mean, in the end, dear citizens, don't vote for those who don't use their mandates, and obviously here these yellow comedians don't come to the sessions at all, but behind their backs they're guessing about some other mandates that need to be paid and personal income for the unhappiness that's obvious. Behind them are works and misdeeds that these and future generations will try to pay off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-19-1.u42118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this would be the end of today's work. We continue work tomorrow, so on Friday 20th of July, starting at 10.00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 74 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Gordana Comic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for Law on Human Cells and Tissues. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the context of the search in particular on the 1st item of the agenda – the proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues, the sittings are attended by Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Đukić, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, Prof. Dr. Ferenc Ficko and Dr. Meho Mahmutović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Dragan Vujic, Deputy Assistant Minister of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, Director of Biomedicine, Dr. Jelena Janković, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Health and Dr. Aleksandra Vlačić and Zlata Žizić, advisers at the Ministry of Health. We're going back to work. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Ljiljana Malušić submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
