ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31897	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the provision of Article 3 is a tax-listed list of the objectives which are to be achieved through the adoption of the proposed law, which I have no doubt that will be realised in the next period. The proposed amendment concerns the addition of Article 3 by adding point 10, declaring another objective relating to ensuring the development of the Republic of Serbia with a special aspect of the rights of displaced persons. Starting with the fact that displaced persons are one of the most endangered categories of population, whose problems manifest themselves in all spheres of life, the Government of the Republic of Serbia offers its active measures firm determination and political will to offer, together with other state bodies, comprehensive and transparent ways to all refugees and displaced persons, assistance and concrete solutions so that they can make their own and best decisions on their future. In order to address the huge problems of this sensitive category of people, the Republic of Serbia has made great efforts and resources to ensure the acceptance, care and integration of refugees and displaced persons with the help of the international community. According to the existing legal framework, refugees and displaced persons are provided with acceptance, temporary accommodation and food assistance to the most bitter persons who cannot provide themselves with means to live. Appropriate health care, certain social protection rights and the protection of children and families, as well as the right to education and employment, has been provided. In the context of a confirmation of the efforts of the relevant state authorities, I would say that Serbia's budgets allowed more than 5,700 refugees and internally displaced persons to be taken care of in 171 units of local self-government, including municipalities in KIM, with a total of around 5,000 packages, construction materials and about 1,000 rural houses with a garden. (President: Mr Veljkovic, bring the end. ) It also allows for more than 4,700 families and internally displaced persons to be strengthened economically.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31898	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Please welcome colleagues Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31899	Dear Chairman, assistant ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in line with the arguments I have already raised in some of my previous exhibitions, this amendment would like to include as one of the objectives of the bill's proposal and ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of a national qualification framework is primarily important to know what our economy needs. Many countries, including Serbia, have turned to the digital economy as a key element for speeding up productivity development, but also for economic growth itself. The National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia will solve the problem of overlapping qualifications, then, as I said, introduces the concept of lifelong learning where individuals unbound for years, gender, national or religious orientation will be available to businesses. In addition to formal recognition of informal education as an important source of education and skills. In this way, economic operators will be able to identify and hire individuals necessary to improve their business through simple insight into the single qualification system. By reforming and investing in education, we invest in the future because 21st century is a century of knowledge and information and this is the only way we can achieve the desired economic growth. Economic fiscal policy in the previous period has established the stability of public finances and the overall macroeconomic environment. The growth trend in economic activity has been observed, leading to an accelerated economic recovery with a drastic reduction... (President: Bring the end of my colleague Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... fiscal deficit. I therefore call on my colleagues to support the Serbian government's efforts and give their support to the proposed laws, as well as my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31900	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31901	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Nis these days protests have been organised by MPs who resigned to the parliamentary post to blow on a whistle and by a former prime minister who only wants to lead Nisli back into error. I need to talk about it and remind myself of some things. In 2003, when Zoran Zivkovic was in Nis, he was owned by the state. Why wasn't he fighting back then for this airport to be owned by the city? However, in 2010, it really passes into the property of the city when a contract that was known to be impossible to meet is concluded. The so-called so-called The democratic government didn't care that these obligations were measured by billions of dinars. So much for who's responsible for bringing the city into bankruptcy, because Nis has to help the government of the Republic of Serbia today. Since 2012, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been helping and investing large funds, so today the airport can boast of more than 330,000 passengers. The needs of the airport have now increased and the city of Nis has no 20m euros to invest in the tower, new equipment and expansion of the terminal building by 2021. For further development of the airport, it is important to move into state ownership, which will prepare funds in the budget and invest directly. It remains to resist the manipulations of the opposition in Nis, to remember what lies have been placed upon us during the Democratic Party's power and not to let them take away our ability to further develop as a great city. Because they took enough of us when they were in power in Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31902	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31903	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the ministry, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, where the objectives of this law are defined. The town of Kragujevac has been watching all your statements for the past few months, Minister. The town of Kragujevac in the area of education in recent months has negative attention from the Republic of Serbia. The Ministry of Education is not only there to school and educate, but at the same time it is as a large employer and participates in the labour market. When you have violated the principles of functioning in one part, or segment of higher education, then the labour market doesn't work either. It's completely contrary to the interests of society. Of course we've been in the interest of interest, and today we are, and somehow aside, the information remains crucial to the functioning of your ministry. When you invest fourm euros in the town of Kragujevac in the past few years, thanks to the Serbian government and local administration, in the reconstruction of all schools, then that is what this government is about to highlight. In the town of Kragujevac in the part of the town, which is on its way to the King, 50,000 citizens had no sports hall in elementary schools, a dozen elementary schools in Serbia's fourth largest city during rainy and winter days. The government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to commend Minister Knezevic, made a decision every year to build a sports hall with subsidies and activities from the local government. So in 2017 we finished one hall, in 2018 we started a new one, and in 2019 we will build another. When I listen to my colleagues' investments, then I cannot help but realize that Serbia's future in the field of education will be bright.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31904	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31905	Dear Chairman, I'm in Article 3. The bill proposed adding point 10 to the bill, which reads: "Providing overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the stability of the dinar course". Political and financial stability is the key to the stability of the dinar course, and all this goes on to economic development. The arrival of foreign investors, the opening of new jobs, and the support of a domestic economy that works and works. Support for domestic economy from the government level of the Republic of Serbia certainly is not lagging behind, but local self-government should take part in this, practically local self-government being a partner to the Serbian government in support of the economy. I have an example of local self-government in Bujanovac, which is doing everything in its power to choke and shut down the economy, and how a certain number of people are doing, and they get paid on a regular basis. We have an example of Bujanovska Banja, which has a problem with local self-government in terms of monitoring services to a public-communal company, which at a monthly level is about 200,000 dinars. The public-community company invoices this amount on the basis of the area, not on the basis of the amount of services provided. We're going to have a situation where, on this basis, we're going to have a blocked gyro-account of the Special Rehabilitation Hospital somewhere worth 20 million dinars. The Working Group was formed by the municipality council of Bujanovac, which would have been tasked with considering the problem and proposing a solution to the problem. The task force consists of one representative of local self-government, one representative of the CAP and one representative of the Bujanovska Banja, but since November, as the working group was formed, it has not met until today. I want to make this an example of how and how local self-government in Bujanovac supports the economic and economic development of one of the most undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31906	Based on what, colleague Sarovic? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31907	So, Mr. Arsic, you have violated Article 27 and Article 107, and we are when you chair the witness that it is possible and what is not possible and we are witnessing that, depending on the day, the time of day, your mood, your speaker, are changing the archaics that you act on. I'll remind you that what's the agenda point right now and that this agenda point has absolutely nothing to do with the stability of the dinar course, has nothing to do with the Bujanovska Banja, has nothing to do with taking out the trash there and the public enterprises, and it's just scandalous to let time be spent in this way, to discuss and not to mention any of the previous speakers at any point. And that wouldn't be a problem if you had that archaic for all, if you were the same, if the MPs of the opposition could spend their time the way they think they should. These amendments, in my opinion, and especially given the government's opinion, that they were not logically related to the members they were submitted to, had to be rejected. You have introduced a new principle that any amendment can be submitted to any member of the law. He can do anything. Once upon a time, while I think it was still more kept accounts of these amendments being rejected. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31908	Comrade Sarovic, I am pleased to see you again in the Assembly, since you were not yesterday and a good part of the day before yesterday, welcome, because if you were here, you would know that all MPs could speak as well as colleagues from the SNS, from every Parliament club. I don't think the stories of political dialogue being conducted here in the National Assembly should be burdened solely by personal insults and violation of the dignity of the MPs. That's my opinion formed 10, 12, 15 years ago. Nemanja Sarovic: Even while you were a radical. That's right. Thus, MPs have the right to have certain freedoms in explaining their amendment. Also, don't burden me with whether the amendments should be rejected or not, it's not about the chairman or the president of the National Assembly. There are working bodies that take care of it, you have representatives in those working bodies and let them plead. The third thing, I also don't transfer to your parliamentary group, I don't think it's entirely legitimate and I will support every parliamentary group, you have submitted amendments to both the title and the title of the law, etc. It is your right and I will never challenge you, at least I will never challenge you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Yes) Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Grubor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31909	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for the state to survive and develop, the people must be healthy and educated. As education begins from small legs, by learning the native language and our letter, we must work hard to preserve both. I'm proud to share my legacy with the greats of our literacy, science, art, history, beginning with Vuk Karadzic, Jovan Cvijic, Mice Popovic and many others. The local self-government of the town of Loznica recognized the importance of preserving and promoting the native language and Cyrillic letter, the cultural history of our people and the programme cooperation with other relevant organisations in our country, as well as in the diaspora. In honor of the creator of our alphabet in the hometown of Vuk Karadzic in Trsic, a magnificent educational and cultural centre of 3,100 square meters with 40 accommodation units and 144 beds, two congress halls with the most modern equipment, an internet hall with six computers was built. The special importance of this centre is that it is planned to organise numerous events for students of primary and secondary schools from all over our Republic, such as the summer school of creative writing, fine speech, acting, museumology, media and digital literacy, art colonies, seminaries for educational workers, gatherings of birthday students, the stay of students from all over the world. Total funds are 320m dinars, of which local self-government invested 60% of the funds and the rest of the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the Ministry of Education and Culture. I thank Mr. Šarčević and Minister Vukosavljevic who opened this beautiful facility in September of last year to 84. The wolf's assembly and they're convinced of the justification for the funds invested. (President: You are bringing an end, colleague Grubor. ) That is our Number Two Petnica, said Minister Sarcevic at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31910	Thank you. Mr. Sarcevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31911	I just need to talk to you, since I was away, to say hello to the students. Today is April 4th, student day, and I was able to speak to them in a small hall on my behalf and greet them. To supplement my colleague, we are also working on the third station of excellence, so after Petnica and Trsic, which is Avala, so the Centre for Environmental Research, the project is completed for the White Church, there will be construction for geosciences and we have the whole project for next year. This brings Serbia into line with rare European countries that pay great attention to scientific thought and youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31912	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31913	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Mr. Sarčević, distinguished guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, defines the objectives of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia and in Article 3. The proposal for NOKS law is added to point 10, which reads "the provision of overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving health conditions". The establishment of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is defined by miles, i.e. the space of qualifications which, as we know, covers the purpose, objectives, principles, level and type of qualifications, the way in which qualifications are acquired, the establishment of descriptories of the levels of qualifications, bodies and organisations, as well as the provision of the quality of NOKS. In order to make domestic qualifications easier recognised and recognised in the European frameworks, the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia needs to be established first and then compared to the European Qualifications Framework. By linking the National Qualifications Framework with the European Qualifications Framework, there is a easier understanding and interpretation of qualifications among different countries in the education and health system of Europe. This is why the qualifications framework in the European higher education area is contained in the Bologna process under which classes take place at the medical schools in Serbia. The Bologna Process, as we know, is a joint declaration by European ministers, educated and signed in Bologna in April 1999 and refers to a reform of higher education, which includes the acquisition of knowledge from the field of medicine according to all standards. (President: Bringing the end, colleague Rancic. ) For these reasons, it is not surprising that Serbia has joined the Eurotransplant membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31914	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Studenka Kovacevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers, the main point of my address during this debate is the projects you have launched, including the 21st-century School project. This project involves innovation, creativity and applied knowledge. It's a new kind of teaching that requires new technologies. According to this principle, students can finally create something, not only to learn, but to use theoretical knowledge and show their own innovation. The students themselves show great enthusiasm for this principle of teaching and say this is how they practice concentration, patience and precision. When we encourage children to create, we can expect that one day they will be successful in whatever area they are defined for. All successful business people have also had working habits and a desire for success in early childhood. It is our obligation, apart from a quality environment in terms of well equipped school facilities and a good economic environment in the student country, to train students to work. For too long, we told the children that business would wait for them in the public and state sectors. We must insist on the private sector, for the sake of our own future and for the future of this country. Of course, it's not just an obligation of enlightenment, it's an obligation for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31916	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31917	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have tried to contribute to our amendments to make this law better, to make the discussion better, more content and to show what the SNS programme is about education, when it comes to Serbia's future and when it comes to the future of our citizens. I hope that during the discussion in principle and in particular, the citizens had the opportunity to see what we did in the previous period and what we intend to do as SNS in the period ahead. That things go well for the citizens and for Serbia speak both the headlines of our media these days and the previous four, five years, which is – one factory, another, third, comes from Germany, Austria. Here, you saw the other day that IMT was going to start its production, so "Meita" started building another factory, a job for another 1,100 people. These are all the results achieved by the SNS in the previous period, over 70 factories for four years. It is these factories and these investors who would not have come if there were no qualified labour force, and qualified labour means that these people, these young people who are employed came from quality educational institutions, from better than it was in the previous period. The Serbian Progressive Party is this way, opening factories, modernising education and education, preparing young people for those challenges that await them in the 21st century, so that it continues to work in the future and all for the sake of the interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31918	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31919	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 to the National Qualifications Framework Act. The law adds point 10) which reads "providing overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability". The proposed amendment further defines the objectives of the National Qualifications Framework. In order to achieve the country's comprehensive development, it is necessary to pay greater attention to the development of innovation entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, family business and self-employment and creation of a new business. All those who start a new business can count on the exemption from paying contributions to compulsory social security and income tax during the first two years of their business. The tax exemption applies to the entrepreneur himself and to the maximum of nine new employees in his company. This gives a significant boost to development in Serbia's entrepreneurship and helps business begin to get through the first two years of their work successfully, and the goal is certainly to motivate them, to immediately start operating in legal flows, which is not the case now. Also, one-time self-employment subsidies of 180-220 thousand dinars, by category of interested persons, are significant encouraging measures that the state is targeting to motivate the unemployed, to start their own business and thus contribute to the country's comprehensive development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31920	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 3 of this Law, namely the objectives of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, it is really important that one of these objectives is specifically related to increasing our country's infrastructure capacity. With my colleagues from the Traffic Committee, I've had the opportunity to go through the work on Corridor 10 and personally see what the demands are, when it comes to the field, when it comes to the intensity of the work, and indeed this visit has made a strong impression on me. Such large projects, of course, depend on the qualifications of those who work on them. The directions that connect us to the countries in the environment, I have had the opportunity to speak in previous discussions, and now I would like to mention the shares concerning the internal traffic of the Republic of Serbia. All traffic measurements show that Belgrade-Cačak-Pojate-Belgrade is one of the most burdensome in our country and I am really happy that there is already a project to build so-called. A moravian corridor that would connect Chachak and Poyate. There are about 500,000 inhabitants of our country living in the area, operating 21,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. We have 20 monasteries, 10 popular destinations of Banja tourism and it is important to build this corridor and thus improve and promote the potential of this part of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31922	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31923	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the City of Leskovac is an example of good practice in several areas, the first city in Serbia to agree its defence plan with the plan of defence of the Republic of Serbia. Another city of success and a list of illegally built objects. The city was also praised by the Citizens' Protectors for contributing to the development of all forms of accessibility in the territory of the city, and by the Alliance of Blind Serbia, a thank-you note for its outstanding contribution and for improving conditions for the lives of blind and impaired persons. Leskovac is also an example of good practice when it comes to social protection, which is why we are the second city in Serbia, at the height of the dedicated funds, defined by the Ministry of Labour by local self-government to improve and develop social protection services. Leskovac is the only city outside the Vojvodina area to receive the award of "Golden Key" at the Fifth Danube Business Forum, as a local self-government, which has excellent results behind it, in the economic, economic and cultural promotion of its city. The mayor of Leskovci Goran Cvetanovic was elected for the second time as a member of the National Alliance for Local Economic Development Management Board, as well as the president of the Assembly, the Centre for Development of the Jablanic and Pcinj County. Leskovac for the third time takes an important place in the capital of towns and municipalities. At the end of 2016, the town of Leskovac achieved another major success, when it renewed the regional certificate of a favourable special environment, with the highest rate of compliance with the 91.4% criteria so far, increasing the chances of new investors arriving.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31924	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31925	To Article 3. I proposed an amendment to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on state administration. With SNS coming to power and forming the government under the leadership of Aleksandar Vukic, the first government was created to deal seriously with many years of accumulated problems left over from all previous regimes. The particular task that the government has done is fiscal consolidation and the introduction of order into public finances and the implementation of multi-annual dubiosis and deficits that we have been in until then. The government has turned into a surplus and a framework has been created for investing funds in education, as well as for linking education and economy through dual education. Knowledge production must have the effect of equipping it into something material, a particular product that is the main export resource of our country. That kind of production in the direction of knowledge, export, provides money. The current policy dealing with the export of concrete knowledge in grants could not provide for development, neither economy nor society in general. It is the policy run by the current government that ensures that the process drains knowledge, turns it into an inflow and uses it for production purposes. The National Qualifications Framework, which achieves the ambience of finding young people with the knowledge to be used as the most important resource for producing things in the Republic of Serbia, which will be further exported and will provide funds for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31926	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31927	Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the amendment refers to Article 3 which I add point 10) which reads: "Providing overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on reducing social differences". Thanks to responsible, economic policy, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the previous period, the economy has been placed on healthy feet and long-term GDP growth has been ensured. In the next period, we expect sustainable GDP growth, based on investment growth, above all, on increasing exports of goods and services, as well as reducing the share of public expenditure and current transactions deficits in GDP. It is important to point out that the change in the model of economic growth instead of borrowing and consumption that was once the main drivers of the Serbian economy, today, is now based on sustainable sources, primarily on exports and investments. Speaking of investments, over the past six years, thanks to the good government and our President Alexander Vukic, 60 factories have been opened and over 170,000 people have been employed. We have reduced the unemployment rate from 27% to 13%, with a tendency to make that percentage 5% in a few years, which is the European average. As far as social justice is concerned, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, social justice is one of the basic principles. Good social policy can simultaneously contribute to economic growth, to protect people from poverty, to serve as an economic stabiliser. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is prosperity for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which means a combination of economic social protection, quality education, which gives everyone equal chances of living. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31928	The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31929	What has always encouraged me is when I see a good and thorough plan coming true, when I notice synergy in the work of the ministries and when not all the dead letter remains on paper, but the good proposals are applied in practice, a really good system of success is seen in the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Industry. The proposals of Minister Nedimovic and Mr. Prime Minister Knezevic are certainly sensitive and noticeable in the territory of Zrenjanin town. Recently in the town of Zrenjanin, the heads of the city signed a co-operation agreement with our domestic company MPZ "Agrar" which will continue operations in the northwestern industrial zone of Elemir and will form a large freezer, the largest in the Balkans, a capacity of 15,000 tonnes and employ 200 people. This investment is worth 20m euros. I'm really glad that when I see domestic companies thinking about investing, not only in industry, but also in agriculture, and they have the ambition to create their own fruit so far, to buy fruit and vegetables from smaller producers and land, in a quality way store them and then export them. I therefore submit this amendment which will certainly contribute to the development of Serbia's comprehensive economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31930	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31931	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected MPs, the integration of NOX with the European Qualifications Framework or the EQF are also creating conditions for connecting and co-operation on security and defence. Security is the most important segment of one country's policy planning and overall development. It is therefore important to look at all aspects of the situation in which Serbia is present. The Republic of Serbia is achieving a high degree of co-operation with EU Member States and institutions within the framework of a common security and defence policy of the EU. She's actively involved in almost all of her districts. In this way, it confirms its strategic commitment to EU membership and shows that it is a reliable and responsible partner who wants to provide his contribution to peace and security through co-operation with the EU. At the same time, cooperation improves our operational capacity and strengthens interoperability with EU members and provides support to the domestic dedicated industry and research potentials. The EU's common security and defence policy has been established to affirm the role of the EU as an important global factor with recognizable foreign policy and civilian military resources in crisis management, conflict prevention and international peace and security. It is an integral part of the EU's comprehensive approach to crisis management, which includes political, diplomatic, legal, development, trade and economic instruments in addition to civilian and military capacities. This wide range of instruments and resources needed to effectively manage crises puts the EU in a unique position compared to other international actors. In the end, I will only quote the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who said -- Serbia in the defence and security sector, but also in the training of officer personnel, wants to take over the region's leadership position, given its geographical position, skills, military training and the reputation of military education in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31932	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31933	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 3. I also proposed that the 10th point be added – Ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving public health. The fact is that the essence of the health care system, the basis of the health care system, are personnel, equipment and space. Unfortunately, through everything our country's been going through for decades, and in particular, I mean the terrible sanctions and wars that we've been through, the health care system has gone through the goal. All three of these segments I was talking about were abandoned to the limit. I would like to point out that back a few years ago the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a huge effort to significantly improve the situation in all three of these segments. I'm not just talking about that equipment we got back two, three years ago, which is the most modern generation of new equipment, I'm not talking about new hospitals and clinics whose witnesses are opening up in Serbia, but I'm going to talk about personnel. In the last year alone, 2,000 young doctors, technicians, and nurses were given a chance to express their knowledge. Thank God we did, because we had a terrible statistical record, that the average life span of people employed in health care was about 55 years. If we hadn't made this move last year as a state, the question is what consequences we would have come up with in the coming years. That is why I fully support this law, because it will introduce order into Serbia's human policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31934	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31935	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, without quality education and education, has no accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which our President Vukic conducted in 2014. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember well that just now President Vukic and former Minister Verbic were the first initiators of introducing dual education into our education system, although the party of the former regime was against, and our minister, Sarcevic, stepped deeply into its realization. Had former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic had at least formal qualifications and acquired knowledge from medical sciences, he would not have produced a vaccine of yogurt and water. He vaccinated the chickens in the village of Pukovac, the chickens died, took the money, and he ran away. Dear Members, especially in our education and education system, we must pay attention to the pedagogy of patriotism, peace and regional stability, which is the alpha and omega of our accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. We are giving full support to the state leadership of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the President in the direction of peace policy and regional stability as the basic precondition for our economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31936	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31937	Thank you, Your Honor. Like all my previous amendments to this law, and the amendment to Article 3 that defines the objectives of the law refers to sustainable development. It is another attempt by me to support through this law the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in economic sustainable development. That's what the 2030 UN agenda targets are saying, which I have repeatedly mentioned during this exhibition. What are the goals? The objectives are industry, innovation and infrastructure. Support the development of domestic technology, then research into innovation, including ensuring a suitable environment for industrial diversification policies and the added value of goods. Exactly what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does in the previous and in this term, and this law says that we are on the right track, and I, through my amendment, wanted to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31938	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the messenger of the people, Tian the Davidite.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31939	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, development of education and integration with the needs of the industry market are key factors for the country's economy. Investment in vocational education and training speeds up the country's economic development. Our government and ministry are working intensively to improve education in Serbia, and one way is to introduce dual education through which schools connect with employers, local self-government units, chambers of commerce, the National Employment Service and other institutions. Regional co-operation has overcome the initial objective of stabilising conflict areas and has grown into constructive co-operation that is seen in working on common objectives at various levels and in various forms. Serbia has done a lot in the past to attract foreign investors, which also confirms our position on the Doing Business List of the World Bank. It is important that countries in the region learn from each other and face challenges together, as the region's common strategic goal is to attract more investment for regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31940	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31941	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 3 that I have submitted further defines the objectives of the National Qualification Framework of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of judicial institutions. Serbia's state is seriously working to improve the efficiency of the judiciary and judicial institutions. In addition, the fact that a project to improve the efficiency of the judiciary has halved the number of cases in Serbian courts. When the project was launched in courts, there were around 1.4 million cases older than two years. The new law on enforcement and security adopted in 2015, which began to apply from 1 July 2016, was an opportunity to bring a significant number of these cases to an end, but before that it was necessary to qualify them and further process them. The project team managed to reduce the number of executive cases from 1.4 million to 655,000 in 30 courts across the country by 18 months. During the project, more than 130,000 incorrect and incomplete data were corrected in 20 courts, while over 1,900 judges, judicial assistants and court staff were trained during the project. The project brought improvement in alternative dispute resolution and allowed electronic data exchange between more than 10 judicial and other institutions. The project has resolved one of the important aspects of judicial reform, which is to improve the efficiency of the judicial system. Two goals have been achieved, the system has become more efficient, a large number of Serbian citizens have been given the opportunity to resolve their cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31942	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here is counterpart Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31943	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome Mr. Secretary, his associates and all his dear colleagues. My amendment concerns improving health care in the framework of ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of the National Qualifications Framework should be to provide a standard of qualifications based on the needs of the labour market and society in general. The so-called NOKS should address the problem of lack of compliance with labour market offers and demand and address the unregulated qualification system. A link between the world of education and the labour market should be made. The social development plan goes with the development of the health system. Healthy citizens are the cornerstones of every country's development. Health is national capital. The state is obliged to provide health care to all citizens on every level. The government of Aleksandra Vukic has found the following health resources – human resources that have been disbursed could not be perfected and these human resources should be constantly developed in the Republic of Serbia. The health ministry during the government of Alexander Vukic gave four thousand specializations. The human factor that is the most important factor in health care and health care at all is the improvement of health workers. The second item that the government found were medical institutions that were in a terrible state, these are buildings and equipment. I just have to say, not recently, in 2012, in a Saturday hospital in the chest ward, patients were covering themselves with horse blankets.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31944	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My colleague, Pussycat.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31945	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens, I have submitted an amendment to this law, which is set out in point 3., the 10th point reads - Ensuring the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to international co-operation. I believe that the international aspect of this law certainly deserves to be listed as one of the objectives of this law. I also believe that regardless of the ominous comments we have been able to hear these days in the Assembly, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia certainly deserve all the praise for the system and for the improvement of the education system rather than for criticism as some here have said these days. In the town of Kraljev, where I come from, the settlement Ribnica where almost 20,000 inhabitants live, soon begins building a new school. The St. Sava elementary school at the site of an old assembly school built in the 1960s and used by the license, I must stress, expired decades ago. No one has dared or remembered to build that school as well as many others, of course not, so on behalf of the citizens of Kralje and Ribnica, but also on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, I owe a great debt of gratitude to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you ministers, or to your ministry, for seeing the importance of such an object and such a school, and for entering into the construction of all of it, in addition to the reconstructions and rehabilitations of many schools in which children today can certainly learn much better. I call on fellow Members to support my proposal in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31946	The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title above Article 4. Proposal for a NOX law. However, I must remind you that we have two more laws in the field of education and as things are now, we will not be able to say a word about them. So this whole discussion, the united debate ends with this Nox Act. The fact that all day and all these days of this debate we have been listening to praises from the MPs of the ruling majority at the expense of this government and at the expense of the ministers is not proof that the state of education is the way it should be. Certainly the state of education is still at an unsatisfactory level and there is much to be done to make it the way it should be. The fact that we have a large number of schools, a large number of universities, a large number of students and students who have high grades, that is not necessarily proof that they have great knowledge. I'll illustrate it with one example. It's the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade, and we all know it's one of our most prestigious universities. Two years ago, it seems to me, an entrance exam was organised at the university and the committee for the assembly of assignments in the entrance exam was consciously giving a slightly harder task than usual. About 1200 candidates, about two candidates in one place, and of 1200 candidates in the first place, only one candidate managed to do all hundred points, or complete exam tasks, which was less than one. Imagine, that one candidate wasn't a werewolf. The ranking list, among the top 20, also lacked any Vukovac, which means that the estimates and rewards that follow from it do not necessarily mean that there is absolutely adequate knowledge behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31948	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Boytich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31949	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't know if I share a sense of helplessness or whether I'm part of lost time or if I'm telling an empty story to the extent that I adhere to an amendment to a simple technical law with 54 members and which doesn't deserve this kind of discussion. I wanted to talk, I'm not against the amendment, but also other laws in this sphere. I was looking forward to the discussion by sharing at least these amendments, and we've wasted our time on one ordinary law. It's almost the tenth hour of discussion, and we're not going to say a word about these laws. Mr. Minister, I want to speak to you. I know you've been in this business for a long time. We're about a generation. We know all the stages and trials education has been going through in these two, three countries where our work résumés took place. But you had one handicap, which is that you came to the workplace, and I underline the words - to the workplace, which was previously emptied to you, but only in this part of the job, the place is not normal. But it's your call, it's your choice, and we're here to criticize you, but it's reasoned, open and in a cultural way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31950	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? Col. Comic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31951	Thank you. What the Montipittons would say - and now something completely different. So, an amendment that has not been accepted because it is said that the solution is more celery, unlike any amendments whose excellent arguments and arguments we have heard, which are not accepted by the government because they are not in line with the concept of the law. We'll learn a lot here during this debate. I'm sorry that the Law on Electronic Administration and Geospace Data won't also be an issue on which we'll be able to share this guy's arguments. So, as in the amendment to Article 3 that I have explained, we are asking that order be changed when the principles of the national qualification framework are defined and that, without reason, they are well heard in a public debate. What are principles? Equal opportunities. It's an important thing, because it's about availability and those who, in some age of development, despise, such as persons with disabilities, or women, or those with developmental disorders, and those with sexual orientations, material, health, etc. Accessibility, a very important item, a very important principle. Openness, too. Individuality. So let's make sure that whoever gets the qualifications is the center of the law. Transparency, i.e. public, relevance, lifelong learning, partnership and co-operation, quality assurance and comparison. We consider our order to be more logical and not to argue that the Government considers the more comprehensive solution it has proposed, when the principles of the national qualification framework are at stake, I thank you for the patience that you have listened to this unusual amendment during today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31952	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31953	I want to try to create a tradition of amendments that makes sense, so after the amendment, I will also say this amendment. Thus, Article 4 paragraph 1 is amended and reads: “All lifelong learning, respect for the needs and opportunities of individuals to learn, perfect and develop throughout life. ” It's a very important thing. For unwarranted reasons, this amendment has been rejected, but that is the case and it cannot be changed. I just want to remind both colleagues and the Serbian public that lifelong education is an important thing, that it can be a prevention for many bad habits, for many bad habits. Let's say, one of those customs is that you write almost 1,000 amendments, and you know that they will be rejected, and yet you do, because someone ordered you to, you still enjoy it, and you repeat the truths that the supreme producer of untrues has already said, and then you repeat it as an echo that lasts for days. That's not good. Kids laugh, they laugh and adults laugh. Lifelong learning is a way of making people truly useful to individuals who will benefit from their society, their organization, this legislative body, from contributing to a better life in a country. And it's not done by repeating a lie, even if it was said somewhere in the Shadow or somewhere here on Andric's crown. A lie by repeating doesn't become true. It's a rule that many here should learn either in their education regularly or in their lifetime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31954	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31955	I'm going to make one more statement about the amendment itself. I'm calling for her not to be accepted. I consider the argument that we received from the legislator to be quite good, and I don't think that anything spoken in the meantime represents any argument, so neither do the members of the so-called opposition criticise themselves. I've heard there's been some inconvenience over nearly 1,000 amendments. Then it's certainly about their score. They've put up with it so much. And if their kids were laughing, I'd take that as a self-critic, but they're absolutely no argument. Let them explain to one another who has done what he has done. On the subject of time, one parliamentary group is right. She won't have time to discuss other laws, because she spent it, and the other MP group, I have to tell them, is wrong. So, the good news for them, they still have time, I think, another two minutes at a time, six minutes at a second base. If they use them wisely, they'll discuss whatever they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31956	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31957	Article 107 is injured. Indeed, Mr. Arsic, I know and we all know and we see how you react when Orlic tells you - say the warning, interrupt someone etc. And we don't enter into those relationships of yours. But you shouldn't have let...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31958	If you don't get into these relationships, I don't know why you mention them. First, because you want to say in advance that I'm acting against the Rules of Procedure and obeying someone's orders? Well, we're not that naive.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31959	Oh, you get angry man. So, Mr. Arsic, you should not have allowed the MP, the one you are blindly listening to, to insult the MP group of the SRS in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31960	Even though you threw it at him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31961	I'll throw it away and I'll throw it away. Let him throw it to me, as he throws it to me. That's not the problem, that's not the point. This isn't the Academy of Science that you can't throw yourself away. Of course we're throwing and of course they're getting to us and of course they're not distracting us. But, Mr. Arsic, where he is invited, on what basis has he been invited to warn the MPs of the SRS how much time we have, will we use this time wisely? So who's he to judge how we use time and do we use it? On what basis does he tie us to Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic? You have close contact and close contact. And what you're throwing, you've mostly come from Zivkovic, if you're not from the radicals, is from Zivkovic, it's from the Democrats, it's from the DSS. Yes, yes, Filipovic, you and Zivkovic were together until two, three years ago. You did, Zivkovic, it happened to you. So you must no longer allow such insults, Mr. Arsic. If there's anything with us to talk to Mr. Orlic, he can, but this way never again. Who is he, I repeat, and I ask you to tell the People's Assembly and the public on what basis he has just caused nothing to talk about whether we have, how much time we have and so on? (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31962	Wait till I answer first. A fellow Orlic was entitled to a replica. I don't understand why you're getting so excited. If you want me to remind you of the start of a discussion by your authorised representative of the parliamentary group who at one point accused the ruling majority's MPs that you have no right to explain the amendments in some subsequent period. Now, as you ask that question to fellow Orlic how he was allowed to tell you that you have two minutes and six minutes left as a parliamentary group authorized on various grounds, I will not go into it, too... (The Faith of Radeta: As random passersby.) And as random passersby in the Assembly, it doesn't matter. You may continue to insult yourself freely. So did fellow Savik. With what right did he demand that the MPs of the majority do not submit amendments? It's a completely even situation. I didn't react when my colleague talked about it, I didn't react when Mr. Orlic talked about it. You'd have the right if I'd made it impossible for your MP to talk about it. No, but that's why I don't want Mr. Orlic. I don't want any MPs. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. I see this is where the Rules of Procedure got hurt. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] We continue our work, dear fellow Members of the People and colleagues. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31964	Thank you. Before we go any further, Mr. Arsic, in accordance with article 108, give yourself a warning, and here's why. Because you had just violated article 27 when you were answering the question regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure, where I intervened because of what Mr. Orlic was saying, and then you explained that you allowed him to mention it in the SRS replica because three speakers before, three MPs, Nikola Savic mentioned whether you were right or not to submit the amendments, and then before Mr. Zivkovic and Mrs. Gordana Komic, Dubravko Bojic also said something in that sense, and you accepted that Mr. Orlic could replicate us after five MPs. Since you don't normally allow me to sit in your seat, I would allow it, but since you stick to what you used to be against when this Rules of Procedure is applied to your damage, since you don't treat all MPs that way, then you should respect the Rules of Procedure well, apply Rule 108, give yourself a warning, and we should continue to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31965	My colleagues Radeta, all my actions today and yesterday and all these days speak the opposite of what you said. I have nothing else to say to you, except to ask you, do you want the People's Assembly to declare themselves in the voting day? I agree completely, it will come out. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31966	Mr. Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have injured Article 38. I may have shown you once when Mr Marinkovic chaired, and now I will, because you are a long vice president of the Assembly and you should have protected, so you have injured, and regarding Article 27, you should have at the moment when Orlic of the SNS spoke to protect the parliamentary group, not only ours, but any one of them. Namely, what's this about? No one paid attention to the last part of his exposure, which he abused. You were supposed to react when he said, you had it left, so he said – six minutes, two minutes. He takes the time, instead of Mr. Brank and you who are in charge and says, "If you have the wisdom to say something smart, say it, you have plenty of time." First of all, Mr. Arsic, you know very well that everything the Serbian radicals say is extremely clever, argumentated, harmonised, with the principles we have stood for for for so many years, and Mr. Sarcevic, who is present here and Mr. Ruzic, because we are very professionally and reasoned all these days defending our amendments. Since I can't really talk to someone who's uninvited about everything I'm talking about, and that's the one who got you to hurt the Rules of Procedure, to talk seriously, I'm gonna turn around to see what time it is, half a dozen, if he's going to work out of ten, and before that, he's running into the O.R., then he's on that ad -- when you're hungry, you're not all yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31967	I really can't understand the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just please, colleague Orlic is not "this" or "that", he is a people's messenger like you, and yet you have accused him of being hungry. It's forbidden, according to the Rules of Procedure, bringing out the facts of personal life, that maybe that's why he's nervous, that's your assumptions, and I really don't know. But I'm going to use this breach of yours, and I'm going to answer, to finally try some things to clear up once and for all here. I know that certain MPs are bothered by the transmission of so many amendments. It all started with that... Nemanja Sarovic of Domination. )......................................................................................................... Don't get it, you know how it's going. You've got experience in it. Don't make me happy. The Rules of Procedure are designed to have time for discussion on all grounds parliamentary groups in relation to the number of MPs, and the number of MPs is determined by the number of mandates passed by the parliamentary groups in the elections. So, everyone who wants to apply some other standards, imagine what they really want. All the rules of procedure, starting with what was called the most undemocratic, since 2000, meant that the MPs participated in the work of the National Assembly, the proportion of the mandates of a certain parliamentary group. And today, that's how it is. I'm sorry, please, there's something else I have to say, which is that in the period since this Rules of Procedure was in place, since 2010... You don't have the right to talk that much. I'm right. My colleague Radeta, it all started over what fellow Savic said the MPs of the majority are submitting amendments, so he can't talk. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. You're asking me if I'm normal? Prove I didn't. Prove that you are. I see this is fun. No problem. All I know is that this Rules of Procedure has been applied from 2010 to 2012 and I know that only once this obligation has been fulfilled to make use of the time for all 300 amendments, only once, when there was a completely different relationship in the National Assembly, when the government was carrying out DS. As of a year or a year or a year and a half ago, we have continued application of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, which implies that 300 amendments are being spoken of and are not therefore responsible MPs of the ruling majority. I do not challenge anyone to submit amendments, but accept that the beating has two ends, that the MPs of the majority have the right to submit amendments, it is a people's saying, I am not threatening anyone, and then it becomes an obstacle that MPs are using their right. Col. Jovanovic, do you want the Parliament to declare its injury to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day? (Yes) Of course, you do. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31968	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 103, paragraph 8, concerns exactly what is currently a very current issue, which is a matter of time, and that attitude says that in the event of what happened, and it seems to me, twice related by the same parliamentary group, and then further through some debate between microphones and official giving words to MPs, therefore, when misused for some endless replication and explanation of everything and everything, then you have the right to assist the MP group on the organisation of their time for discussion. Of course, I think there's been an abuse of desire to replicate to me, to replicate to you. Now I see they're replicating themselves. I mean, when it comes to the need to follow the rules, there's no excuse. There is no excuse when it is established, as a small hour has been established, that they did not even listen to my presentation by the MPs, so they do not know that I did not mention the SRS or any other party. There's no excuse when the MPs don't know there's a so-called. The e-parliament, which keeps a precise record of everyone's time for discussion, including theirs, so that they can check it themselves whenever they want. There is no excuse when there is a lack of knowledge of basic mechanisms, e.g. That we're all here, it was a question of who I am, the MPs, and among other things, I'm the one who likes to look at how much of that time there is, and then he wants to, and maybe it's my fault, Mr. Chairman, to help his colleagues. I wanted in the spirit of collegiate performances and collegiate debates to suggest that we help together colleagues to organise themselves with time for discussion, so that, in accordance with this attitude 8, we would shorten their discussion for those two minutes, since they obviously think they have too much time, and not enough to say, in addition, that they have declared themselves that they are chronically and constantly hungry. I guess with that... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... Time and his organization need help.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31969	There's no question about that, colleague Orlic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) We keep working. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31970	On the third day, we are discussing amendments to the draft law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, as if this is a matter of planetary importance, and the fact that we have had five points on the agenda that will not be spoken of. It's not about this whole proposal, it's about all four members. The fact remains that the public will not hear a single word about the amendments to the draft law on textbooks, and that is of great interest both publishers and teachers and directors and parents and students. I just don't care about the government. There won't be a single letter recorded on what we had to say about the draft law on educational inspection, and we did. We had to warn the minister, who's not here right now, to ask him if the minister knows that in schools where he's setting up directors or where the directors who have been set up before have gone to the ruling party, where the teacher won't provide a number of capillaries, says, "Just play with it, I'll bring you an educational inspection, an educational inspector, and you'll see where you'll find a job." That's true, and that's what we wanted to talk about. We wanted to say that there will be problems, as I said, with the purchase of children textbooks, that the purchase of textbooks will continue to depend on who the director or influential teacher was being held with. No one's going to ask their parents. Serious money is taken on the purchase of textbooks, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it well, but you do not want the citizens of Serbia to know. That's why you're making this farce out of the amendment, and then you want to turn the story around so that one of us gets in the way of the amendments. No, they don't mind, just change the Rules of Procedure and give me a million amendments, I'm talking about a million amendments, and it's no problem. Don't turn the water on your water. In this way, you actually want Serbian citizens who have more will and patience to monitor the work of parliament to defile the National Assembly. And that started in 2000. And, unfortunately, it's not the only thing you've inherited from these 2000 dosmanias. You discussed everything and everything yesterday, you discussed the airport in Nis and none of the parties, nor those who support the return of Konstantin Airport from the city of Nis Republic, nor those who are against it, or who do not know, or will not tell the true truth. I'm afraid those who support don't know, and those who attack to know, but support what's behind this. I remind you that it is happening slowly, but surely, what we said three years ago or when Etihad took over JAT and when it was created "Er Serbia", then we said that "Er Serbia" would become a leu bone company. Unfortunately, it's already happening. Serious negotiations are being made on the sale of a slot in London, there are serious indications that it has already been sold. Once we have full and confirmed information, we'll let the public know. What's the point? The intention is to temporarily banish the whole story of "Er Serbia" under the return of the airport of NZ in Serbia's jurisdiction, that, like that of Constantin Airport, in which the state will invest money, to raise itself to some higher level, but no one in the country, yesterday I listened to the president of the state who says – here, I will give or will not give money to the airport, as if giving my money. But first, if he's willing to give money to the airport, as president of the state, why if the airport belongs to the Republic, why isn't he ready to give the same money to the airport belonging to the city of Nis? I guess the state of Serbia is one and the other, huh? But, therefore, this action is led by Zorana Mihajlovic. Zorana Mihajlovic will soon completely destroy the airport in Nis and we will no longer have any serious airports. Why is she doing this? Because of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre. They use the airport, and it wants them to deny it, and the government, and the president of the state, and you gentlemen of the assembly majority, instead of making the most of it that members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre are granted diplomatic status, at least as many as NATO soldiers, who are doing Serbia, you allow Zorana Mihajlovic to do to you, and what she is doing now. This thing with Constantin Airport, you're going to say very quickly that you don't understand, and you who may not really understand, you will soon see how right we are and that is another reason why Zorana Mihajlovic should not be a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 24 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31971	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31972	A lot of subjects, just so a man wonders which one's better. How much did I understand the basis for the reaction here was the fact that someone couldn't possibly organize with their own time to argue, right? It's too bad it's a cause for such big and loud words, but let's do one thing at a time. The Nis airport is clearly said, so what is the Serbian government's intensity? To help him, to improve him further, for example. By investing tens of millions of euros that we cannot afford to invest. So, the town of Nis alone can't, and at least those who pretend to care a lot now, that they care a lot, that they don't have them out of their own pocket to give what's needed for that airport? I don't think so. So to invest and to help, to work even better, to be more successful, to be even better equipped than it is today, and today it's certainly far from what we found and that's what the actual numbers and results say. We talked about it, but there's no one to listen to, there were 1300 passengers, that was the order of size with which we used to measure. Now it's almost 300 times more and it's saying something about the state's attitude towards the airport so far. That says something on the subject, because as it is now said, someone is deliberately trying to ruin it. If he wanted to destroy it on purpose, he wouldn't bother, and he wouldn't get the real result. If he wanted to destroy it on purpose, he wouldn't even be performing with an initiative to add tens of millions of euros to the country's citizens. Nothing changes here in terms of ownership. Did something belong to the state? It belonged. Is there any suggestion that it still belongs to the state? Yes, it is. What's so terrible and disastrous about it now, except for the mechanism to provide financial support. Once again, if they know about a better solution, let them say, here we go and let them say let's give from there and there. The Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre should not be declared as long as they have the same boss, if those who have said the worst possible about the centre in the past ten days. The technical service to help them find out how much time they have for the debate, since they still have, as much as we try to spend on it, will certainly be more content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31973	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31974	This is really inadmissible insolence, but to you on the cheek of Arsic, and I don't think it really makes any sense what you're doing. As far as this Serbian-Russian centre is concerned, we have raised 30,000 only in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and there we are seeking to open such a centre. And this gentleman who doesn't know anything, except that the service told him to read how much time anyone has, because he can't use an e-parliament, so much so that I don't say what, just let him answer the question whether the sale of Slot in London is over, if by any chance he knows what Slot is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31975	You were probably upset with my insolence, so you forgot to mention a member of the Rules of Procedure you consider to have been violated. So I have no obligation to ask you... (Verica Radeta: From 1st to 101st) Now it's over, pal. (The Belief of Radeta: It's not over.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31976	And to this occasion, Mr. Chairman, Article 103 of attitude 8, of course, for the same good reasons, to help our colleagues. You always have to help your colleagues when necessary, and now you can see it's absolutely necessary. So let me help them with the organization of time, because they obviously still don't get along with the time for discussion. Section 8 says, in an extra two minutes, we can help them. This was used for replication and to ask these questions, specifically to me or to you, is not clear again. I guess these people talk to themselves the most today. On the subject of what I said and I tell you, and you can move on, if you think you should, the same boss about those scandalous stories from the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, is the one who put them in the board of directors and supervisors. That's what I meant, and today whose election staff are saying the centre is causing fires in Serbia. I find that unacceptable as a claim. As for Slott, I think it would be good if we laid it on them in the next slot of two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31977	Comrade Orlic, if I were to apply those two minutes to this MP group right now, I'd have to take it from you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31978	According to article 32, to be as human as this colleague before, so I can try to help you as chairman. Let's really control your colleagues a little bit. It's too offensive what Mr. Orlic has been trying to impose the SRS for some time now. With the Russian Federation, no one will cross us from the Serbian Radicals. You take care of your communication with the Russians and sitting on two chairs gentlemen. As for how we use time, how we use time, whether we speak to ourselves, we certainly don't have a conversation with you. We address the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31979	My colleague Radeta, I think that... (The Faith of Radeta: I ask that the Assembly declare itself. ) We will declare ourselves in the day of voting. I don't think even my colleague Orlic... But you didn't owe him either, so... - Yes, I am. I stayed in debt. You didn't stay in debt. It's just a matter of work. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31980	Chairman, thank you. I believe the injured member is 107th dignity of the National Assembly. You know what, when an opposition MP says he needs to control us, I don't know how he thinks he's controlling us. Well, we're not savages, Neanderthals some to control us. And you look so much alike. ) There, and throwing away is something I think you should give a warning to a people's messenger who throws it away. Since she even compared some of us to Zoran Zivkovic. It is very offensive and there is also an injured member of 107, because any member of the people is like what is sitting across from us, such as Zoran Zivkovic is offensive to all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31981	In accordance with Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been more amendments, but we are only now on Article 4. It belongs to the first part of this law – basic provisions. Turns out the scale of the law here is more important than the essence. I need to say something perfectly clear and precise. I'm one of the few, I don't believe I'm the only MP who's responsible for all submitting amendments. I was a little sad at first because I thought I lived in another country compared to my colleagues, and then I decided that the problems in all places were solved, that my Asbukovica was also a geographical name for people living in Lyubia. I got another impression that the best situation in Leskovec was. What didn't work out with Jeremic Vuk, can now succeed with the UN secretary general, but when problems were solved in other places of our beautiful Serbia, I guess there was a turn in the middle of Podrinje, the municipality from which I came. He's not the Minister of Education here, but I assume he's a colleague from his ministry and he can pass it on to him. This is where we saw all the problems solved. Many halls have been made, schools done, dual education flourishes, but just to remind you, Mr. Ružić recently visited the municipality and can testify to telling the truth, there is a school that marked 180 years of existence in 2016. It is a primary school with 10 students, and so are teachers and teachers at that school. Now you see what kind of situation we have, if it weren't for the Bratunac across the street, which is only six kilometers away, the question arises whether the high school, when it comes to children from Lyubia, could survive. High school also exists for many years. It's been done a lot of halls, sports halls, I have to remind you, and I can commend that on Fridays, the place that has 5,000 residents when it's a day, I mean just a townhouse, has a team in a women's basketball game capacity that can deal with the most elite in society, with the first league. There are no conditions, no hall that meets the conditions so you can play first needle. Do you know who's playing at that club? They play kids from elementary and high school. This is also how in the most direct relationship with education, so I would remind Minister Sarcevic only to think in that direction, Minister Sarcevic, Minister Ruzic, could there and Minister Udovic, if they were to think about it, it might give hope and the chances of people living there to stay there. The Drina River, as counterpart Miletic would say – the most beautiful place, the Drina River is the most beautiful river in Europe and it is also something that we should pay attention to, because it is all in the most direct relationship, here, some maritime, river school could be established in LJubova. Think, gentlemen of the ministry, that each part of Serbia would have an equal chance of development, not just some larger place. The question of the ability of local self-government is also raised. Here, just to remind you that local self-government has been repainted, that is, by the people who exercise power, what is at the level of the Republic. Whether it's favoring other places or perhaps incompetence of local leadership, I don't know, take a look at the board's sessions, do an analysis, and then you'll come to the conclusion and answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31984	Thank you, colleague Perich. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31985	Thank you. Article 4 The draft law lays down the principles of the National Qualifications Framework, which include, among other things, the principle of equal opportunities, that is, point 4 point 1, when it comes to the acquisition of qualifications regardless of the years of life, gender, difficulties and disturbances in development, disability, racial, national, social, cultural, ethnic and religious origin, language, sexual orientation, place of residence, material status, health and other personal characteristics. Article 2 The law prohibiting discrimination stipulates that discrimination means any unwarranted creation of differences or unequal treatment against persons or groups in an open or hidden way, based on race, skin colour, citizenship, nationality, ethnic origin, language, religious or political beliefs. For all these reasons, I have submitted this amendment requesting the erasure of the words “equal opportunities, ” since positive discrimination is also a form of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31986	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31987	Thank you. By amendment to Article 4 of the SRS Parliamentary Group, it has proposed to amend this Article in paragraph 6) the erasure of unnecessary words. Article 4 refers to NOX principles. When it comes to the fact that qualifications should be based on labour market needs, scientific research and art, or society as a whole, we must consider that the current situation in Serbia is not harmonised and that there are a large number of unemployed people on our labour market. Analyzing the effects, the promoter himself cited the problems that the passing of this law should solve. The first among them is the problem of the failure of the qualification system with the need for economy, institutional and functional links between the world of war and the world of education in the process of development and acquisition of qualifications. Just to remind you that the current set has been in power for six years, and it's no longer appropriate to say that it's someone else's fault. That is why it must be much more responsible for the citizens. The government and the National Assembly's commitment to citizens is seen in the adoption of laws that will be in the interest of citizens. The fact is that during some periods there was a mass schooling of personnel in certain professions, so there was suffocation on the labour market, and no one took responsibility for it. It's another irrefutable fact. In all areas of work in Serbia, only those who are at will of the ruling structures can prosper. They keep everything under control and who is willing to hire them at a job where they have no qualifications, and they can advance and have a better salary. One who is not willing can only wait on the labour market or leave this country. If by some miracle he's hired earlier, he can't make any progress, he can't have a higher salary. On the contrary, all he can do is lay low, and he can be struck by various pay cuts and labour rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31988	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31989	Mr. Marinkovic, Mr. Minister Ruzic, here, I will address the public of Serbia with exact data. We're closing this debate. There is no Minister Sarcevic at the moment. So, the defeating fact is that in Serbia, 73% of students, and this is a study that was conducted last year on a sample of 1,200 students, 20 colleges at the University of Belgrade, believe that the educational system of Serbia, therefore, is those that study and I will take advantage of the opportunity since no one has thought of it from you officials to congratulate the students of Serbia on their national day. It's student day. So they feel that the educational system in Serbia is not in line with the needs of the labour market. They are so disappointed and so much they do not see the perspective and future of such an educational system in the country and their opportunities in the fallen Serbian economy, that even the study continues further and 48% have been declared not to trust the state institutions when it comes to any kind of subsidisation, because all those covered by this research have mainly said that they would be defined based on their knowledge and education, the qualifications of all those who have acquired during education to start a private business. Most often it is an entrepreneurial activity, but not only do they think that the door on which they would have knocked, so they have not yet started and it is not their prejudice, but in their environment they see, closed, but they see that the state is, above all, very important now, Minister Ruzic, who wants at all costs of European integration, cannot provide them with it. There's one part of those who think it's possible... (President: Time.) What time? I'm moving on in time. (President: You don't. Parliament group time's up. Finish your sentence freely. I'll finish my sentence. So this message, even on today when they celebrate their day of students, that Serbia is not a place in the EU, should be a guideline to the further system of education and the harmonisation of all these frameworks of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31990	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31991	As for not only the amendments, but this law in principle, this is another one of those laws that the ruling regime is simply because someone from the EU has hit the pack and said the law must be brought into line. This law has nothing to do with an education system that will improve. I will remind you, Serbian citizens, that our education system was one of the best. You have a situation that a number of students come and study abroad our Faculty of Machines and our ETF and many others, but the education system, as well as everything else, began to collapse after so-called. The five-octobar change, i.e. the "buldozer of revolution", of the moment when laws have been passed which, it says, as we strive to listen to the EU, and to sign everything they give us and it would be nothing different and nothing weird that this policy was reversed when those who promised and who spoke in their performances in 2009 and 2010 and 2011 were against the IMF, that they were against Serbia's entry into the EU for many other reasons, but in the meantime, they took over the ideology of LDP and the parties of Cedomir Jovanovic and the party of Zoran Zivkovic and not only took over their ideology, but they took over the staff and today the same ones have to fight for their seats, because they know well that it is not only their first party, but it is their N-party and they remember that they have turned the turkey when it was a question of KiM. I remind you that the gentlemen on the left in Kosovo Mitrovica in 2012 promised that the KIM problem would be solved in the UN and the problem would be returned there, and today they write off the Brussels agreements and implement the Brussels agreements, so it is a very non-chalant fact that we have a situation to listen to today that according to the amendments they keep talking about things that are completely irrelevant to this law, but they forget that they have changed the full ideology and today they call people who have taken away the ideology and the people's various names.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31992	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. ) You have the right to a replica, colleague Zivkovic, but first came from MP Vladimir Orlic. (Vladimir Orlic: I give up my colleague's word. ) The word is a colleague of Zivkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31993	I'd like this desert debate of the SRS, of these hard variants and of this light variant that is now in power to stop. Don't spend this people's money on it. What you've done now holds the power, what commands the one, it should have been in the pioneers at the radicals to get in line, and you're not letting what's grown up now, so it's not radical, it's not... as I would say, it's not a tree, it's not a log, and it's your fault. A moment ago, Mrs. Radeta transferred and said that some, I think her name was somehow, and she probably has a name, from the Witches, that he was my member. God forbid, you will drive me to extreme Christianity. I'll have to pray to God all the time. It may look like Sheshel, otherwise it was neither me nor it would be nor God save it. Therefore, I am asking you to introduce order here. If Arsic didn't succeed, if Orlic couldn't help him either, if there's one among you that's missing right now, the one who studied three days less than their party president, means one seven years, so now the doctor is science, come on. Show that social democracy in Serbia has the strength to deal with the radicality of hard or light variants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31994	Thank you. Right on line, first Vladimir Orlic. Just one moment, I haven't seen, Marijan Risticevic has broken his Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Orlic, so Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have injured a member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. You let who knows which time my fellow farmer tried, Zoran Zivkovic, rudely insults not only the MPs, not only the dignity of the National Assembly, the officials who are not present at the moment, but in a certain way insults and common sense. You let him who didn't make a fair buck in his life, let him talk about some money, some money, some money, and used the terms of a tree, a log, a tree is a log, so I'll dare it's a tree, a log is probably an associate of it, and he sees the chocolate vines coming from Frusca Gora. So, the man who took 42 million dinars, 525 thousand euros from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, told us all here that there's some money that he's building for a rock, selling grapes per cluster, how we're throwing that money away and giving it to someone else. I'd like my fellow farmer to explain when he's doing it, other than tampering by selling a pumpkin, a fake hen, honestly earned any white dinar he invested in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31996	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Marian Risticevic: No. No, no, no, Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31997	There's a lot of things we've heard here again, and it's kind of convenient that we've heard in that order that it's been, because I think it's very good to see it, to see the citizens who are following this. As far as we're right and why we're all right when we claim that there's no difference here amongst some, which just happened to be behind each other, racing who's going to mention us more than once. The basic resemblance, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the fact that neither one of them has any opinion whatsoever, except for what is currently useful to them. So, neither on the subject of the EU. For example, those who applauded at a sentence in their heart – we want to be an equal member of the EU with Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, read in front of a large gathering where they swore they were great opponents of the EU and that they did not find it strange that such a sentence would be received in their leader's letter, to applaud everyone on that sentence, and today to pretend that it never happened. It just shows they have no opinion whatsoever. Another similarity can be sought on a visual basis. On a visual basis from the moment they started defiling the solemn yellow shirts, I think that visual plan is more visible and understandable to anyone who's following this. The most important resemblance, ladies and gentlemen, lies in that argument that was mentioned just a moment ago. That's an argument that's money. As much as they loved money and as much as they did, they best showed in the document their working group members of the parent company, so to speak, of the man who briefly mated as a subject. And in that document, their working groups, they wrote these are their research results and their words, that, in time, when they were on occasion, they stole from Serbian citizens by setting up competitions, by setting up tenders, by installing themselves as a percentage. So this is the most important of all current interests that define views on any matter, political or non-political. Both to them and to those who have been put into boards and boards of directors and the money they have stolen and shared with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31998	Thank you. The word has Nemanja Sarovic, right to replication. The mention of the Serbian Radical Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u31999	That's right. You, Mr. Marinkovic, conduct democratically mostly sessions when you chair, but you can't stand it all. You know, there's got to be a draw somewhere, there's something unrelated to parliamentary democracy, I guess there's a home education. We heard a doctor's science whose basic political argument is against another political party's color shirt, and it speaks best of him and his education. Otherwise, it was a man who joined the Serbian Radical Party, and after 15 days he ran into someone else. So much for who has an opinion, who doesn't. As for Mr. Zivkovic, and all these quasi Democrats he says – radicalism. It's more like democracy. You know, if we're already talking about whose legacy it is, then SNS is the legacy of the Democratic Party. They created it. They protected their mandates, and before the Constitutional Court changed practically the Constitution of Serbia and at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, they financed them, they gave them media space, they gave them ideology and what was very important gave them personnel, so wesic belonged to someone, someone belonged to Siniša Mali, and someone belonged to Kena, Shule, Jelena Trivan again on this side. We have nothing to do with it. We didn't change the staff, so we didn't take people from other parties who stood up for something quite the opposite until yesterday. We didn't take other people's ideology, we pride ourselves, we guard our own, we fight for our political beliefs. So if you want to compete politically, you have to come up with something smart, you have to have some kind of argument, and you have to keep at least a dose of decency.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32000	Thank you. Right on the line, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32001	Thank you. Considering it rather unnecessary to bring this kind of living into a session that is planned to be an amendment session, with amendments that are not within the concept of the law and with the view that the power of the saint is, by calling off the tropics, which is all legal and legitimate, to comments on what it is and how DS has done now, sometimes or will do, information of the general species. The Democratic Party, unlike many, unfortunately, knows the value and necessity of the opposition in Serbia and knows that no authority is a saint and what we have done trying to explain to others how much the opposition of each kind is necessary and how much power is not a saint, we will continue to do. The opposition is not a state enemy. The Constitutional Court can only consider whether a social group is working in accordance with the Constitution or not, and the atmosphere in which it is clearly not understood, so the opposition is a state enemy, which serves as a punching bag and atmosphere that we will change again, as we have changed Serbia's agenda once, since the policy of isolation, of war policy, of sanctions, of everything that followed our work during the 1990s. We have changed Serbia's agenda into a policy of European integration, and that is something that is irreversible. Political works of European integration are now others and we welcome it, and we criticise all that anyone does bad when it comes to European integration and we will always criticise because the opposition is necessary and the government is not a saint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32002	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32003	Thank you. Several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured and we here, Mr. Chairman, have been present for the last ten minutes with a false argument and that is to be told to the citizens, a false argument between these here who are a little bit more to the right and those who represent some relics of the past, which will never return to Serbia again. A common denominator to them, and you can clearly see... (Miss Radeta: What member? · Global Voices I said 107 and 106. (President: said counterpart Markovic, several members noted. Go on. )......................................................................................................... is a joint attack on SNS. It's the only thing that connects these, and I said a little bit to the right and that one there that's a little left. Besides, he's another common denominator, which is that they're below the censorship. They're all under the census together. In this way, they best demonstrate that they actually have very good co-operation, which, by the way, they have had in the Belgrade City Assembly for years, while Gilas was mayor, as counterpart Orlic said earlier, when they shared boards of directors and supervisors, officially, and today they pretend to be enemies, today they pretend to be opponents, and in fact, their only opponent is SNS. The only thing that hurts them is that the SNS in the election is making an increasingly good result, despite their lies, despite the insults. Please warn him not to throw it at me. This has lost more than any sense, Mr. Chairman. I think at the very least you should have taken their time to argue, if not a warning to give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32004	Thank you. My colleague Markovic, I can't do this in part, but I'm going to have to take two minutes away from the time of the parliamentary group, because you've misused the apparition of the Rules of Procedure's injury. How come they don't have time? Take it easy. Let's move on. Zoran Zivkovic is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32005	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you first to speak to me and try to restore dignity to this home, which has been marred by the presence of some MPs, by the very presence. But what do we do, it's wax populo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32006	My colleague Zivkovic, I'm sorry, I have to... I'm trying to be correct and apply the entire Rules of Procedure. I don't want to allow any insult to the MPs. As you have seen, I have taken time from the ruling majority MP, so I ask that we do not insult each other, that we do not speak in such a way about the MPs of the people. Keep going, but you should know I won't allow any further behavior like this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32007	So that would be very nice if it happened, just, please hear me out, then you'd hear when someone says someone's stealing, that he's kidnapped, that he's like this, that you're doing it in a way that you'll take away his word. But I appeal to all present MPs to restore dignity to this home, return to discussion by amendment, stop colleagues from discussing their amendments and thus show a gesture of gentlemen and allow the opposition to say what it has, in order to correct the laws that are good. Of course, if that doesn't happen, then the Serbian public will be absolutely clear and then we'll have a situation that's very familiar, that someone who's not satisfied, he gets out, say, of the parliament, or he gets out of the chip factory in Pancheva, sits on the bus, which was produced at Icarbus, then the subway goes past that bus to the Belgrade port. Then he sits on that Danube-Morava-Vardar channel, and then on, he sees, as he passes by, sees the already completed and populated building "Boograda on Water", and then sees airports all over Serbia, as long as you want, and foreign investors running around. Then he comes to something that is not a border, and where he must kneel to enter Kosovo's territory... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32008	Comrade Zivkovic, this is really... In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. This is slipping into total anarchy. It's not worth it, you don't want any deal to resume a normal session. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32010	I didn't quite understand why Zoran Zivkovic got angry when I said that Serbia's Filipovic and he were in the same party? I may have made a mistake, because both parties were changing parties, but they were in the same party of mob Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32011	My colleague Radeta, I can't really let you. There's no point in insulting the late Prime Minister and the man in this way. It really doesn't make sense. I don't want to let this happen. Deleting list. I'm moving on with my work. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. (Religion of Radeta: Rules of Procedure) Rules of Procedure! I won't let you run the session. This is where I'm responsible for holding the session. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. (Religion of Radeta: Rules of Procedure) Rules of Procedure! Here you are, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32012	Mr. Chairman, I support your efforts to bring this session back to normal and discuss the agenda. As in previous amendments, I also submitted to Article 4 an amendment relating to human resources and qualifications acquired, because I believe that one of the key principles of improving human resources in Serbia should be professionalisation. The point is, in fact, we are able to meet the challenges that are set before us. Therefore, one of our most important tasks should be to continuously create conditions for efficient selection of personnel, by applying the criteria of ability, continuous professional training and career development. The way human resources are managed is a decisive factor in Serbia's successful functioning and sustainable development. Human resources are the most valuable and significant resource if effectively managed and adequately invested. The point is actually to promote the profession, to then select adequate personnel that will strengthen management functions in all Serbian institutions by their professional and ethical behaviour. Therefore, the need to improve human resources management and their potential remains one of the priority tasks in the next period. We rarely witnessed subjective decisions and improvised solutions. The most dramatic example for me is when an orthopedic doctor led the Department of Construction. As important as it is to set criteria well, it is even more important to apply them consistently and to apply them in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32013	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32014	Mr Marinkovic, you have violated a whole series of members of the Rules of Procedure, from Article 27 through Article 103. You simply do not have the right to say, no more, no more, when you get angry during the presentation of an MP. You suspended the Rules of Procedure. And in parliamentary democracy, if you suspend the Rules of Procedure, then you have suspended the Constitution. It's a mini coup. Nothing depends on your goodwill. Nothing. What does that mean – no more? We didn't have to fight around the buns here, so to speak, there's no more. The Rules of Procedure give everyone the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I've been pointing for the last 20 minutes. A few speakers got a word and you skipped me, even though I have an advantage in the Rules of Procedure. That's inadmissible. You cannot suspend whenever you wish the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, parliamentary democracy and the Constitution of Serbia. You just can't. And only because it's politically justified to you at that point. You have to choose. The second thing is that you have practically led the citizens of Serbia astray by saying that you have taken two minutes away from the Serbian Progressive Party's MP group because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure by their MP. What did you take away from when they had zero minutes at their disposal? What now, they have minus two? You thus create an illusion that you punish the MPs of the ruling coalition, that you apply the rigorous Rules of Procedure towards them, and you take away the time they do not have. What now, minus two, then the next abuse minus four minutes? Are you going to take that away from us? Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Follow the basic rules of parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32015	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. By respecting your and your legal knowledge and the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to explain to you why it was done as it was done, because under Article 112, I have the right and I gave a five-minute break, just to establish order at the session... Nemanja Sarovic: There were no riots. He says in the Rules of Procedure, if you can't do it the other way... )......................................................................................................... And you will agree with me that the session must be conducted in accordance with the principles of parliamentary democracy. That's exactly why I took a break and moved on, because there's been an eclectic insult, not to mention now which people, the mutual insult of MPs, and that's not parliamentary democracy. Let me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be able to hold a session as best I can and know, by investing all the energy that anyone can get what's in the Rules of Procedure when it comes to his word in the National Assembly. Nemanja Sarovic: How did you take up the time no one has? ) It was taken from the authorized. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yes, you do. Thank you. We've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is "The Witch of Radeth."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32016	I speak under Article 32(2). You, Mr. Marinkovic, sit here illegally today. Article 32(2) says the speaker of parliament in the event of his absence informs the other vice-presidents who will lead the session instead. I have been informed that it will be Djordje Milicevic and Veroljub Arsic. So you don't have the authority to sit here at all, let alone break the Rules of Procedure this harshly. Who are you? Who is it that sits there that the People's Messenger can allow or not allow anything to be said? What do you care who's my mobster and who's not? How come you don't react when you from that mob group say that Slobodan Milosevic is a war criminal? You're not responding. That doesn't bother you. I just wanted to say that Zoran Zivkovic inherited this Zoran Djindjic by voting in parliament five or six days after Djindjic's death to be prime minister. He received a round of applause from his party colleagues then, with a broad smile, received the post, received greetings as if he had married rather than buried the prime minister. You knew I was going to say that, because you are, I don't know if you personally, but you were certainly part of the government, because you've been part of the government since God forgot. So, you have no right and don't play, if you're sitting, I repeat, unauthorized, you're trying to tell the MP what I'm going to call. And if we hear one more time that someone says that Free Milosevic is a war criminal and you don't interrupt the session, we'll ask for your shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32017	Thank you, colleague Radeta. In accordance with Article 32, whether I am legally sitting or not, I will read to you the first paragraph: "The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly to perform from"... . (The Faith of Radeta: I have called for Section 2.) That's right. You didn't read it right. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32018	I want, of course, and I want a word in my Rules of Procedure. I also want for that little injury to be declared by the National Assembly and the one I'm about to say now. And I warn you in advance, if the Messenger of the people says that he wants the Assembly to be heard, then you have neither the right nor the obligation to comment on what the Messenger of the people says, for the Parliament will say in the day of the vote. And now you've injured Article 107. Read it. Have them bring you a stenogram of what you said. You act abusively, you treat and you address the People's Messengers. You have no right to do that. You are equal among other people's messengers. All 250 of us here have the same rights and obligations, but you, when you're sitting there, you have to make sure that we're all in this room the same. You and I here, when you sit here, you can say, and even an offensive thing to me and anyone, as we can to anyone, and then the chairman assesses whether it's for a warning, whether it's for this, for that, it doesn't matter. You have no right from that place. Who are you? Who are you, Marinkovic, to tell me Verici Radeta that I don't know how to interpret the Rules of Procedure? Who are you, man? There is no man in this room who knows the Rules of Procedure as I do, and all of Serbia knows it. You dare and let me say I don't understand the Rules of Procedure. I'm, like, an asshole, so you're talking to me about attitude one, and I warned you that you violated Article 232's position. Never try that again. Never!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32019	Thank you. I'm sorry I was a little braver. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I told you in the beginning. Yes. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32020	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I am using the rights that all MPs have, both the positions and the opposition, to submit the amendment, of course, and to talk about it. In this debate on amendments preceded a debate on the principle in which all MPs could talk about all the draft laws. So in accordance with their time under the Rules of Procedure and as far as I could see, no one today has denied anyone the right to talk about the Rules of Procedure. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 relating to the principles of the national qualification framework, despite the principles foreseen by this member, such as lifelong learning, individuality, equal opportunities, availability, attitude 10 provides for comparability as a principle relating to the integration of the national qualification framework with the European Qualifications Framework. I think it's logical that Article 11, which practically connects to this point 10, is added after Article 10. It refers to the affirmation of acquired qualifications with an explanation that the European integration process has a significant impact on education reforms, and not only when it comes to financial but also professional assistance and the introduction of such a qualification system into the system of education, together with dual education, is a significant milestone, because we can finally look at all qualifications owned by one individual, both from the formal, informal and lifelong learning system, and therefore educate educational profiles missing on the labour market, for which there is a need in the economy. And these are just some of the reasons why I think my amendment should be accepted, or included in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32021	Thank you, Mrs. Markovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32022	You didn't say which Natasa Jovanovic. (President: Natasha St. Jovanovic. Yes, I'm Sp. But I answered the Rules of Procedure and you were...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32023	Natasha St. Jovanovic. I know very well that you are Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Well, I didn't see you raise the Rules of Procedure. Please don't. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I have reported to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32024	I've called for a number of reasons, Mr. Marinkovic. First, because during the hour of your chairmanship, you have completely replaced the course of the session, and you have constructed something in your head as it should go, and you have made a series of failures and mistakes, I am reporting for Article 27 of your mistakes, sorry for not following the course, and in order for you to be in the position of the vice president, or vice president, you must keep an eye on at what point a member of the Rules of Procedure is injured, and I have now reported solely because of a member who refers to the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, we're being lectured here on how we perform, what arguments we have, how we should spend our time, and the deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group, I'm asking the gentleman from RTS to take pictures of it, Mr. Vladimir Orlic, and you pretend not to see it, replaying some Greek statue or Socrates, has been standing on one leg of a man for an hour now, highly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32025	My colleague Jovanovic, there's no point in why... You pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to Rule 107. It doesn't matter how it stands or someone sits, really, in parliament, especially if they do it in a normal and decent way. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32026	Mr. Marinkovic, because you really think that anyone can be here... Now you want us all to get up and come to Branko Ruzic and chat. I mean, if you think it's normal and if that's how it's done at the session, go ahead and make it clear and loud that we know in the future what the arches are and we're going to act that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32027	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yeah. Vladimir Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32028	You are a mentioned member of 107, but you have at your disposal, Mr. Chairman, and Art. In 108 and 109, if I'm not mistaken, which gives you the opportunity to react when obviously nothing else helps and concerns, of course, the measure of introducing order at the session, not because we're bothered when someone comes to us with a desire to say that one of us here looks like Apollo, thank you, it wasn't necessary, but because obviously this session can't end right if we let everyone here do what comes to mind, to react to their own words, for example. like that, I have not reacted to it for a moment, Mr. Chairman, that they do not know who has funded who here. I didn't react to that because I think it's obvious. There's Verica Radeta, she knows, and she confirmed it in this room, that Dragan Gilas financed the SRS through places on boards and boards. There is Nemanja Sarovic. He made statements in his own time in which he explained that they, imagine, entered the boards of directors and supervisors to control things from within. Like it had nothing to do with staying on those boards and boards. Where did that money come from? I didn't want to answer that question to intervene, but there were some charges here on the other side of the hall to make up something. So it can't be fiction when you refer someone to his own words. I want to explain that, so it's clear, that it doesn't stay unarranged, that I quoted the conclusion and the words that some people here themselves have said, the conclusion of a working body that only claimed that their colleagues were setting up competitions, setting up tenders and taking a percentage to be installed. Then from that money further Dragan Djilas financed the boards of directors and supervisors whose living witness is Vjerica Radeta, whose living witness is Nemanja Sarovic and others... . (President: Thank you. ) So if we have to explain some things, it's not a dispute, that's what I'm going to end up with, just to keep working after that, and you have the opportunities that the Rules of Procedure provides for these people who are fed up with you to explain where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32029	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32030	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Minister Ruzic with his associates, dear fellow MPs, I will return to the debate today on the law on the agenda, and I want to say at the very beginning: women are not icabans in Serbia, not in politics or in the economy. By adopting this law, we will allow all women in Serbia to gain the necessary skills and skills needed by the labour market, but also needed for the personal development of all women in Serbia, the development of entrepreneurship, the affirmation of the entrepreneurial spirit. According to official statistics, 30% of women in Serbia are owners of different companies when it comes to small or medium-sized enterprises and are therefore at EU level. The government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic, indeed affirms women's entrepreneurship and that these are not just empty words that testify to and significant financial support that is being given to the development of women's entrepreneurship, but also to all those innovations and innovation activities. I will only remind you that in 2016 one million euros was given for the development of women's entrepreneurship. In this year, about 400 million dinars are given precisely for innovation projects that both men and women in Serbia can apply to. My intention was, in fact, to affirm the society of knowledge and to really remove all those gender stereotypes in the society in Serbia when it comes to male and female affairs. Women today in Serbia are also doing men's jobs. They adopt all those professions that were meant for men. Women are today pilots, IT sector experts, web designers. In voting day, I urge all fellow MPs and my colleagues from the SNS to really support this excellent legal solution, but not just this, but all the reform system laws that are on our agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32031	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32032	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would really support the idea of this amendment submitted by my colleague, because gender equality and economic empowerment of women are some of the key conditions of stable economic development. You know that this government does do a lot of work for women's economic empowerment and this shows that 30% of women are already involved in the management of small and large enterprises. You know that last year has been marked as a year of female entrepreneurship. Many steps have been taken by the government to raise women's gender equality and participation in small businesses. First of all, the birth certificate is being prepared. Birth budgeting is something much to talk about, a council was formed within the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for Women's Entrepreneurship. Finally, the extraordinary functioning of the Women's Parliamentary Network, as well as the opening of a special budget line by the European Parliament, i.e. European institutions allocated 20m euros to budget women's entrepreneurship in the region itself. I would like to stress that this is a path to continue, so it seems to me that the proposal of colleague Dusica Stojkovic is very meaningful and that it should be supported in this form. The goal is for Serbia to be a society of equal opportunities in which women will not suffer violence and discrimination, as improving gender equality is one of the major preconditions of the country's sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32033	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32034	Thank you, Chairman. On all these amendments that I submitted in the last three days, I put the accent on an increase in investment. However, apart from the government that takes care of investing in education, we are aware that local self-governments also have to undertake certain activities in order for education to really be at an envious level. The municipality of Sokobanja is also an example in the previous year 2017/2018. She allocated free lunch funds for all the basics of 6.5 million dinars, then allocated funds for the free transport of 18 million dinars, then made sure that all the founding members from first to fourth grade received new year's packages and that no one felt threatened and discriminated, since some children were really not able to get new year's packages. I have to say that this practice has not been in Sokobanja so far, since we know that up until recently there was a yellow company and that our children were sitting in a school without heating, that they were shortened for up to 30 minutes and had no quality teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32035	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? The word is Bug Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32036	Dear Mr Marinkovic, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to propose an amendment to the NOX law proposal to affect the very text of the law in the work with basic concepts. Although the text has more than precisely regulated the area of education and acquired qualifications, I believe it would, with the notion of: "the affirmations of acquired qualifications, as well as the realization of acquired knowledge in order to comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the efficiency of local self-government" further regulated and improved the text of the law. The importance of local self-government is great. I come from Zemun, here I was born, here I lived and worked, and today I live in Zemun. I'd like to note that there are 22 primary and secondary schools and two colleges in Zemun. My joy is great because the 23rd school in the Zemun settlement of Busia, where my people live, who came from the Republic of Croatia during Pogrom and Storm in 1995. In this village, the need for school is a reality. It is my great pleasure that in September, if God and happiness were to be completed, we would hopefully attend the opening. The school has been nickeling for a short period of time thanks to local self-government, meaning the municipality of Zemun, the town of Belgrade and the minister of education. I am particularly pleased because for a short period of time it will be completed and will be able to enter the students living in the land settlement of Busia. My esteemed colleagues in voting day, I call and ask them to vote in favour of these laws and for my amendment, if they find strength and time for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32037	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32038	Thank you, Chairman. How important is the overall improvement of education for the development of economy and investment I think I best explained on the case of the first big investment after 30 years that will come to my town of Cačak and will employ over a thousand Cacans, where for representatives of foreign companies, the most important parameters were the structure of education and what our city can offer in this regard. But I also think that promoting lifelong learning is also very important for the development of public administration. What the public sector characterized after 2000 was a sudden expansion of the number of employees, so in 2012, we had one, I would say, a very dysfunctional and massive state apparatus that the real economy could no longer withstand and two tasks were found before the state – on the one hand to reduce the number of public sector employees, and on the other hand to raise the quality of public service provision. That is why I believe that the reform laws we have adopted are very important, it is very important to the National Public Administration Academy, which defines models and ways of training public sector employees, but I think it is also very important, because many European studies dealing with the analysis of public service provision believe that the public service crisis has partly caused low motivation of lower echelons in public administration. So these are mostly employees who are in direct contact with citizens. It is therefore important that any learning, whether formal, informal or informative, be recognized, evaluated and valorised, so that each employee has the motivation to perfect himself throughout his life. So I think it's important that we pass this law that may be late, but it's important that we finally get the chance to adopt it. I think he will make a total contribution to the development of education in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32039	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Goran Pekarski. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Ruzic and his associates, today was a heated session. We observed the opposition's conflict with the position, the conflict within the opposition, we watched various performances, the playbooks, it shifted us not to stick to the agenda, and that's what those who were bringing amendments... (President: Continue after the amendment. [[GROANING]] ) I have submitted an amendment to point 4 which deals with principles, and by now through Articles 1, 2 and 3 we have been familiar with concepts, with objectives, here, and this amendment applies to principles. One of these principles is the principle of equal values, and this principle of equal value of acquisition of qualifications says that regardless of the age of life, regardless of gender, regardless of the difficulties and disturbances in development, regardless of race, regardless of the place of residence, regardless of the nation... I thank you, colleague Damjanovic, for throwing you away, but that shows how immature you are when you act like this when your fellow MP speaks. Chairman, let's get back to the subject. In point 3, the concepts of information and informal learning have emerged, which have proved to be the objectives of the NOX, i.e. the National Qualification Framework of the Republic of Serbia, and are in line with European recommendations. The first term is harmonised and is called validation of informal and informal learning, and according to European norms it is called validation of non-formal and informational learning. So I'm glad that some concepts have become goals that have been adopted... (President: Time.) Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32041	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32042	I want to talk about a problem facing 530 families from seven local self-governments whose apartments were built by the Italian government, through the so-called. "Sir programme" or "so-called". a programme for the permanent integration of refugees. In fact, it is 80% of the refugee population and 20% of the local population who live, i.e. have apartments in Nis, Valjev, Kraljev, Čačka, Kragujevac, Stari Paz and Pancheva. Some families have been discriminated for ten years, as they are denied the right to buy their apartments, which was envisioned by the contract, or the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Serbian government and the Government of Italy in 2004. Unfortunately, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, or Minister of Capital Investment Vojislav Ilic, the buy-in option was abolished in 2006. They're all trapped. We've been trying for the past ten years to fight to correct the injustices against these people, to get the right to ransom, and we still haven't succeeded. Also, the great injustice is the fact that they pay a very large rent even though the Refugees Act provides for this lease to be far less. On this occasion, I appeal once again to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to the present Mr Ruzic, the prime minister and all other ministers to find a solution that would allow these 530 families from seven local self-governments in Serbia to finally get the right to buy out, to become owners of these apartments, as foreseen by the Refugees Act. I think it's finally time to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32043	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? He's not here. On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Ostova Mijailovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? He's not here. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32044	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing Article 4, is expanding the list of principles on which the Law of NOX is based. Investment in education and professional training of young people, as well as the possibility of lifelong learning, are the basic preconditions of one country's economic progress. The government of the Republic of Serbia has long recognised this fact and all ministries have made a full contribution to the process of development. In the last five years, ten doctors of medicine have been employed by the Ministry of Health and the municipality, five specializations have been awarded. The work relationship was obtained by 17 health workers of the Zlatar Institute, the Institute for Rehabilitation of Cardiovascular Patients, who was derelict in 2011 by the previous authorities. The physical medicine service is open, the pharmacy is open, parking has been built, 10 million dinars have been invested in the reconstruction of the municipality of the hospital in Užic and Novi Varoša, 10 million for the replacement of the carpentry in pediatrics and gynaecology, 15 million for the reconstruction of the boiler room. Seven sanitary and field vehicles were purchased, numerous medical and computer equipment. By training and professional training, as well as by creating better working conditions, investment in all areas, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is constantly working to develop and raise citizens' living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32045	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32046	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers and guests, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4 following my previous amendments, as regards the protection of vulnerable social groups to the NOX Act. In fact, Article 4 of this Law is one of the principles of equal opportunities in the acquisition of qualifications and this principle is extremely important for the protection of vulnerable social groups and is aimed at gaining qualifications in the right of this category. Of course, I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the availability of education and in line with the equal opportunities for education, provides funding for low-traffic textbooks which primarily refer to students from socially materially endangered families and students with development and disability disorders. Also, I want to point out that this is very important for high school students, since we know that high school students are first and fastest trained to transfer their knowledge to the world of work. I must point out that the municipality of Priboj distinguishes material resources from the local budget, which is passed on to the distribution of social protection, in terms of strengthening the material position of families in difficult material conditions, which have children, or students. This support applies from primary to university education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32047	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32048	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a NOX law, which adds point 11 – Qualifications acquired – realisation of acquired knowledge in order to develop the whole of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to industrialisation. Article 4 defines NOX principles, and the point 11 I have proposed puts first the realization of bankruptcy knowledge, with a specific reference to industrialisation. The industrial process and production have always improved and progressed. This is especially so in modern times, when we need a fit that is ready for constant improvement. The simple operations that workers once performed manually replaced robots with already prepared programs. That is why we need personnel who are ready to constantly adapt to new processes, which require them to be constantly perfected and to do what the programmed machines cannot, to use acquired knowledge to solve unforeseen situations. These are processes in which we cannot be helped by programs and modern machines, but it is necessary that, based on knowledge acquired and lifelong learning and training, we give them the right commands to carry out a task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32049	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32050	Thank you. This amendment allows the competent body to identify those qualifications that need to be affirmed, i.e. to form the necessary jobs, so that the system can operate optimally. Knowledge as an economic resource is a necessary condition for economic growth and development. As an example, I am taking the "Neven" kindergarten in Baja Basta, which received the highest rating in Zlatibor County by the Commission for External Evaluation for reasons that the problem of the waiting list that has come from more than 100 children has been solved in less than seven months because we do not have a waiting list. However, in order to optimally realise the necessary needs and activities that require the reduction of existing groups, in order to meet legal standards, it is necessary to receive nurses and educators to plan additional activities such as extended stay and playroom, and the fact is that our kindergarten is one of the most equipped in the Zlatibor County. Since children are our greatest wealth, it is necessary to plan to expand capacities in order to ensure optimal number of children in the group in the future and adequate work with children, as well as the expansion of kitchens in order to achieve the necessary, quality and healthy diet of children. For all the above-mentioned citizens of Bajina Basta, they owe outstanding gratitude to local self-government, director of the "Neven" kindergarten, Mrs. Vesni Leštarevic, as well as to the restoring ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32051	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Dr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32052	Thank you, Chairman. The amendments I submitted to the National Qualifications Framework Law I wanted to point out that human resources are essentially based on future social economic development in the Republic of Serbia. Registration policy as an important part of it has been based on a more or less short-term approach in the past. In particular, the system of vocational education should follow the needs and priorities of the economy and the coherence of education and the needs of employers, as well as the needs of individuals and society in general and carry out measures and activities to help each individual to cope with the labour market as best as possible. Supporting learning mobility, understanding other cultures, using information technologies, knowledge of foreign languages is very important. Mobile student and mobile student is a future mobile worker who successfully builds his career on a variable labour market. Finally, the strategic goal of vocational education is to make lifelong learning and mobility realistic, to improve the quality and efficiency of education, to promote equality, social cohesion and active citizenship, to improve the creativity of innovation and entrepreneurship for the well-being of individuals and society in general, and this is the strategic goal of professional education in the Republic of Serbia, but also to inspire further processes of this type and in the region itself, on which the president of the state, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, the entire Government, of course, and the Ministry of Education at the head of Mr. Sarčević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32053	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32054	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, have also submitted an amendment to the Noxx Bill's proposal to add item 11 relating to the affirmation of acquired qualifications, etc. It's in the amendment. It is very important that when we talk about acquired qualifications, we also talk about their affirmation, i.e. the realisation of those skills that children, or students, acquire both in primary and secondary schools, and in colleges and hence amendments to Article 4. In September of last year, we passed several laws that represented the start of reform in education - the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Middle Education, and basic education and the Law on Dual Education. These days, the Law on NOK of the Republic of Serbia, on Educational Inspection, on textbooks, is on the agenda, and as the minister said, a number of laws await us in the summer or after the summer, one of which is one of the very important Act on Scientific and Research Action. When these laws are passed, which I hope will be positive, i.e. adopted in the Assembly, we will round up some legal framework relating to educational reform. This legal framework certainly is not a complete guarantee that everything will be the way we imagine it should be, but certainly without that legal framework, there is no change in the education system. For the full implementation of these above-mentioned laws, there is not only a legal framework, but also a ministry, and local self-government, and schools, and colleges, and inspections, and parents, and students and students participate in the implementation of these laws, and so do we, MPs who should be promoters of all these changes in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32055	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Krinakapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32056	I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this Law, which adds point 11 to the development of undeveloped municipalities. Education is the basis of life and development of each individual, society and state. It is the National Qualifications Framework in Serbia that regulates a qualification system that is obtained by education and training, and in line with the requirements of socio-economic development. It provides for the application of the concept of lifelong learning and enables the mobility of the workforce to be easier. The Republic of Serbia is developing NOX respecting the specificities of the Serbian education system, as well as the principles of European educational practice, and in particular the European qualification framework, i.e. The National Qualifications Framework, which allows for different ways, paths and acquisitions of qualifications of all levels in each lifetime through formal and informal education. Therefore, an individual acquires a qualification based on the verification of the standard achieved, after which he is assigned a public document, i.e. diploma for formal education or certificate for informal education. Qualification standards are contained in the catalogue of national qualifications. Standard qualification is a document describing qualifications and constitutes the basis for the acquisition of qualifications in professional education at a certain level of demand. It therefore established the professional competences necessary to carry out the work, as learning outcomes that can be achieved through different paths. Proposing Amendment 4 above all, we bear in mind that NOX users are state institutions, i.e. Ministry and public services in charge of statistics, business, human resources development experts, education, schools and private organisations, test bodies, interrogators, experts for... counselling, employment advisors and... In employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32057	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Stanja Compirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32058	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am submitting an amendment to the Law on the NoK of the Republic of Serbia - in Article 4. The bill is added to point 11) which reads: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications - realisation of acquired knowledge in order to fully develop the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the judiciary". The process of development in the Republic of Serbia is represented in all areas of our society - in the fields of education, health, justice, because we seek to live in a more modern society and we can only reach it by our knowledge, work and effort. That is why we are doing a lot of work in education reform, so that through these reforms we can get the most capable generations, able to preserve their country, to contribute to socio-economic development and development in every way. The reforms of the judiciary lead to an effective judiciary and make it possible for us to have justice, for all citizens of Serbia, to be tried within reasonable deadlines. It had to be done to improve efficiency and quality and to invest in the construction and adaptation of all business spaces in our country. New professions have also been introduced. Many laws have been passed and we seek even more efficiency in order to create an independent judiciary and a good business environment for the safety of every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32059	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32060	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in an affirmation of acquired qualifications, all my amendments were related to contact with the region, to Serbs in the region, but this time I would extend it to another people who says for themselves, and you will hear that if you get to know them, that Serbs are with Albanian names and Muslim faith. It is about the Gorans, a people who are in the most prominent part of Kosovo and Metohija, who suffer enormous pressures of Albanianisation, makedonisation, Bosniakism, but hold to their Djurdjevdan, to his faith and hold to his education that is exclusively under the Serbian programme. It is touching to enter these classrooms that look like from the XIX century, but, of course, it is proud to see a picture of Vuk Karadzic or "Kosovo Girls" by Urosa Predic in mobilization, in past problems that the state of Serbia has shown on whose side they are. My great friends are Serbs, and I am very glad that Minister Ruzic is here to deal with both the local and all state arrangements. I guess he knows this issue well, and, well, I'm asking him also to pay full attention to the Gorans, to help them stay who they are. After all, their only MP in the Pristina parliament is in the group with Serbian lawmakers. Mr. Adam Hoxha is also extremely loyal to the state of Serbia. Therefore, our development must be their development. We have to help that side, because whoever gives up a friend is eventually making a pact with the enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32061	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Bojan Bag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32062	In addition to amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3, I have proposed an amendment to Article 4 of this proposal of the Law, which proposes to add point 11 to this amendment, which is to further define the principles of the national qualification framework in order to ensure, in addition to the principles of lifelong learning, individuality, equal opportunities, accessibility, transparency, openness, partnership and co-operation, quality assurance and comparability, the principle of realisation, validation of acquired qualifications, and all in order to increase the efficiency of the judiciary. As the former DOS regime worked to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, we know from the case of judicial reform carried out in 2009, when they mutilated the Serbian judiciary with their decisions and tried to completely destroy it, insulting, humiliating, more than 1,000 people, who were then performing the functions of judges and prosecutors. Everyone whose name was not on the list of similar judges and prosecutors was exposed to the pillar of shame, declared to be indecent, unworthy, unskilled, and in fact the only problem was that they were all independent, independent of the yellow DOS - sheep cartel. We must not forget how the BIA, which did not have any legal authority to collect such data in any way and participate in the process of electing judges and prosecutors, was abused by law. At that time, like today, all those who destroyed and destroyed Serbia were tied up to one criminal bench, so Sasa Jankovic tried to cover it all up by giving a false report that BIA had not participated in illegal activities, but still Minister Snezana Malovic accidentally admitted all illegal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32063	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32064	I thank the chairman. And on Article 4, I have submitted an amendment that represents a logical link to my previous amendments, because it treats modernisation in the context of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad Mr. Ruzic is with us today, as Minister of State and Local Self-Government, I'd like to ask him how he looks at the citizens' initiative to call emergency local elections in the municipality? So, I will remind you, that this initiative was supported by nearly 20,000 Paracians, out of 49,000 enrolled in the voter list. A team before, given that Paracino's municipality is known for its numerous malfeasances, the last in a series of malfeasances took place the other day, or was published the other day when it was only informed that the director of the Construction Directorate had installed his godfather a 12.5 million dinar job, 12.5 million dinars. The problem is that the company that got the job was the only bidder, which is the company that was founded with 100 dinar capital, and it got a job of 12.5 million dinars. Paracino as the only municipality in Serbia in which the DS authorities have, I say, been known to sign more than 20,000 Paracians, in which an initiative to call emergency elections has been signed by more than 20,000, and I wonder what will the Ministry of State Administration do about it? It is a municipality that in 18 years' time, DS authorities absolutely cannot boast of any single investment, absolutely no investment for 18 years as long as Sasa Paunovic of the DS is in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32065	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32066	Thank you. Thank you for asking Ambassador Markovic. I noticed he asked an identical question yesterday. There are two levels, one level of question, but two levels of answer to the question, so one is legal, and the other is political. This political, indeed as a minister, I couldn't go down. The self-evaluation of how the situation is, of course, it's a matter, above all, for a political story. As for the legal basis, we all know very well what are the preconditions for calling emergency elections in one of the local self-government units. Of course, besides the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government there is the Ministry of Finance, a budgetary inspection. So, if the irregularities spoken of here are identified, unless a session of the local parliament is held for a period of three months, etc. But in any case, I think that this subject should certainly be handled in public, in a way, and looked at that fact, the power of legitimacy based on this people's, or the civil initiative that came into existence in local self-government. So, it certainly is a political message and certainly is a topic that politicians need to have first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32067	Thank you, Minister Rose. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32068	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Chairman, Ministers with Associates, Amendment to Article 4, in order to supplement the same by adding point 11, I have submitted as a logical trail and a series of amendments that I have submitted to the first three members. In particular, this amendment should facilitate and facilitate the application of Article 34 of this Law, which speaks of the recognition of foreign school documents, in relation to Article 9 of the same law, as regards the way qualifications are acquired. Here's why. In Article 9. The bill states that qualifications can be acquired through formal and informal education and through the process of recognising previous learning. This part of informal education, unless this amendment that I have proposed is accepted, which should provide really one more appropriate and greater social equality among the citizens to whom this law applies, then the problem will arise in which, practically, this part of informal education can be part of the package when recognising and determining the qualifications of those who are willing to do so. Therefore, I think this amendment should be considered seriously. I will for my amendment in the day of voting and voting, but I point out that he is indeed in a direct relationship and a logical trail and a series of amendments that have been submitted to the members of both 1, 2 and 3. They really can only as one complete package, if adopted, give some result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32069	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here are my colleagues, Lakatoš.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32070	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, NOKS is an instrument that regulates the area of qualifications and integration with the labour market. The NOX is the basis for applying the concept of lifelong learning and has a major impact on improving the education system of the Republic of Serbia and the impact on individuals. Since it provides the opportunity to acquire qualifications based on the needs of the labour markets and society in general, it will also affect Serbia's overall development, which we as a responsible society are seeking. By gaining new skills and changing professions, we will adapt to new conditions and thus increase labour productivity and reduce unemployment to a minimum. Article 4 of the proposed law defines the objectives of NOKS, and as I believe that Serbia's overall development particularly depends on the development of the school and education system, I would like to conclude that, in addition to this law in the voting day, we will also adopt the Law on textbooks and the Law on Educational Inspection, which will certainly contribute to the desired development of the school system. For all things said, I have submitted an amendment proposing to add item 11 in Article 4, which reads: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications, realisation of acquired knowledge, to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the development of the school system". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32071	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32072	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, my amendment further defines the principles of NOKS and the insults expressed by the former prime minister, who sits in this hall until he spends his insults on these laws, for example, can be the answer and reconstruction, namely energy efficiency at the elementary school "Emilija Ostojic" in Požega. The answer to his insults can also be the new mechatronics department at the Technical School in Požega. A man whose symbol is lifelong haughtiness, lifelong insolence, the story of lifelong schooling. The man who says he's trying to be funny and says that Aleksandar Martinovic studied four days less, shorter than Alexander Vukic, he studied less days than Alexander Martinovic. Insulting some colleagues, he said his faith was shaken. There's no need, there's a god, and if he's looking for physical evidence to exist, well, he was prime minister and we survived. Where'll you get better proof? And so we set a line between lifelong learning, everyday struggles for the better tomorrow, and those who have been boasting for life, have been insulted for life, have been sent to a lifelong opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32073	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32074	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just for the sake of the viewers to say, this is one of the less than 2,000 amendments to how many parties supporting the government have submitted to this session. The opposition has submitted almost 14 times more, or 26,452 amendments. I will try to defend this amendment and tell you that the wealth of a country will soon not be calculated by how much gold and diamonds there is, but by the amount of food and drinking water that this country can produce. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to eat a sweet fruit, you must plant a tree. If you want to eat delicious bread, you must sow wheat. The former regime's parties didn't respect it, and that's why we're where we are right now. They were used to picking, harvesting, not planting, not sowing, and their main product was long. So I believe that by agricultural production, processing, processing, energy and service, and three areas we can earn jobs and bread for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think the time we lived in, from the man in charge, not the man in charge, is far behind us. It is up to us, at this generation, to turn the matter into our advantage and to really make the money a slave, that is to make as much money as possible by producing the goods that will come to all of us in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32075	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32076	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regardless of what we heard in this classroom on the subject of education, regardless of all the praises sent to both the government and the minister, I am responsible for saying that the situation in Serbian education is far from what it should be. If we are not already in a position to raise that education to the desired level, if we are not in a position to give everyone adequate knowledge, at least we must try to get them as far away from ignorance as possible. The indicator of the success of an educational institution is not the level of professional knowledge adopted but, above all, other things. Education must be based on moral and patriotic principles. Without it, education is incomplete. It's like left and right shoes, one without the other just doesn't make sense. That this is so, that it is important to implant in education and moral principles and patriotism, I will give one piece of information. Soldiers will be better able to adopt what they should do with some patriotic song than with all the fighting tactics lectures. Also, let's say, experienced pilots, they better assess who's gonna be a good flyer than all the medical tests together. So, the situation in our education isn't exactly what I'm showing here, like a man who's been working for a long time in education, his entire working life, I know that's how it is. I'd like it to be better, but it's not nearly the way you want it to appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32077	Time. Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The word is Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32078	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the functioning of public enterprises. In the context of the interpretation of my amendment, I must say the following. Representatives of some parties, whose stand in the electoral body is measured in prominence, mentioned during the debate that the SNS amendments serve to praise the government's work. Well, unfortunately for you, and for our joy, there's a lot of reason. Gentlemen, it's nice that you've begun to understand, you've just forgotten the first letters of democracy. As the opposition has the right to criticise the government, it is also our right to commend it, the authority in which we are elected, to which we belong. As I come from Novi Sad, I will only mention some of the results of the city's SNS and Mayor Milos Vučevic, only as an example in the past few months, be careful, January-April 2018. In early April, railway traffic began across the Željev Bridge. The “Golden Creda” kindergarten in the city centre was reconstructed. The Centre for Research and Development of the Continental Company in Novi Sad opened. A contract was signed for the implementation of the three-year OPENS 2019 programme. Work is progressing to build a water and sewerage network in Veternik. The construction of sewers began in Petrovdan settlement in Kać. A friendly co-operation agreement has been signed between Corfu and Novi Sad. The new now presents 200,000 dinars to babies born on February 1st. The elementary school in Ledinci received a physical hall, etc. This is only a small part and an example of what the government and states achieve, headed by Alexander Vukic and the town of Novi Sad, led by Milos Vukevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32079	Thank you. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32080	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this law. Of course, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is what makes us SNS deputies first. Why? Because that's what we promised the citizens in 2012 when we got trust, and we justify that trust year after year. How? With responsible policy, we have managed to save the state of security of bankruptcy, and of course our responsible ministers are able to recover both education and health care and all other branches. Those MPs who have filed the most criticism on all these draft laws, on our supposed pointless amendments, are submitting meaningful amendments of the type "expunge". What's the point? They tried to wipe us out as a state by 2012. They tried and managed to destroy everything that we, with the responsible policy of our President, Mr. Vukic, managed to lift from the ashes and return to stable legs. That's why they're nervous today and the days before, and we're going to keep showing and showing all the good results we've achieved in the past few years and working for the benefit of the citizens, because taking care of the citizens is our primary goal of showing. If I were to talk about what has been achieved, both in the Rasin County and in my town of Krusevec, I think it would be a little and 10 hours of debate on the amendments to say it, but of course the support of citizens of over 65% in Krusevec shows that we are on the right track and, of course, support from over 60% in Serbia. So we move forward, and let them be angry, those who lose have the right to be angry, but not to insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32081	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32082	Thank you, Your Honor. My amendment concerns the affirmation of acquired qualifications, the realization of acquired knowledge in order to fully develop the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on financial stability. The introduction of technological newspapers into the work process implies that the staff have new skills to be introduced into the human and education development plans. Therefore, planning for human development cannot be done only quantitatively, but also qualitatively, and this includes education structure, abilities, skills and experience. Today, successful companies tend to establish co-operation with universities, at all levels so that young people can acquire the necessary skills. That is why it is of paramount importance for companies to find partners in the education sector. The reforms implemented that introduced dual education, digitisation has just helped to accelerate the process of development of the entire economy through the classification of professions, crafts and acquired abilities. As an example, I will list the Chinese factory "Meitau" in Obrenovac, which employs personnel trained in the production of motor parts and general industrial parts. The rapid development of information technologies leads to new views of companies according to values that contribute to a better market position and competitive advantage. This is undoubtedly a new knowledge economy, i.e. knowledge as a key economic resource. It is therefore important for companies to have professional, educated and quality personnel who will make their ability, creativity, motivation and knowledge a company competitive on the market. In this way, acquired skills and knowledge are realised, directly affecting the country's overall development and contribution to the country's financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32083	Thank you. I shall inform the MPs that, in accordance with Article 158, the time for the discussion of the applicants for the amendment has been exhausted. I'm setting a break by 2:45.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32084	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Maja Macužić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Stanislav Janosevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title and the title above Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Mirjana Dragas, Snezana Paunović and Ljubinko Rakonjac put together the title above Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlovic, Neđo Jovanovic and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Prophets Radet and Alexander Seselj together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 7th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Branka Stamenković and joint MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanović and Vjerica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members and members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Belačić and Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Bozidar Delic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added after Article 12, by a new member of 12a, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic together with the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together with a correction, submitted to the 14th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Bauer, does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32085	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law. I will read item 4 in the original text – The Agency shall report to the Government on the work for the previous year no later than 1 April of the current year, and shall also submit an exceptional three-month report or report on the performance of a job at the request of the Ministry of Education's department within 20 days. My suggestion is to make two changes in this point 4. The first concerns changing the word "periodic" in this context to "periodic reports", in three-month reports. I think that's a more precise definition. The second amendment concerns the deadline within which this report is submitted which states in the original text that it cannot be shorter than 20 days. My proposal was to put a 15-day deadline. What's the idea? I refer to the law on enforcement and security which considers it to be a superior definition of working days than ordinary days, because very often it can happen that because of some holidays 20 days is a deadline that is much shorter than 15 working days. For this reason, we believe that the 15-day working days are far more appropriate than 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32086	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Branka Stameković and joint MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together with a correction, submitted to the 15th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović together with the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together with a correction, submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vjerica Radeta and LJjiljana Mihajlović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together with a correction, submitted to the 17th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32087	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have submitted an amendment to Article 17 on its position 6 or point 2) which reads in the original text – it is the conditions when a member of the Management Board of the Agency can be resolved, and Article 2 says - if he fails to fulfil the duties of a member of the Management Board, he shall not fulfil the conditions for appointment unless he fulfils the obligations provided for by this or a special law or act establishing an agency or if he is convicted of a criminal offence on a sentence of at least six months. We have suggested that this definition "convicted of a criminal offence to a sentence of at least six months" be changed by a different definition, i.e. if convicted of a criminal offence which makes it unworthy to perform this function. Why did we think this definition was better? Because someone can be sentenced to a prison sentence less than six months or to a probation, but regardless of what he's done disqualifies him to perform one of these functions, or he can be sentenced to a sentence that lasts longer than six months, for example for some traffic violation that doesn't have to be discredited at all costs to perform this function. That's why we thought it was a better definition this six months, a definition that says someone who doesn't meet the conditions can be resolved in the sense that he's convicted of a crime that makes him unworthy of performing this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32088	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanović and the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together with a correction, submitted to the 19th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić and together MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together with a correction, submitted to the 20th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 21st amendment with the correction, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together submitted an amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague, Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32089	Here, this is one of the ten amendments that the government has accepted on the bill, and in total it has accepted 17 amendments from this hill of amendments that have 400, I think, if not close to 500, to this law. The government accepted 17, and of those 17, ten amendments were those written by the MP group enough. There are a few amendments that have been adopted in order to increase labour transparency, but the largest number of these amendments relate to the written and spelling errors contained in this amendment. We see here that the legislator didn't have enough time, enough inspiration to hear enough expert arguments in the morning to present some other amendments that would convince him to possibly accept another one. Because, when it comes to this law, we really did have an extremely large number of amendments submitted, most of them were from SNS MPs and their coalition partners. I just have a question, and where's your bill promoter, the authorised representative of the legislator? We don't have Minister Sarčević...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32090	counterpart Stamenkovic, both ministers have been authorised, the government has the right to propose that any member be empowered.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32091	Okay, thanks for the information. After these amendments, who's been listening to these two and a half days, I can understand why he can't sit in this tide anymore. I just wanted to ask you the same thing - what have we done in these two and a half days, discussing these 300 amendments to the first four members of the first law? What have we done for the citizens of Serbia? What benefit do Serbian citizens have from the previous two days and today's afternoon? Have we improved the solutions in this law, because amendments serve that? That MPs propose amendments to the law so that citizens will be better off tomorrow when the same laws in practice begin to apply. Did we do it while we spent ten hours representing the amendments, I wouldn't say, I think the only thing we did was spend two days costing on something completely different and not having our citizens' interests in the first place. What we've been listening to for the past two and a half days can be taken under the expression of love to Alexander Vukic, and that's okay, that's okay, love is important. Love drives the world, I support it, but the National Assembly is no place to express love for Alexander Vukic, the National Assembly is a place to express love for the citizens who chose us in this assembly, to represent their interests here. (Jasmina Obradovic: How many citizens gave you votes in previous elections? ) A colleague throws – and how many citizens gave you votes in previous elections? Well, that's what I explained to you, colleague, a month ago, you didn't remember, I'll have to do it again. So, the SNS won 45% of the vote in Belgrade and you think it's your vote, you think the citizens voted for you. They voted for pâté, not SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32092	My colleague Stamenkovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32093	I've already explained it to you once and you haven't realized it, it's no problem, I'll repeat it from the beginning until you realize it. You have completely manipulated the election process in both pre-election and post-election. We don't have free elections, we don't have elections for citizens' representatives, we have elections for pâté, because the people are hungry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32094	I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32095	For what? Can I have an explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32096	Here, you'll get an explanation. Because on the lists they plead for some candidates, not pâtés. Do not violate the dignity of the MPs who have been elected from some electoral lists and call them pâtés.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32097	The MPs first raised the question of election results. I have the right to my opinion and my consideration.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32098	I didn't hear you, colleague. You were the only one who spoke in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32099	You didn't hear, because when you throw it on the right, you don't hear it, because it's a tradition of parliamentaryism, and when I'm on the left, it's for punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32100	Comrade, let me read your amendment that has been accepted. In point 3 after the word ‘year’, the expression ‘interpunctuation’ is added. ‘’, in point 4, the character of the interpretation ‘;’ is replaced by the sign ‘. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So, your amendment, you should know when you're writing something, every law before it gets published has a review of the editorial commission and colleagues of the editorial commission are very grateful to you for making it easier for them to work on the dots and the score. That's your amendment. Keep talking about your amendment, not about the love for Alexander Vukic, that love is the right of citizens, who have shown it in some elections. I don't consider those who haven't voted to be hated by the citizens, so I ask you not to act like you hate your colleagues and insult them, but to continue on your points and marks. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32101	Thank you, Chairman, for reading my amendment, but you haven't read it entirely. The amendment corrects four letters, spelling and grammatical errors.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32102	I said, that's what the editorial committee does.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32103	Let me say something now, don't get in my word. If I could, I would punish you now, but I can't. I also remind fellow MPs and the public of Serbia that these bills were sent to the National Assembly by the Ministry of Education. If it's okay for you to come to the National Assembly with laws with spelling, grammatical, technical and literal errors, then it's up to you. The minister apparently considered it inadmissible, and therefore my amendments were accepted. As much as you respect education and everything else, it's clear from the fact that in the last two and a half days you've missed out on the subject and the first-class teacher would get all units in a row. So much for me on this occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32104	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32105	Sign-up by the law of replica, Mr. Chairman, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32107	Thank you very much. On the subject of those witty remarks, I must confess to the moments of very professional, directed SNS, on the subject of love, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the inexorable pate. What have we been doing for the past two days? We have discussed topics that are, of course, important for the National Assembly and of course important for the citizens of Serbia who are following this and concerning current topics, such as the situation related to the airport in Nis, concern those things that should always be important, such as economy, development, modernisation, investment. As we show our relationship to the National Assembly, there is one who will judge. On the other hand, what is the contribution of those who have, however long it has lasted, followed from the restaurant all the time, I couldn't recognize that they have made a contribution on their own. It's probably where the pate fascination came from. And last session, here's this one, whenever we come to a discussion in particular, some of them follow it exclusively from a congregation restaurant. When it comes to love, I can only recognize the love of a restaurant, where it's nice and happy to have lunch. When it comes to, I can even quote it – I mean, we don't have a free choice. I agree in this respect that those who have said it speak for themselves, they do not have free elections. First of all, there are some elections in their organization, which I can't even call political, it's a strictly interesting organization, whether it's a citizens' association, or whether it's a group of citizens, mostly a place where money flows, either from the Assembly, or from a register where membership fees are paid. They don't have any free elections there, but they don't know who's left behind, who's not, who's a member who isn't, how many candidates and teams they have. I agree, it's a very big problem and it should be dealt with equally by investing energy as on pâté, maybe then they'll be somewhere above, as it was, the 1.4%. Is that it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32108	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32109	Thank you, Chairman. You've injured Article 109. You've just established a practice that when you say the word pâté, the MP gets a warning. Since Mr. Orlic has twice used the word pâté, please give him two warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32110	It was not a reminder that the pâté was mentioned, but because a colleague called the committee candidates pâtés, which is why a warning was given, twice, and MPs, of course. (Sasa Radulovic: No, MPs. And MPs, of course. (Branka Stamenkovic: Let me explain. You like metaphors like that, I don't mind. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you should have been in accordance with Articles 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, following the presentation of the lady, to apply stricter measures, even after the presentation of fellow Radulovic. So, they're not offended by pate, they're insulted by Serbian citizens. It's not said that pâtés are a voice, but that citizens voted for pâtés. This offends all those who voted in the Belgrade elections. It's not us, Mr. Chairman, who blames the people for not having them. It's not our fault they brought themselves into bankruptcy. So it's not our fault that they became "rasulovic companies". (Radoslav Milojic: Criminals. We didn't join them with the "Bos' Left Hand", we didn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32112	Mr. Milojitsu, I give you a warning. (Radoslav Milojic: For what? Because you called your colleagues criminals across the street. (Radoslav Milojic: I didn't call him. My colleagues across the street, I don't know who they were referring to. (Radoslav Milojic): I did not call him, but those who insult Serbian citizens. () Continue, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32113	It's not my fault she calls her right hand left, which she calls her left hand right. I believe they're confused. Mr. Chairman, after their self-inflicted introduction, I suggest they bring in that guitar to play something for us by colleague Radulovic and Bosko can sing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32114	I don't think I've violated any of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, and certainly the strictest penalties are imposed by citizens in the elections, which is why I'm stricter than that to punish them. I can't even get close as a citizen. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32115	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising a member of 108, and I'd like you to tell me why I got a warning. Do you hear what members of the ruling majority, who do all that I say, harass citizens, beats, arrests, pay votes of 15 thousand dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32116	I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32117	Thank you. Why did I get a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32118	You accused all MPs of beating, arresting, paying their votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32119	That's right. It's done everywhere in Serbia. The chairman of the municipal board of DS in Mionica, Milan Gavrilovic, was brutally beaten, with serious physical injuries by SNS members.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32120	You're the judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32121	Go around Serbia a little bit, and see what is done. What's going on in Nis, that's the response of citizens who can't stand what they've been doing for six years. It's just one glass, one drop in the sea. Are you telling me you don't know about Danilo Bobic being kidnapped during the election process? That the members of the DS at the Smederjev Palace were threatened with a gun? There's a record of a police investigation being conducted. Even in Mionica and the president of the SPS or vice president, he was beaten. There was Djordje Milicevic when our Milan Gavrilovic was beaten, but they are the authorities so they cannot react, and we want to react. Not because of the DS, but because of the citizens. Take my time off, since I have the time of the parliamentary group, it's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32122	You don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32123	We've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32124	What about three minutes? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32125	How exactly did you make that mistake that we don't have time? So you can take away my time. We are in voting day, when Minister Sarcevic was here, I said that the Law on Electronic textbooks is good, but that it is not compatible with the financial situation in which students and their parents are located.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32126	I thank my colleague Milojičić. (Radoslav Milojic): Three minutes has not passed, and I have three minutes left. No, you received the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, so I am obliged to answer your advertising that I have violated the Rules of Procedure in one part. You know, I can't answer or think something based on some information, but what I do know is that when the elections were held in Kostolc, they were in Kostolc all day long and that no one was harassing you and that no one threatened you and that you didn't miss the hair on your head. You'll get time, don't worry about anything, and then you've lost that election and won the SNS list, the SPS by 65%. It means there was no coercion, that the citizens were voting. You witnessed it, you were there, I was with you, you didn't miss anything. I was worried that something might happen to you, because I know you're provoking to insult people to attack you. Nothing happened to you, and you lost that election at 65%, so she got the SNS list. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica, a parliamentary group was mentioned. () Just first to see on what basis? (Radoslav Milojevic: I am in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Can't be a colleague of Nejo Jovanovic's. (Nedjo Jovanovic: It was the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. ) Col. Milojic, three minutes from the parliamentary group, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32127	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First, for the truth's sake, we weren't at the same table, we were at the same restaurant. On the other hand, it is true that nothing happened to me in Kostolac, as nothing happened to me personally in the Smederjevska Palanca, or in Mionica, or Kovina, or in all the places where I stayed as president of the executive board during the election campaigns, and it would still be missing for you from SNS to harass MPs. You didn't get to that level, and on the other hand, I think you know that I wouldn't feel that threat. I'm not such a Christian that when someone slaps me to turn my other cheek and you probably know it, so you don't act like it. You can't, 14 elections have been held in the last year and a half, from Negotina, Mionica, Arangelovac, Kostolac, Kovin, in all other places, Vrbasa, everywhere SNS harasses all employees, blackmails every citizen, bribes. How many social aids have you given in all municipalities two days before the election? Millions and millions of social aid dinars and what's legitimate, what's democratic. You cannot say that elections in Serbia are conducted in a fair and democratic manner. They're conducted under duress, harassment, threats. Every employee who works in a public enterprise...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32128	My friend Milojicic, I'll give you your time, just tell me if I'm going to interpret this as an answer to my explanation why the Rules of Procedure isn't hurt, what do you have no right to do? You may request a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, or you may discuss the amendment. I need to know that the service would know how to define that time for you. (Radoslav Milojic: The basis is the time of the parliamentary group. You can't answer to me for your injury. (Radoslav Milojic: I address the citizens of Serbia, who also suffer... ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32129	I thank you, Chairman. You've hurt Article 27. It refers to handling the debate during the session, because you have allowed the classical abuse of Rules of Procedure by the MP who spoke before me. I think that kind of tolerance according to the way the Rules of Procedure is misused is inadmissible. You have to have zero tolerance here, because instead of hurting the Rules of Procedure, you're talking about other topics and other things entirely. It's the SPS, some kind of beating, etc. What does this have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and what does that have to do with what we discussed today? I ask that you continue to sanction every step and every attempt of abuse, as Mr Milojic did, and especially because it is about the deception of citizens and the insult of citizens, and therefore the insult of this House, this Parliament, the insult of that huge number of citizens who are their democratic right to vote, and that is the right to vote, they take advantage of it in the right way. They used it. And the insult of this home and those of our citizens that we represent is precisely that so many in thousands, tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands, such as in Belgrade, who used their right to vote as they used it, are asked as an alibi for that minor score of 2.2 or 1.4%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32130	A colleague of Jovanovic, I have also risked having my tires pierced on the car, told Mr. Milojic two warnings, but simply, there are only two sanctions left – taking words and disfellowshipping from further work. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vladimir Orlic Oh, that's after the amendment. [[Vladimir Orlic: It is a replica. This was by amendment.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32131	I'm using the line right now. Mr. Chairman, for the first ten seconds, first of all, messages for you, when a MP like this just now expressed his desire to take away his time to argue, I think we should go out to meet that wish. So, think about it, if he repeats that desire, I believe he will, he seems in this very mood, and he seems to me to know what he's doing. Why are we listening to all this, ladies and gentlemen? There are at least two reasons. One concerns the elections mentioned earlier, only this time elections in non-existent political organisations, and also those of interest who say they are political, it turns out they are neither registered. That's the first reason. The other is certainly in direct connection with all these elections that have been organised, someone recently listed 14, recently in the Republic of Serbia at different levels. Now, you see, when someone in 14 consecutive elections passes as a boss by the thorn, and today they're below the censorship line, he can only perform like this for a little while, he can try to take advantage of the situation, that in his own completely devasted company that is not worth anything today, he chooses a place for himself under such completely extraordinary circumstances. Because of these, before the world, internal or intragroup, what do I call those out there, choices, we are now attending our own campaigns. I'd like to welcome the intensities that some people, like those who are self-releasing now, come to the head of their organizations. I want to say hello, because if they came to the very top and now they became executives, directors, bosses, presidents of anything, it would certainly cement the fate of these and such organizations, an organization that, I see, has arrived today a current research, found deep below the censorship line. If we had parliamentary elections today, only the SNS, the SPS, our coalition partners, could enter the National Assembly. Everyone else could watch the transfers from the congregation to the house, they couldn't, and I end up, Mr. Chairman, having no greater benefit for the citizens who care so much about them that, using permanent legitimacy, they sometimes stop at a congregation restaurant, which is most important to them in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32132	The word is made by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32133	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 106. So, since he came to the O.R. 15 minutes ago, since he hasn't been here in the last three days, he has been speaking according to his amendment about SNS, Mionica, Kovina, Nis Airport, the electoral process, public enterprises, etc. Is it possible that all these areas concern his amendment and is it possible that we are here to listen to whatever the MP here wants to talk about? For the sake of truth, as he himself said, and for the sake of the public, and especially for the sake of the citizens of Nis, I must say that I object in this sense to the mention of the airport in Nis by the fellow concerned, precisely because we know what the democratic government left us in Nis, which is debts, debts that the city of Nis could not pay off until today. And all that is happening in Nis, all these protests that are happening in Nis are happening because of a contract that was concluded in 2010 by Milos Simonovic, then the mayor of Nis, who was from the DS. Because you, of course, can't, I don't expect you to know in advance who's going to talk about it, I'm not going to ask the Assembly to declare this injury to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32134	Thank you. The word has the People's MP George Komlenski, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32135	Thank you. I do not agree with my colleague Orlic that a colleague who spoke before had passed as a boss by the thorn, because I simply cannot believe that two million and 300,000 dinars robbed from the Smederjevska Palanka budget spent in the Nale sport sport sports store for the purchase of ducks managed to tear or execute all this time. Only if his legs are too big, then he's got another problem. As far as his famous wetlands related to the debate under this amendment are concerned, it is likely that another of the most beautiful art and successes was the merger of cadastres and land books in Smederjevska Palanca, when the city land of 2.7 hectares of state prescribed, of which 1.7 acres per private face and its paitos, where the bar was now made. Another 0.7 hectares on another physical face, and little remains for that famous invention facility, a facility that was run as a sports club "Jasenica 1911". How well they did there, obviously, so they could clean up all of his shoes he managed to get dirty and use for this time. They had to work four economies and five guards and six stadium managers, who today look for and sue for 850,000 dinars of unpaid wages. So, if it's barefoot, they probably took these shoes to settle their claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32136	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32137	Thank you. Well, first of all, I think there's a lot of things allowed in this high house, but just so much ignorance that it's not known that moving from land books to catastrans is the jurisdiction of the Republic and that the Republic did it, that it's not the jurisdiction of local self-government, so much ignorance is just as fascinating. Well, good. I must commend the speaker who spoke before the last one. He'll be the president of the assembly. We hear that fighting in the SNS is a big deal. I would like Mr. Orlic to be the speaker of the assembly, because whenever we think that the SNS can't be worse than some solution, they set up Minister Vulin as defence minister. Whenever we think she can't do worse than what she's been doing in these six years, then we get Bata Gasic at the head of a serious institution like BIA. Now, only, dear citizens whose SNS cut salaries, cut pensions, collected electricity excises, raised electricity prices, now we're just short of Serbia as a member, i.e. The president of the Assembly, the third most important function in the country, is Mr Orlic. But given that we have Bata Gasic and Mr. Vulin, I have no problem. I've always tried my life, that's how I raise my children, and even in politics, people who do this hard work with me right now, to tell the truth. I call on a previous speaker from the Socialist Party of Serbia, if he is not a member of the SPS in 2014, beaten in Mionica, as well as Milan Gavrilovic, if he is not beaten, I will resign. If it is, that the predecessor from the SPS who said that I brought the truth here commits himself to resign to the parliamentary term, and the witness was Djordje Milicevic, vice president of the Assembly, with whom I stood in the hallway, because our party premises are in the same place. It is not a topic in such an important law, but you cannot constantly deceive all citizens of Serbia. (President: Bringing the end. ) You can't deceive how great lives are being lived in Serbia, and 50,000 children, which is related to this amendment, we're hungry, 50,000 children are out of lunch... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32138	Thank you, fellow Milojits. I'm just asking you not to replace the officials. (Radoslav Milojic): No one mentions the people. I see you've already appointed a new president of the Assembly. (Radoslav Milojic: Orlic fights for it, I support it. ) First, right to replica, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32139	Just to thank you for your good wishes. If someone accidentally asks me what I'd like most, I'd like the longer I get to have the best of the best, political geniuses, explain why they're as successful as they are. So what we're doing right now. When we talk about parties, to commend the extraordinary courage of the "yellow company" to form a task force to examine how they came to be, is right, fellow Komlenski, not barefoot, but much worse than today. When someone forms a task force, which puts in its conclusion, I quote, that they themselves, during the time they burned and burned Serbia, set up competitions, set up tenders, that they were building a percentage, when they called themselves yellow thieves in their party document, I think it deserves only to be highlighted as an outstanding example. Those are their words. It's not something anyone on this side said, and I'm not making that up right now. I'm just repeating their words in their own, party document. The document, which not only did they not challenge, but yesterday's director of the "yellow company", the proud owner of the return pastures, currently in the resignations, says the moment he resigned with tears in his eyes -- ours, the thoughts of theirs, who published it and gave it to the press, they shot me in both my legs during the previous campaign, they hit my artery and they shot our party. So the man confirms the authenticity of these words, the authenticity of these findings, and he confirms that they have done themselves harm, which they have proved to be more honest than they are apparently able to bear. As far as resigning, they can all resign and become presidents of their own interested association. There's absolutely no difference between one and the other. Whatever they're called, whether they're formal or not, they'll still be in position – here's one big nothing, over-indebted, which Dragan Gilas is an excellent interest, which even a censor can't see and protect well. I think that says enough about their fate and the seriousness of the offers they make here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32140	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32141	I thank you, Chairman. Because of Serbian citizens, it is interesting to fascinate the Socialist Party of Serbia from individual parties, I say certain parties, from the opposition, this time and today, especially from Mr Milojic. Since he's been cheating on the public all along, I have to do it again. Not a single moment, and as can be seen from transcripts of conversations that were conducted today, or discussion, I have not mentioned any beating and any beating. I was talking about something else entirely. Whoever didn't listen to me is his problem. It's really his problem. But what is far greater is the problem of those who impute it to the Socialist Party of Serbia and fascinate the Socialist Party of Serbia, is their destiny. Let Mr Milojic not worry about the Socialist Party of Serbia, he should worry about the fate of the Democratic Party, he should worry about what will happen to the future of the Democratic Party. I really have no intention of commenting on that. That is their problem, and I hope that this problem will finally be seen, since they are still obviously not seeing it the right way, and we are, thank you, well, as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia and our coalition are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32142	Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32143	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, when someone against whom a criminal case is being conducted in front of the republican public prosecutor's office in Smederev, number 780/2017, because of the abuse of buying and selling land and facilities of former JNA House in Smederjevska Palanca, it gives itself the right to speak of Alexander Vulin, it is indeed an act that completely loses all meaning. It is foolish to respond to such comments coming from this population, but as much as Alexander Vulin does his job well, Mr Sergei Shyg said about the degree of co-operation between Serbia and Russia, he says more than enough about all this. How much of the truth is being told by the gentleman who is here today, we don't know what woke him up so late, he also speaks the message of Mr. Danil Bobic of Vrbasa, who asked me to say here in front of Serbian citizens that he sought and insisted on Mr. Milojic not to take his name in his mouth anymore and not to embarrass him. I have to agree with Mr. Pajtic, unfortunately, who once declared that he was left behind in a party where Mr. Milojic's ship was a lunatic. Given all that and that ship has no captain, I hear he's the best candidate for a captain who's definitely gonna kick ass on all the rocks right now, the gentleman who spoke a little earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32144	Right to the replica, for mentioning the name. Here you go, colleague Milojits.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32145	Mr. Arsic, when an MP tells you - a crazy ship, doesn't seem strange and doesn't seem to warn the previous speaker, who was just talking about his minor party where he is, they refer to themselves that way? Since they were sending cannons to students in the 1990s, their president and they, I think it would be much better for the citizens of Serbia if the previous speaker, who was in Alexander Vulin's party, took note that, unfortunately, last week, another Serb military member had been killed in Nis, for lack of control. I think it's a tragic situation where members of the Ministry of the Interior find themselves. I think the even more tragic situation is that during 2017, 72% of Serbian military members who left the military did so on a personal request. The army was once the most trusted institution of citizens, of course, until Alexander Vulin came to her forehead. Now the Army is an institution to escape from. You'd be able to break a marble, as our people would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32146	My friend Milojic, don't say that. You were very small then, in your words, you were five, six years old, but you were old enough in 2008 when your regime killed Ranko Panic. (Radoslav Milojic: Our regime? What are you talking about? Yes. The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32147	In fact, I only now understand why the former captain of this ship who escaped with his head, regardless of the last Belgrade elections, was actually destroying complete units, tanks, and everyone else. This seems to be some childhood trauma that remained, and I was convinced all along that they were doing it to buy the return pastures and build buildings on the return pastures and because schools about how the military should be destroyed were studying in the West and they had no good words and good relations with traditional Serbian friends Russia. We can't expect those who'd probably spoil an anvil to worry about losing a hair on their heads. They shouldn't be afraid. I, unfortunately, have more hair on my head than some who talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32148	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Let me just check... After my colleague Radeta's office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32149	Mr. Arsic, I beg you, for the sake of the public, that when you call the MPs, you do not say that no one answers the word. You know that the time to discuss amendments is limited, that we Serbian radicals have used the maximum time available to us, that we would of course continue to do so, but since we do not have a Rules of Procedure, we are already using a provisional Rules of Procedure, that is, you know, the one from DOS time that you have been highly criticised when it has applied to you, and I ask you to find some form of another. It's a simple misinformation of the public, so you can say - the People's MP of the Prophet Radet, submitted an amendment, if anyone is answering, no, thank you. That's just not true. I would very much like to speak on the amendment, like all of us Serbian radicals, but unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow, or we no longer have time at our disposal, and I recommend you, that it is that it takes a little more time for you, but you are where you are, you have to do this job, so please say nicely - that the MP Verica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Peric, whoever submitted the amendment to that and that member, but since they no longer have time at their disposal, we move on to the next amendment. Here, I taught you how to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32150	Thank you. I've learned a lot of good things from you, but I have to tell you that right now you're wrong, because there are MPs who have the right to discuss your amendment. I have to ask every time do any of them want to discuss your amendment? So I didn't make any mistakes in any of the formulations. I'm sorry, but that's right. Who's got the time? ) There is also a parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Dveri, has the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist Movement has time. (Miss Radeta: By the Rules of Procedure.) ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32151	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 again, too, but attitude two, now let me teach you a little bit more. You know, according to the Rules of Procedure, the priority for the word by amendment is the applicant of the amendment, so now you have to say a little bit more, let's say, let's say, once again - the amendment to the member and that one, was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta, since the applicant of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure no longer has time to speak, does anyone else appear by amendment? Then you'll really have to, or you should do it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32152	I'm sorry, Radeta, but the rules are rules, I didn't make them up, it's been done like that for years. I'll read it means nice as it says here for us to prepare the sessions, the 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Dubravko Bojic, and continues to write – does anyone want a word and have a description of the amendments? What difference does it make to what it says here? There's a Rules of Procedure. ) Nowhere does it say that I must first ask if the promoter wants to make a statement to speak. No, I don't. I have to give him my word first if he wants to discuss it. According to the businessman Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32153	Mr. Arsic, you are a man who knows very well that the course of the session does not depend on it, you have demonstrated it more times than what is written there, because you are not just a speaker. You're a politician and vice president of the Assembly. With a broad understanding of what is going on in the congregation, you must continue to hold a session so that the public is not led astray. You can hypothetically, perhaps Mr. Orlic when he does, say some that you, Mr. Orlic, will be the new president of the assembly, will not be needed this, as Becic would say, synopsis. Perhaps you will know from your head what the amendments are on the agenda and you will go well and read or from the E Parliament, it does not say anything – that – no, but you, with your free interpretation, as it happens in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in some other parliaments, where there is a list of speakers and chaired in its own way interprets what it will, calls someone etc. It says that to you – yes and no, because I know because I was on two occasions vice president of the Assembly, so we all got these synopsiss. As it says, the services do, but now that you, as a colleague of Radeta said, would be correct towards the SRS, according to each of us individually, according to the public, she explained it nicely, you just have to say that the applicant has no more time, if anyone else wants a word. We just wanted to intervene so no one would think because it is impossible for anyone in Serbia to think that the name Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric, Nemanja Sarovic, Miljan Damjanovic, Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, is read that we do not want a word. That would be a precedent really, and you'd be surprised if that was possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32154	counterpart Jovanovic, a colleague, Marinkovic, as he chaired, informed the Serbian public that the circumstances set out in Article 158(5) had occurred. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'm going to quote it, so from time to time I'm going to remind you that every applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot be longer than 10 hours, or six minutes. I'm saying there's been this circumstance before about 150 amendments and don't expect me to mention it every time. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: What if someone had come from work now and included watching the Assembly? I said I'd say that from time to time. I'll quote the whole article. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32155	On the basis of Article 32, as a colleague of the vice president, I am truly obliged to help. I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure. Please, what you just said makes absolutely no sense. Do you think, as one of your MPs said today – I remind viewers or remind the audience that we are in the theater, that someone bought a ticket and sat in front of the TV and watched until the session was over. This session is open to the public. Various people, Serbian citizens, come from work, go to work, go there, find time, will and desire to watch the Assembly in some period, in some period they can't do it and what counterpart Marinkovic said, you or anyone who saw one or a number of people two hours ago. After that, people listen to what you call it. The Belief of Radet does not appear by amendment. That's absolutely unacceptable for any of us in the SRS. If you call someone and he's really not here, we know why he's not here, for legitimate reasons, it doesn't matter, but if we're sitting here so you don't say it, you're obliged to say it at the end – the amendment to Article 6 was submitted by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet, given that there's no longer any time in the Rules of Procedure to explain the amendment, I'm asking the other MPs, who have that time, if anyone's answering the word. It's very simple. It takes your time, but you know, when you wrote as many amendments as you did, you should have known that you would be obliged to read a little longer, to sit there a little longer, to vote a little longer, etc. You chose it yourself. So you have to until you suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32156	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. I don't think there's any breach of the Rules of Procedure, especially in the part where there's not even a debate, there's no... . (The Faith of Radeta: I want the Assembly to declare all these injuries that I have caused so far.) ) The congregation will declare all your injuries. The 23rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the Prophets Rade and Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic, Jasmina Karanac. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Karanac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32157	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Ruzic, respected co-workers of local self-government and education ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our amendment refers to Article 23, more precisely, point 8 of the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework. In order to be clear, I will read you a few points of this article and we will come to the disputed point 8). In its original form, this member reads: “The Ministry of Education Affairs shall monitor the application of this law, adopt a methodology for the development of qualifications standards on a proposal from the Agency, connect the NOKS with the EQS, adopt the standard of qualification, adopt standards for self-valuation and external verification of the quality of JPO, carry out the tasks of the national coordination point” and when we have reached point 8) says “and other jobs according to this law”. Which could be translated by the Ministry of Education and Other Affairs in accordance with this Act. We have suggested that the sentence in point 8 be added: “It also does other things according to this law. Our amendment does not change the essence of this article, but it formulates it more precisely, and I suggest you reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32158	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Bozidar Delic submitted together to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radet and Tomislav LJubenović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 27th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Verica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments of the Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Prophets Rade and Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Bozidar Delic submitted together to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Petar Jojic submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) 30/6MG/IĆ The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic jointly submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic submitted together to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vesnica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted together to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj and together by MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj and together by MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted together to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the Prophets Rade and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 47th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj, together with the MPs of the DS, submitted together to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Verica Rade and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 50th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Republic of Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 50th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj, and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the People’s Republic of Rade and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Ružica Nikoklic and Aleksandar Seselj and together MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE WORDS You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected it as incomplete amendments to the People's MPs: Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic to members 22, 24 and 26. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Club of Independent Members together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Club of Independent MPs submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the title above the members and the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic together submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vesović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we have what time we have as an authority and time of the parliamentary group, kept talking about these amendments and the Law on textbooks. At first, I will express my regret that there is no Mr. Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević, because he was appointed before the National Assembly Government and I liked to discuss these amendments with him. We who love geese say: “I liked being with him today just in the words, but I'm afraid he's not, I guess there's work to be done,” so he's not here. The member we propose to change is the 5th member and to delete in that 5th section of point 4. It is, in fact, textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities. We in the Serbian Dvora Movement have no problem with Article 1, Article 2 and Article 3 where Article 1 says it can be a textbook in the language and letter of the national minority issued on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 2, it is a textbook in the language and letter of the national minority, which is the translation of textbooks approved in Serbian. In Article 3, this is an addendum to the textbook used to implement the intended part of the teaching and learning programme on the subject of importance for the national minority. But we certainly have a big problem with Article 4 which says it's a language textbook and a letter from a national minority issued in a foreign country, which is chosen under this law. What was chosen under this law a little lessened by this first story that it was a textbook published in a foreign state. I ask the gentlemen of the Ministry of Education, who is present here, if she has had a chance to see what textbooks look like to be published in the surrounding countries that were created by the devastation of the first and then by this other state. Hanging out with my Serbian friends from Montenegro, I had a chance to watch what textbooks for their children look like for history or geography. In Serbia, among other things, we have given them the right to speak, and do you know what the textbook says? Do you know, for example, that textbook says that Serbia occupied Montenegro in 1918? And how can we as a state that takes care of our national interest allow such a thing to enter into a teaching programme for national minorities in the state of Serbia? I don't want to talk about textbooks that have been published in neighbouring countries or used in the territory of self-proclaimed so-called so-called. "The countries of Kosovo", which will be able to use members of national minorities in the so-called "Presevo Valley". It is absolutely unsustainable for this fourth position of this fifth member to remain in the bill because it can open up a number of issues that can have a wide variety of controversies in the time that comes before us. That's why I'm really sorry, and that's why I've been quoting the geese, why there's no Mr. Sarcevic, because he's one of the ministers who's always ready to go into the controversy and in the debate under the name of the people's MPs, but unfortunately for me, it's not a question of what my grief is, but to the detriment of the citizens, this will remain in the law, and this amendment has been rejected. I'm going to be speechless, Mr. Ruzic, with all due respect for him, is not a man who deals with this problem and it is not a question of his ministry, so I don't think he can be competent to give me an answer. Unfortunately, it's going to stay the way it is, and that's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32160	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Natasa Vučković, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the title above members and Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32161	Thank you. Article 10. The law on textbooks prescribes that the government can, and therefore does not have to, make a decision every year to separate or not separate some of the funds, larger or smaller, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to obtain some amount of textbooks for some children in the Republic of Serbia. The amendment I made in front of the DJB parliamentary group went towards changing and changing the member, so it clearly states that every year the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia's budget certainly allocates enough resources to obtain all textbooks for all children attending school in the Republic of Serbia. The reason for that is simple. Our Constitution stipulates that basic school education is mandatory and free of charge and that is quite logical, because if something is mandatory, then parents cannot have hidden costs to meet their obligation. If the child does not attend school, he regrets the provision of the Constitution that says that education is mandatory and carries certain consequences, but if schooling is mandatory, absolutely all the costs of that education must be covered by the state budget which expects parents to necessarily send children to school. The textbooks represent one of the higher costs associated with our children's education, which fall on the burden of parental pockets, but are not alone. There are various other hidden costs: excursions, then feeding these children, because if you send a child to school, he must also have lunch, accessories costs, notebooks, pens, supplies for physical, technical, art. Anyone who has a child in primary school knows that this primary school education is not free and that a large amount of costs falls on the parent's burden. We believe that all children who must go to school must have paid all the costs of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's the only responsibility that the state can do, and I'm not telling you in this situation where all citizens are poor, in which the middle class is almost gone and everyone is on the verge of survival, barely making ends meet, textbooks between 15 and 17,000 dinars per child every September from a family pocket. We complain that as a nation, we disappear. We're coming up with some kind of population policy that needs to be resolved, and we're missing out on seeing that the best population policy is that the state assumes on itself the obligation it normally has under the Constitution, but in practice it doesn't implement, which is to provide parents who want to have more children, that these children can be fully trained on the cost of the state, as the Constitution does. That's what you're going to do, that's how we as a state, all of us, do something at a system level, not as an ad hoc solution, for the next three years we're going to do this, or for the next five years we're going to do it, but in the law, we're going to prescribe that it has to be. Since we discussed this last autumn, when we had a second set of educational laws, and then there was the Minister of Education Sarcevic, who is always in the mood to conduct a constructive discussion when he was present in this parliament, some of the views were made that there was no money in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't agree with that conclusion for decades. He's got money. The money from the Republic of Serbia's budget is being poured out into much, much, much more irrelevant things, even, to some extent, into some very invisible flows, and then it is said that there is no money for free textbooks. That's just not true. I am asking the legislator, who is not here, but may be looking at a transfer somewhere, or I am asking Minister Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, who has not had much to do with the educational portfolio, but who has taken it upon himself to be authorised here to be the legislator of the law in the absence of Minister of Education Sarcevic, to reconsider this amendment. This amendment on free textbooks is a fundamental amendment to the future of education for children in the Republic of Serbia, and then has a collateral well-being in many other areas. So this population policy, which we don't argue about, is going to encourage us to die more than we are born and to have to do something about it, means we urge that we reconsider accepting this amendment. When this amendment is accepted, then these funds will also be found in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically they will be redistributed from some other far less important things to what is essential to any parent or person who has yet to become a parent and who cares whether he can financially withstand the costs of raising, supporting and educating the first child and later the other children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32162	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32163	Thank you. First of all, of course, with the reservation that you are right not to come from the Educational Hall, although as far as Article 10 is concerned, I would have to conclude that, compared to the previous legislative provision here, an advanced formulation of that provision has been made, which says that the government is making a decision, not that it can. So you're just wrong when you say you're leaving that dilemma alone whether or not it will bring. Of course, when you carry out fiscal consolidation, when you take care of everything that is related to public finances, take care of how much financial resources are and how much financial resources it takes to achieve an idea like this that you've promoted. It can be legitimate, it can be subdued by populism, it's already a matter of those who listen, and it's citizens and citizens who listen to this transmission. But it is certainly important to note that the provision itself has practically defined the government of the Republic of Serbia's obligation to make a decision and, of course, that the decision on free textbooks applies particularly to those most vulnerable groups. So, in particular, it's quite realistic and natural to me, regardless of what everyone would probably like to have a schooling on a single country's budget. As for, as you said, I would say, perhaps recklessly or pessimisticly some population policy or a policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia leads for the first time in a serious way, I think it is important that we make this one progression or difference in accordance with what is older - chicken or egg. I think it's much more important that by this very law and the most intelligent measures we have allowed these children to be born first. I guess that's essentially the most important thing, and then, after that, defined this law as the possibility to enable, in accordance with financial opportunities and potential, free textbooks to those who need them most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32164	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32165	Thank you. This story from the government of the Republic of Serbia that there is no money and now it has just been repeated by Minister Ruzic simply does not stand. To obtain textbooks for all children in all primary and secondary schools in Serbia, it is about 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So one quarter of one percent. So this story just doesn't stand. We have individual subsidies that are given which are much bigger than the money needed to obtain textbooks. Now let's talk a little bit about it and where in the world there are free textbooks for all the kids, since we've heard some interpretations, like – it's just for socialism and stories like that. Well, a large number of our people in the diaspora, a large number of our young people who escaped from Serbia because here they can't afford to give themselves and their family a decent life, who fled the country schooling their children abroad, so they know very well what I'm about to say. For example, in the United States, which is the most capitalist country on earth, all children get free textbooks. That's what your dear parents in Serbia look like. You take your child to school, at the beginning of the school year, the child goes there and gets all the textbooks, and not just textbooks, he gets notebooks, pens, and all the supplies that the child needs. Now, if we weren't to talk about the United States, same way you do in Canada, it's the same way in Russia, in EU countries, also in Botswana. Talking about how this can't be paid, it's just not true. If we are truly as a state of interest, and the government is full of mouths about it and we would support it in this effort, talking about how low our birth rate is, how we have high mortality, how we lose an annual spot the size of 30,000 in Serbia, through what we have in Serbia, through the bad life that people have, we forget that many of our people are actually getting out of the country and our children are born somewhere abroad, in the diaspora. So, the best policy that will help parenting is that the cost of raising a child takes over the state and, as I explained, the state has enough resources to take on such costs and this is a serious family policy that deals with children. The average salary in Serbia is around 58,59 000 dinars for the family, not individual salaries, but family incomes, and according to a survey by the Republic Statistics Institute. So, it's about 58, 59 thousand dinars. The family is three members, on average, now slightly less than that, and for that money you have to feed the whole family, and the sets of textbooks, which parents know very well, cost somewhere from 10, 12, 17 thousand dinars, and then, as my colleague Branka Stamenkovic said, you have extra costs that parents have to pay during the year. This is for a large number of families in Serbia insurmountable enigma, how to decide to pay for this. So the state of Serbia has enough money in the budget. It's about one quarter of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's about a hundred times less than how much we spend, say, on various subsidies and all kinds of wonders that we have in our budget, and of which we have no use. This is one policy that exists in the whole orderly world, so that, I think, it would be okay for the government to finally understand that this is a place where it should lead a population policy, that it should say education is a child's right, not a parent's burden, so that it will provide free kindergartens and free textbooks for all children in primary schools and for all children in high schools and to bring our young people who grow up in Serbia to the same level as our youngsters in Serbia who fled from Serbia, so they were born in the white world. There, these countries provide free textbooks. So, let's cut to the chase. We're fed up with empty stories. Here's an opportunity and something I think is undeniable. Obviously it's possible to pay. This would be, say, a good example of doing something together with the government and the ruling majority that is in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32166	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32167	I am pleading again by amendment, Mr. Chairman. So, I call not to adopt, because on the one hand I consider a good explanation of the opinions we have received from the government. On the other hand, I find an under-quality explanation of what we have received in writing by the promoter and what we have heard. First of all, because there's absolutely no value anywhere, and I honestly doubt that it's completely wrong for the intended cost, secondly, if it were, it would probably be necessary to get some structure, see what goes into that calculation. Since we heard that it referred to some argument from the debate we had in this room in the fall, it was only not an adequate reason, because that argument at one time and by structure and by content was, then we showed it, absolutely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32168	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32169	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very much like to support a former colleague who has advocated free textbooks. I'd love to, but we have to be responsible people, we have to spend as much money as we make, not how much we rob. If the bankruptcy managers in the joint criminal enterprise along with the former regime's party had stolen less, had not fired 400,000 people, of which 300,000 of them from production, 100 thousand from services, meant 400,000 of the most productive, and had not increased the public sector to 781,000 people, I would very much support such an effort. To broadcast rights without money that must be earned, we can't live off the fog, we can't live off bankruptcy, we need someone to pay off, and this government has to be financially responsible. When we hire people who have fired these empty people full of themselves, then the textbooks will be free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32170	The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32171	Thank you. No attempts at demeaning, no insult will distract us from what we're talking about today. It is very simple to pay for free textbooks for all children in primary and secondary schools in Serbia, for all children, is about a quarter of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Let me tell you the subsidies are being dropped a billion euros a year. Hundreds of million euros go to subsidies from various foreign investors receiving 10 and more thousand euros per job, where workers then pay 200 euros. It's the economic policy we have in Serbia today. There's money for that, and there's no money for free textbooks. I'll do it again. Our youngsters who have fled the country with their parents, because in Serbia their parents cannot afford a normal life, which lives scattered around the world, in all these countries they have free textbooks, because it is a child's right. That's how these lands are built. Serbia needs to do the same thing. It doesn't cost much. They repeat once again -- one quarter of the Republic of Serbia's budget. To lift one big subsidy that is given for nothing, practically for jobs for cheap labour, that's enough money to cover this cost. Not to speak further, there's a lot of room in the budget. When we discussed the budget, there were over 300m euros in activated guarantees for incompetent directors of public enterprises who are party employees and a series of other such posts in the budget. Let's be responsible, it's very important that we focus the money where we all need it. Education is a child's right and should be supported by this law. In the fall we talked about this under the Law on Fundamentals of Education and Other Laws, giving all the accounts, talking to the Minister. That's when the minister said... Unfortunately, he's not here today when we finally talk about something that really has something to do with the law, unlike these 300 amendments submitted by the ruling majority, where none of them had anything to do with the law they submitted him to. So the minister isn't here. Then he said that when we proposed free textbooks, we would solve this other law, and now we see that this is not true, but that only leaves the possibility that the Government would give some selective groups that money. To talk about helping only to God's socially endangered, to tell you, with the average income of a family in Serbia, which is somewhere between 58 and 59 thousand dinars per month, the vast majority of families are socially endangered and at the edge of existence, if they have one, another child, third child, they simply cannot pay this cost. That is why this should take the burden of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that we have the same situation that is available in the EU, both in the US, Russia, and in Botswana, and in many other countries in the world. So there's no way to get away from this topic. He's got money. You obviously have the wrong priority. Please reconsider this amendment. We are sure he has huge support for all parents in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32172	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32173	I'm going to have to, ladies and gentlemen, stay on my proposal from a moment on, and that's not to be adopted for the reasons I've already presented. We, in further explanations here, have not received the answers we have pointed to, most kindly, that they are necessary, if anyone wants our support. We haven't heard now what the structure is, anyway, and how much it's in absolute terms. Are those some millions? Are those some billions? Of what? What currency? We have no idea what structure the promoter has in mind, and yet we're going back to that debate of autumn, if he has the same structure in mind as then, that, we showed, was completely wrong. Because according to this, then shown structure, it turns out that personal computers for all children of Serbia, not to say the world, are completely free. So it was all just not serious. I sincerely hope that, if not today, some next time, it will be more serious. There is no need for us to return to the point that those who supported subsidies today seem to no longer understand what they supported and that what was once good and useful to them is no longer and that they are not giving us any more reason why they changed their minds. But it doesn't matter. It is important that we get a concrete answer to specific questions. If anyone who suggests these things is unable to provide answers, they should not be angry that our reactions are the way they are. Although, I don't expect much. One who is unable to keep together any small group of MPs, cannot be able to hold on to these answers either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32174	According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32175	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mr., whose amendment I would support if there were no joint criminal enterprise in robbing Serbian citizens, firing workers, did not understand enough. He wasn't here in the morning. He's here, the class isn't, and I understand his concerns. He has the right to his pain for lost choices. However, this should not disturb the responsibility of this congregation. So, I'm sorry it wasn't in the morning, when I was talking about that if you want to eat delicious bread, you have to sow wheat first, if you want to eat a delicious fruit, you have to plant a tree first. He'd like to read right away. He'd like to reap right away. And that was the problem of the former regime and the joint criminal enterprise involving bankruptcy managers. What the former regime failed to silence, to fire, were completed by the bankruptcy directors. He who, who we voted for, because he was an incentive in production, for subsidies, in 2013 and in early 2014, forgot that he too advocated that money was made first, so that it would be shared. No one benefits from the redistribution of the deficit – neither we nor parents nor students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32176	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32177	Thank you. Continue to run away from the darkness. When you say -- one quarter of the one percent of the Republic of Serbia's budget -- that's an exact number for you, so that every colleague can check it out. The explanation is also given with the number of pupils in primary schools and with the number of pupils in secondary schools and with average student prices, which is one quarter one percent. As far as the subsidy is concerned, I've always been against subsidies. In this assembly, my draft budget law, which abolished all subsidies, voted the Assembly in 2013 and you can check it on the Assembly website. You go, read, you have this draft budget bill and the part that applies to the Ministry of Economy. All subsidies were abolished because they were found to be extremely harmful and did not contribute to any economic growth. Let me do it one more time. The story of free textbooks, all of our children who, unfortunately, fled the country because of poverty and living scattered around the world, have these free textbooks in all the orderly countries of the world – in America, Canada, the European Union, Russia, and even Botswana. There's enough money in the budget, a quarter of one percent. Whoever doesn't know how much of the Republic of Serbia's budget can look at the law, divide and get a clear number. So the calculation is simple, the multiplication and division are applied. There's plenty of money. Obviously, there is no desire for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is inexplicable to help our children, to help them, because it is far the best way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32178	According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how much you see - "Blic", 12. 09. In 2013, the minister at the time, I would say against the economy but he was the economy minister: "We are not abolishing subsidies to investors. It is certain that in 2014 we will not go to the suspension of subsidies for investors that create new jobs." He finds out about "Blic" his smallness. (President: Bring the end. So much for the truth. He's got one opinion when he's got a chair, and he's got a completely different opinion when he's out of a chair. Now that he's lost both the party and the citizens' association, we can expect a third opinion. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic: I have a time of authority. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32180	Yes, you have a time of authority. By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32181	I think I understand what the problem is, and I have to admit, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are even deeper and more drastic than I thought. The problem is not only that someone does not remember their own views and opinions on the subsidies and these statements now reminded by Mr Risticevic, the problem is that someone does not remember the content of the budget that he has made and which is voted on. It's already things I wouldn't spend any more time on, there's a way for people to remember. The way things are going, it's not gonna be at this session, it's gonna be next time. Until then, it wouldn't be bad, when someone here shows up with a particular proposal, if he knew what he's talking about, so when we ask him to say how much he's worth, he can give an answer, not answer, well, that can be calculated. We want to see the results of his accounts. Obviously, there's absolutely no answer here, they don't know a single one. I can only conclude that there was one right thing in this whole debate by the amendment promoter. The moment the first presentation exposed that there was no need for empty stories here, he was absolutely right, whoever said it, and it could absolutely be applied to everything we heard, or what we didn't hear in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32182	Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32183	Thank you. As for this article in "Blica", which it mentions, it was five days after I became a minister, where it is practically said that the current subsidies granted will not be abolished because this would be unserious for the state. After that, after I became a minister, when we entered into the essence of subsidies and planned for 2014, we determined how useless they are and how much they are about throwing money and actually taking a party racket – they are otherwise Dinkic's invention in Serbia, according to the job 10 000 euros – and then they were all abolished. So, the Budget Law that I think passed in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, was November or December of the month, I proposed that budget for the Ministry of Economy, there is not a single subsidy. Everything else is an attempt to deceive citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It would be irresponsible if you came to the Ministry to end everything that was before you, you had to keep the contracts signed, and then we checked, watched them be applied, if you really hired that number of people, and if the citizens remember, then they said that 50, 60 thousand people were employed, and eventually we found that less than eight thousand were employed, and then huge money was spent on these subsidies that Dinkic actually introduced into Serbia. So this here is an attempt to escape from the essence that we're talking about today, and the essence is very simple. There's enough money in the budget for textbooks, for free textbooks for all children in primary and secondary schools. One quarter of the Republic of Serbia's budget is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32184	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have now heard that the man has returned. He was a little bit gone, so he managed to come back and admit that a statement that he would not lift the subsidies had been brought in five days after he became a minister. So he confirmed what I said, that he had one opinion when he had a chair, and he had another opinion when he had no chair. There may be money for free textbooks if we introduced them immediately, but that he consistently fought against the party-parasitic system, as he himself said - the fight against the parasitic party system, party system, etc. How did he fight? So when he became a minister for five days, he was for incentives, so when he stopped being a minister he forgot, but while he was a minister he spent money not on free textbooks, but on professors. For example, Professor Dusan Pavlovic had one hundred thousand like this, to be some advisor or something in the ministry, all of it and mine, I know that people make a party so they go into government, but to get into government, become a minister, so the real one in the party ministry, I didn't quite understand it. It's a parasitic party system. Like, put in Stevanović. The godfather who's now left him something, missing money, missing friend. So he hired the same guy on a fat salary. Is anyone remembering Miroslava Milenovic, the unsuspecting candidate for president, and he put her in such a parasitic position, he doesn't care about free textbooks, he doesn't care about making money, he was the minister of detention, but he watched as he watched money spend on his party friends if it's even a party, I call it rasulovic's witnesses. Then you have Ninic's famous lawyer who's also been to the state's manger... (President: Bring the end of Rističević. )......................................................................................................... That's how our former minister against the economy stood up against the party, the parasitic system for the benefit of the poor and the troubled textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32186	Slowly, fellow Radulovic, you will be entitled to a replica. He now has the right to the replica of MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32187	With the ambition to be the shortest today, two constructive proposals on my part. Those who made a bill for that debate last fall, to find it and to forward it to their representatives in resignation through a "woc app" application to look at it well. The second thing, to find them the text, the content of the budgets that were preparing for their time, to look there on that page that refers to the Ministry of Economy, how many subsidies in absolute numbers that we obviously don't know can be the same over the "woc app" app, I think that some things work just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32188	Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32189	Thank you. I think that the citizens of Serbia should pay little attention to this discussion, because whenever we start talking about the essence, let's say in this case about free textbooks, which are in the interest of all parents and all children in Serbia, from that to insult, to planting, to fiction, to things that simply aren't true. All this is for the discussion to be taken from the right topic and the only topic, which is why we don't have a proposal for free textbooks in the budget by the government itself. So the calculations are simple, they're done, they're tolerated, they're known exactly and what the cost is, it's not some heavy math, it needs multiplication and division. These textbooks cost about a quarter of the Republic of Serbia's budget for all children in primary and secondary schools. No offense, no screaming, no planting, it won't help to get away from this subject, we're just not gonna let that happen. I'm not going back to these charges that don't belong to this house, we're talking about an amendment to the law. We're talking about the amendment, I'm not the subject, it's not enough topic, the topic is free textbooks. Parents need to know that this Assembly has the possibility, it has the authority, it has the power to pass one such law, that all children get free textbooks in Serbia and that they know that there is enough money in the budget for this, because the amount that is allocated to subsidies to foreign investors over 10 times exceeds the money needed for free textbooks. So, money is, it's just a matter of political will that obviously doesn't exist. In the fall we tried this, it didn't work out, we're trying again. This law can be passed, it's possible to have free textbooks. Why the government doesn't want it, we really don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32190	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32191	As this debate moves away, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to keep the replicas shorter and shorter and shorter and to make it as constructive as possible, but some don't seem to give. I have another completely new constructive proposal to make one small shift in terms of support in the form of free textbooks. Since some obviously don't know what lines size they're dealing with, they don't know what it costs, here, it doesn't matter. All that is available in some, let it be used, give a good bright example, by providing free computers and free tablets and textbooks, etc. For example, out of the 37 million, it seems to me, if I'm not mistaken in the value of campaign money that has been allocated to their deputies to their firms, that they return these money to one pile and spend it on free textbooks, laptops, pills, whatever they want, and then you let us know how many kids they've managed to make happy and how much it cost together. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32192	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Radulovich. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32193	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we farmers are in vain trying to tell the former economy minister, I'm going to tell the minister against the economy, explain that money is made first, and then it can be spent. He'd like one hole to shut the other. He wants to broadcast rights, and he doesn't know who's gonna pay for it. He's fighting the parasite system, and not a single fact I've brought down. Did he bring his party friends into the state register and pay them fat, while he was the minister against the economy. So he did it and he did it. Is the money he received from the state wrongly, for the simple reason that there is no political party, which the Association of Citizens does not have to be under the control of the Anti-Corruption Agency and that money can spend whatever it wants. If he hadn't abused that money and not paid it, what Mr. Orlic said to his MPs on the accounts of private companies, for so-called. click. Look, the minister against the economy was paying money, he was handing out money from the state register, it's money from the state register, if it's not spent, he's coming back to the state register. In order not to return it to the state register, to buy free textbooks and exercise books, notebooks and accessories, he transferred the money to private companies, his MPs for so-called. click. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32194	You have no right to the replica of your colleague Radulovic. (Sasa Radulovic: Then by amendment.) After the amendment, another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32195	Thank you. It's really amazing that I don't have the right to replica after all these insults. I'm not gonna pay attention to this. Serbian citizens just need to know, when we talk about serious issues, when we talk about all children in Serbia getting free textbooks, the only answer we get from the ruling majority is insults, plantings, things that are completely made up, structures, and this is the manner we have in this National Assembly. We won't buy it. I'm talking about very important things, citizens need to know that there's money for free textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32196	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32197	Just so we don't stay out of sight. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't by any chance think someone who broadcasts sees that some of the lies are being pronounced here and some of the insults are being made public. People who are just leaving the O.R., let them check out who told them, so that's their words, not mine, that he took on the name of his company's deposit in the way we're talking about right now. From the campaign money on behalf of the firm. Who said he had a right to do that, because that's how he got his fee. Please don't, we're serious people. It's all online. It can be read. Some of these things were giggling and boasting. Among other things, and those results, like a phenomenally adjusted budget they don't seem to remember anymore. So if there's anything we want to do, let's be serious. And if we came here to talk about something, and we don't know what it's worth, how much money and what it's even about, it's all just not serious. It's all just not, as it was, a line of censors or better than 1.41. Thank you very much. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32198	You have no right to the replica of your colleagues. Based on what? (Saša Radulovic: Insulting. How did he insult you? He didn't mention you at all. He didn't mention you at any time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying in the people, "He's always had a little time." There go the bankruptcy witnesses. So that in 14 bankruptcys, and imagine now, Mr. Chairman, that you are chairing at the same time at 14 parliaments. Is that possible? Mr. Minister, could you now be a minister in 14 other congregations? Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Chairman, ask Mr. Martinovic, could he be head of the parliamentary group at the same time in 14 parliamentary groups in 14 parliaments? That's impossible, but how is it possible for a bankruptcy manager to get in charge and be a bankruptcy manager, means director, to take care of the company's assets at the same time in 14 companies? And it's such a big company, so it's not some company's purse, it's a bow, it's where there's been a fat bankruptcy. Instead of making sure that the assets were calmed down, that the company would recover, he only made sure that he, his narrow relatives and friends, his bookkeeping. He made a deal with himself to pay his own accounting services out of bankruptcy, although he had 14 incomes, because he was a 14-time bankruptcy manager at the same time in 14 companies. If it hadn't been for that, the textbooks would have been free for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32200	Thank you. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vesovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, and we have submitted an amendment to Article 10, which talks about funding textbooks with the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think everyone in this building knows that I'm not the one who gives myself exclusive rights that I care about something more than those who are members of the position, and I don't think that I like elementary school students more than those who are in power. But there's one difference here. The difference is that those who are in power can bring in most of what we suggest, and sometimes it seems to me that the only brake is that the proposal comes from this side. The proposal, proposed by the government, says that according to the resources available, it will allow the funding of textbooks, and only some categories, is considered materially and socially endangered or those who have some degree of disability or some disturbance in development. In the amendment that we have written, we propose that the Government, not in line with the possibilities, we say that the Government, with funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order to ensure equal availability of education and education, finance the preparation, commitment and allocation of textbooks for all students. Why for everything? He said a short time ago, Mr. Secretary, that when someone listens to this guy's exposure, they can sense a certain amount of pulsism in it. There's no here, Mr. Minister, for populism. If there is populism, I ask the authorities to implement this into action and let all the political points and all the popularity that will thus gain and gain take over. We have proposed in the second position in this amendment that what the Government proposes for primary education be for secondary education. Why? Because by listening to the debate, I again express my grief that there is no Minister, his presentation within the entire series of laws, which went ahead of the Ministry of Education, heard that he himself said that the work was to be done and secondary education was mandatory. If it is mandatory for basic education, let's make this state's commitment at one point when the government is doing something that we opposition representatives support, doing seriously to measures to strengthen population policy. Although, I'm going to make a move, I can't agree with your party colleague, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Dejanovic, who today threw out some information that the WHO, for God's sake, recommends giving birth to four children, because it's normal and desirable for a woman, and it's healthy, and it's not. We also have those who have more children, so we make one discrimination against mothers and parents who have five or more children. My fellow MPs from the government know that when I come from this pay phone, I always say that I am a national MP, because I make examples out of the lives of the people. My friend George, a neighbor in the King, has six children, four are in primary school, and two are in high school. Now, imagine, when it is already at the beginning of discrimination, because these children are already large and imagine some 1st September when the four go to high school, two from the fifth to the eighth grade, where the eighth grade textbook set is about 18,000 dinars, from fifth to eighth at a similar price, and from the first to the fourth to 10,000 dinars are textbooks. Imagine what a blow to the budget it is. In September, we have winters and, we'll admit, the wish of all of us that those kids went on vacation somewhere, so the budget that's been spent pretty badly. We don't have any clearly expressed social cases here, but every family of decades is the family that needs to be helped, and anyone who has fewer children is the family where this kind of measure would be given to parents, to paint myself, the wind in the back to work on what should be the priority of this country. Here, I will publicly say that, I have no problem, there is power and the ruling coalition in measures of population policy support and of the Serbian Dvora Movement, thank God, you remembered after time, we waited maybe to gain opportunities. That is why, in this proposal, in this amendment, we have proposed that this "necessary means" set out in Item 1 and Article 2 to be planned by the Budget Law for each coming year, starting from school 2019/20. A year. We didn't want to do anything now, but as serious and responsible people, whose population policy comes first, let's think about when we form a budget, we find budget lines where we're going to be able to make these funds possible and do something that's good for the whole country. So, no, believe me, I'm sure, on the side of the Serbian Dvora movement, there's no desire here for a population story. Here's something we should do to make everyone feel better. That way we'll make it possible for our young children to be better educated, and then I'll talk again about some things that we should fix. Unfortunately, I think only some brakes because this idea, for God's sake, came first from someone in the opposition standing. We should think about this so we all get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32202	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32203	It is not a matter of merit mentioned earlier, ladies and gentlemen, but of precisely the seriousness and responsibilities mentioned above. Until we hear what the absolute amount of estimated cost is and what the precise structure of that cost really doesn't make sense to talk any further, it's impossible to talk any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32204	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members of the 12th and Article 12th Amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, together submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branka Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members and of the 26th Amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members together submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the Parliament of the Dvori together submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 27 speaks of a conflict of interest, and we, by amendment to the draft law, added Article 3 of the Law, which reads – a responsible person in the Office who forms an expert opinion committee in the Staff Order cannot be engaged or engaged in a business relationship, nor have a direct or indirect benefit, i.e. a convenience with the issuer or the responsibility of the person of the issuer. We got an answer from the government that our amendment was denied. I will say that our amendment has been rejected is completely wrong for the simple reason a member is talking about a conflict of interest, and we are at this point in a great conflict of interest at the Department of Books. Do you know that the current director of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education of the Republic of Serbia is a co-author of reading from the fifth to eighth grade Serbian language, as well as a handbook for the drama section of a private publisher with foreign capital "Klett"? Am I supposed to say the name of the Belgrade elementary school director who co-authors the aforementioned readers? As you wish to explain to me that the 27th member of this conflict of interest law, when I present such information to you, and the Government does not find it appropriate to accept this reasoning as such and, in one sentence, to warn and prevent, in one additional position, the situation that already exists, or that this situation does not happen. I don't want to talk about how "Clett" and "Logos" appeared as publishers and said that the owners of these publishing houses are married couples from abroad. I don't want to talk about how they clouded things so they registered in Belgrade and did textbooks on the German system. I don't want to talk about it because of such activities, and I've watched the activity on the ground in my city of King, how educational workers who work in primary schools shared pills to promote their textbooks. I'm not saying that such an activity has led to, for example. "Creative Centre", a domestic publisher with wonderful textbooks or "Scientific Book" or books that we have published, that these publishing houses are shut down and now we are talking here about a conflict of interest, and we have that a man who co-authors, for that is a direct person who is responsible for who will be the publisher of textbooks. I really can't understand that half the arguments given in five, six rows, is it possible that at the Ministry of Education, this is the point that I regret most that Mr. Sarcevic is not here, I can't ask you because you can't even give me the answer you're doing in the ministry, because you don't know or you didn't want to read this, or think that this is a general interest in eliminating the possibility, I'm not going to go in whether a man is conscious or unconscious in conflict of interest, that you're so easily refuting it. Unfortunately, we will be left without an answer, and unfortunately we will have a situation which in one very serious law, and it is no accident that the Serbian Movement of the Dvora has left all the time available to talk about this law, because this is one question that is serious, which is needed, a good law that makes some steps, which goes forward. We can't, unfortunately, get an answer and get into a situation that we can simply think that what is written above article 27, and it says conflict of interest, I circled it, it stands as a dead letter on paper, because I gave you direct proof that in this case there is a conflict of interest. The only thing I didn't want from something that I consider an education is to mention the name of a person in a direct conflict of interest. If that never happened to us, one sentenceary addition of any attitude, we can correct it, but unfortunately we don't want to, and that doesn't match what the ruling coalition's declared policy and which I think they are really in many segments showing a desire to work in that direction. I was hoping that Mr. Minister Sarcevic would be here and that with the power he has, he would press the button and say – the amendment is accepted. I'd like Mr. Ruzic to do it or explain to me why what we suggested is illogical? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32206	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32207	He answered the Minister of Education's remarks, though, I can't swear if a colleague who's asked the question now or someone else, but he answered, he did. It's a shame it hasn't been heard or forgotten, it hasn't been that long ago. In response, the government stands well - a person who forms a commission is not a person who gives an opinion. The important thing is that there is no conflict of interest in the one on whom the decision depends. It depends on the one who gives an opinion. And Article 27 provides that there should be no conflict of interest. This is a very clear thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32208	Thank you. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment with the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 35th Amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vesovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, you've said well, the amendment with the correction. Our desire here was to avoid one of the illogicalities created in Article 38, the word “ministership” to replace the word “institutory. ” Article 38 prescribes that issuers will deliver in 2% of net revenues to the ministry as a guarantee of payment funds. We think it's logical to deliver it to the Bureau, because what happens if some low-end textbooks that aren't sold, how is that damage going to make up for it? Why is the money going from the Ministry to the Bureau instead of going directly to the Bureau? One purely technical question. The explanation was given in four, five sentences. We thought it was logical. Unfortunately, it is obvious that it is not logical, or it is in some way a desire to keep all this potential flow of money from these funds that should be paid and sent to the competent ministry. I don't know if I'm gonna get an explanation of why that is. That doesn't make any sense to us in the Serbian Dvora movement. It's a similar situation with another member, where it's the same technical correction. He'll be here for a few members of this bill. It's just that we studied the law very carefully. But, unfortunately, there's no hearing from the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32210	The word is made by Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32211	First of all, there's an intensity here, and it's just true that money goes directly to the Bureau, and the ministry goes to the department as a means of security. That, I think, is what my colleague Sarcevic explained on several occasions and in the debate on the principle of what intensity is, what are motives and what is the point of the guarantee means heading towards the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32212	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 40 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the KSP group together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vesovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32213	Thank you. I don't want to get into the controversy, but the explanation I got from Mr. Minister Ruzic is completely illogical to me. The funds go to the Bureau. Well, why are the guarantees going to the ministry, why not the guarantees to the Bureau? It's completely illogical. I wasn't one day, really, I was prevented from private obligations, so I didn't hear the explanation of Mr. Minister of Education, if he gave it. I wanted to hear him now, but the explanation is that he explained it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32214	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Educational Inspection. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the KSP parliamentary group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the KSP group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 2nd Amendment, added the name above the new member and the new member of 2a, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the KSP group together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic together submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic submitted together to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the KSP parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic submitted to the title above members and Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the KSP parliamentary group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komić, Goran Ćirić, Natasa Vučković, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ješić, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the KSP parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the KSP parliamentary group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda item four. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the KSP parliamentary group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments of the Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the KSP group together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanović and Vjerica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazić proposed amendments to the article with one amendment. 4, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 33, 34, 37, 39, 42, 47 and 53. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the KSP parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the KSP parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the KSP group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 10th Amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the KSP group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Ruzica Nikolic jointly submitted to the 10th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the KSP group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Đorđe Vukadinović and together Goran Ćiric, Goran Ješić, Balša Božović, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Veroljub Stevanović, Dejan Nikolic and Gordana Komic together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the People's Parliament, Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic, submitted together to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dijana Vukomanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the KSP parliamentary group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dijana Vukomanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment were submitted jointly by the People's MPs Verica Radeta and Petar Jojic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanom, Vesna Marjanović, Veroljub Stevanović, Dejan Nikolic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, together submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Daniela Stojadinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dijan Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament of the Parliaments of the Group of Independent Members submitted together to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Neđo Jovanovic and Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members together submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members submitted together to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted the amendment to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraj submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment, with a correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Neđo Jovanovic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment with the correction. Minister Ruzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32215	Amendment with correction accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32216	Having accepted the amendment with the correction, I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the Parliament of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted to the 40th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraj submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraj submitted together to the 42nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted the amendment to Article 43. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraj submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted the amendment to Article 45. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraj submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted the amendment to Article 47. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members submitted together to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 48th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandr Cabraj submitted to the 49th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Seselj and the Belief of Radet together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted to the 50th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraj submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marjana Maras, Miletic Mihajlovic and Daniela Stojadinovic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by Natas Jovanovic and Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted the amendment to Article 53. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 53rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fifth point – Proposal for a Law on NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE OF GEOPROSTORAL DATA You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic put together the title above the members and Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Seselj, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members together submitted the amendment to Article 3. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment, with an amendment. Minister Ruzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32217	Amendment with correction accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-04-0.u32218	Having accepted the amendment with the correction, I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Verica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic jointly submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Milorad Mirčić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above the members and members of the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament of the Parliament group of Independent Members together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Ruzica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above members and Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic together submitted to the title above the members and Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above members and Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic together submitted the title above the members and Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 20th Amendment together submitted to the title above the members, together with the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Zoran Zivkovic and Jovan Jovanovic together submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Vjerica Radeta together submitted to the title above members and Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Momcilo Mandić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above members and Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic together submitted the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric together submitted to the title above the members and Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Zoran Zivkovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic together submitted to the title above the members and members of the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
