ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50957	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly this year. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that we have 67 MPs who have applied. To determine the number of persons present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have conditions for continuing work, i.e. a search in particular at point 1. At the moment, we have Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Sinisa Mali and Branko Ruzic with us. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50958	Here we are discussing 62 draft agenda points, and obviously we will not be able to discuss in particular the main law as part of the agenda, it is the Budget Act. In this law that we are discussing in particular, thanks only to the order in which we can discuss it in particular, and otherwise as regards the amendments submitted by the SRS, they are designed to delete from all laws, including this law what is unnecessary. The second article is about the terminology or terms that are in this law, and we think it's too high, that it should, essentially, be a good law because it's about pooling data, because it's about the database and it's an observation of our Serbian radicals. What is a fundamental observation is that this way of working and this kind of practice that has been introduced into parliament, we are actually running away from the essence of this Parliament's existence, which is to discuss very, very important points. I say again, we Serbian radicals, we attach importance to all laws, but there is one law, which says the law of all laws, it's the Bill of Budgets. What the public needs to know, to repeat itself several times, is that thanks to these pointless amendments that the ruling coalition is investing, we are in a situation where we are in some way denied the possibility of discussing all the laws, and especially the Budget Law. No more hiding, no more mystics, obviously this is the tactics of the ruling coalition, or government. I don't know how much that's gonna pay off for you. You have real examples here in these that are now in some alliances. You only remember when Gordana Comic chaired, she's black that niggers can't be, only maybe Natasa Micic has a nigger of her. You have seen what she has done, with all the means and methods being served and not worth it, now sitting in the bench like all MPs, depends on the will and mercy of the ruling majority. It is unfortunate that the ruling majority in this meeting did not learn lessons from that period. In our opinion, Serbian radicals are one of the darkest, darkest periods in parliamentary life. However, it must never be excluded in politics the possibility of more niggers. This may be on the trail to make it worse when it comes to parliamentary debate, but gentlemen, those who brought you here see you are being warned. They remind you that you must develop, cultivate a parliamentary life, we are here Serbian radicals as an opposition political party to try to get you back on track, to put you on track where the parliamentary debate is being held. We MPs in parliament can also tell each other what we like, and what we like less, but those who represent, those who lead the Assembly, they have to make sure that this Parliament works, they have to be equal, objective, equal to all MPs, and not to show here the outflow of their minds, as the gentleman does, let's say, Arsic, he's the closest to me, so I quote him as an example. He's always waiting for an opportunity to show how well he knows the Rules of Procedure and on the side of it, he needs to be chaired, but he always shows which quantity of knowledge he owns and what experience he has. Your experiences are for building operations, for some industry where you need a completely different mind and a different intellectual work, and here leave Mr. Arsic to the MPs to discuss and to do so freely. Why am I telling you, not only did you steal the mandate of the SRS, so you are close to us, but you are the victim of the person I was talking about at first, their undemocratic behaviour in parliament after October 5th. You, Mr. Arsic, and I expected the most from you that on the basis of this poor experience, on the basis of your personal experiences, you will still be objective, and that applies to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50959	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word from those who have time? (No) Representatives Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50960	Thank you, Chairman. We have asked this amendment for data processed and collected for the establishment of a register to be processed and handled in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. Why it is important to point out that data management must be done in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, we can see in the case of the abuse of data from pensioners in the Republic of Serbia, which made some happy, and certainly made the letter of the president of the SNS, which, I do not know how it came to the data of all pensioners in Serbia, and certainly could not have done so in accordance with the law, and then sent them a letter thanking them for taking their pensions. Which took their pensions, to spend on dazzling projects, such as "Belgrade on Water", took their pensions so that he could now talk about building a national football stadium in Serbia, which I will remind you, when the story of him started, was supposed to cost 150m euros. Now, in this budget, we see 250m euros for that. We see that the president of Serbia, president of the SNS, who steals citizens' data, is saying he will build seven-eight stadiums. I know football is Serbia's biggest export business. If you didn't know, from football transfers, players who play around the world, originating in Serbia, over a billion euros is the value of these contracts annually. But it's not going to increase, it's just one zone where there's going to be a rule of law and crime, it's another zone where the SNS... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50961	Thank you. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted together to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50962	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, with the idea that this article should be further specified, i.e. that the definitions set out in Article 1 of this Article are better defined, i.e. to comply with the way in which they are subsequently used in the law. We have made changes in, as I said point 1 in point 1) and in point 18. Here, I'll read you these two points to figure out why we thought these interventions should be done. Paragraph 1 of point 1) reads - a single database within the meaning of this law is an electronically managed database on the bonds of contributions for compulsory social insurance to insurance and insured persons, into which the data are entered and kept in accordance with the law. We have added – and for inputs are processed and kept in accordance with the law, because, of course, these data are not entered and stored only, but are being processed and managed, as can be seen from Article 28, for example, this law, in which it says - data entered into a single database on a daily basis are electronically processed, combined, selected, updated, stored and accessible to users of the data. So these data are managed, or processed, so we think that it's not a complete enough definition to say that they're just inputs and preserves. I'll remind you that the title, or subtitle, if you will, is above Article 2 -- the meaning of certain terms. So we think that you should express yourself to be defined in Article 2, not to be further defined in the law itself. The same applies to item 18, i.e. item 18, item 1 - the information system is a set of information and telecommunications systems used in the process of making, sending, receiving, checking and keeping electronic documents. We added - and updates. Because once again these electronic documents are being manipulated in some way, let me say, of course, by the signs of the quote, not in the persuasive meaning of that word, or managed in some way, and therefore they are being updated, and we think that this should be changed. I ask the Minister, once again, to consider accepting this amendment, because we believe it is important to define in the act's point of reference, or in a member of the law, in which the meaning of the term for this law is defined, that it is important that these meanings be fully defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50963	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the 62 laws we're discussing, and that, I must admit, was an ideal opportunity to insert another. By introducing this Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, you are given the opportunity to monitor in a much better way the personal receipts of each Act establishing the origin of the property. I'll remind you, it's a law you've announced thunderingly since 2012. It would be good if the minister and the chairman would listen to what I'm saying and so the minister could respond. It's not polite not to be in your seat and talk to the chairman, Mr. Minister. Here, I'm asking the cameras at least to show what's going on there and it's absurd that I'm talking about the law if no one listens. I ask you, Mrs. Gojkovic, to return the time this minute has passed, because there were no conditions for exposure. So, question for the minister, why is there no law establishing the origin of the property? You promised him in the 2012 campaign, you promised him more than once after that. It is a law that is necessary for you to be accounted for, of course, legally and in accordance with the law and the Constitution, with representatives of the former regimes you daily call thieves. But don't do anything other than verbally to bring them to justice, to determine who stole, how much he stole, to get them back to the citizens of Serbia, because that's actually what the point is. Looking at you and looking at what you're doing, you'd think it's actually your intensity to never pass the Law on the origin of property, you'd admit that, the basic assumption logically, that you're not afraid it would bring a lot of problems in your ranks, you would do it. Well, who wouldn't want to expose political opponents and say for sure -- here, he stole so much, he didn't have any reported income, he acquired property he couldn't prove his origins for, and that, in that way, I would say, he'd also expose himself as a thief, but he was politically eliminated from this game. There are too many charges on the political scene in Serbia, too many of them negative, but unfortunately things are never resolved in accordance with the law. We need these numerous affairs that you're talking about and that you're accusing each other of, to finally get an epilogue like that. To know whether someone is right or wrong, because the way you run parliament, what you're turning parliament into, the way you're essentially, deliberately, deliberately avoiding the debate on important issues is something that we're completely clear about. All of your conflicts in the last two days, call the opposition and call the authorities, have been cut out. What you're doing with the yellows and their satellites is actually just a way of not talking about serious topics, avoiding them. We have a serious crisis about the KIM around which a national consensus should be reached and what should be the most important topic. What are you talking about? So come back once that we are working in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the law, and that those topics that are essential and most important for Serbian society finally come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50965	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50966	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. This law is in the final stage of preparation and as soon as it is finished will be presented to the public, we will also organise a public debate so that everyone interested can give an opinion. I expect that in the next few months. What is our goal, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to make a law that is enforceable on the one hand, which offers solutions that will give the possibility to determine the origin of the property, and on the other hand, which is fair and versatile in the way we avoid any abuses in the application of that law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50967	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Parliament member Danica Bukvic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50968	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(2), point 3. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. The proposed amendment shall specify which data are concerned. This register is based on IT technologies and therefore it was necessary to provide a legal framework for connecting with other registers in the Republic of Serbia, and in order to obtain information faster on who is and how much he has contributed to mandatory social security. This will allow for more efficient collection of contributions and functioning of social security. The law imposes an obligation for all registers to communicate with each other via eGovernment, thus enabling faster and more efficient data exchange between state authorities. This will certainly make it easier for citizens to get information. And to take advantage of the opportunity to take a few words to refer to the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, especially the part relating to health care, where an increase in health care is envisaged, which I certainly commend and welcome, as well as to the allocation of salaries in health care, both health and other health care workers and pension increases, which certainly points to the concern of social problems among these categories of population. In the day to vote, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will declare themselves or vote both for this law and for the budget and other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50969	Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50970	Dear People's MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have submitted an amendment to Article 2. 3) and 4), in which we believe it was necessary to define Article 4 more clearly because we believe that this law can also be selectively applied, primarily to our entrepreneurs, and I would like the minister to answer some of the questions and concerns that I have concerning this law. Namely, could the director of this Central Register have been elected on the basis of the competition, not to be five members of the board of directors and directors appointed by the government, which gives us the suspicion that people from the government would be put back in place? Also, we believe that this law continues to lead a socially unfair policy, especially as maximum penalties for entrepreneurs increase to a million and a half dinars, and so far the maximum penalties have been 800,000 dinars. We think this is another way to get out of our entrepreneurs as much money as possible for some of their little business gaps. Because here we see in Article 12, if a single application is not filed within three days of receiving from an employee, that people can be punished. And that is why we believe, Mr. Minister, that it might be better to consider how to solve injustices against 108 000 employees whose employers have not made contributions and who today have lost some years in their work hours and we know that employers' debt towards employees is one billion and 200,000 euros. So I would ask you to answer these questions, because we believe this law will be selectively applied and that this is another total control of our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50971	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50972	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on what you've been talking about, the Law on Public Service Employees is just changing what you've been talking about. So, the director of this facility will also be elected in a public competition, which gives you an answer to the question you asked. On the other hand, about unpaid or unpaid contributions by the employer, it's a matter of labour inspection and I'll watch that together with them and along with the competent ministry come up with a solution. The solution is simple, in each particular case, to send the labour inspection to the scene, in order to determine the true state of affairs and to make a decision on the basis of the inspection findings in which the outstanding contributions are covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50973	You still have time. You have 51 seconds. You want to talk about the amendment? There's no basis for replication, but you have 50 seconds, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50974	I do. Article 9, Mr. Minister, in which it is said - the Director of the Central Register is appointed and resolved by the Government, so it is nowhere defined to be chosen by competition, so we believe that the SNS will continue to appoint loyal directors in the Central Register, as they have so far worked.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50975	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50976	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security is purely technical law, and the technical law requires both technical precision and accountability. The proposal for this law does not make it clear what reasons for the relative delay in this law, when was its first appearance in 2010 and the repair in 2014? The promoter predicted that the security and data protection procedure would be governed by the minister. But unfortunately, it's not a precise deadline for this shop, which is not good, so there will be less wandering and mistakes if you don't do it very quickly. I have to point out here another illogicality, and it refers to the criminal policy of this law, which is reflected in the range of fines established under the Law of Infractions, and the range of 10,000 to 500,000 to 2 million, which is 30, 40 and 50 times higher, and gives great opportunity for volunteering to those who punish and judge. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security is another one in a series of those laws whose reasons for adoption are contained in the spirit of the time of this information age. Practice will test the concept of law, its principles, principles, registration and procedures, but one thing is clear. The machine has no soul and conscience, and the man has both conscience and responsibility. Whether there will be co-operation between a man and a machine and what kind of cooperation will be in the future remains to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50977	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Mirjana Dragas submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50978	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, today when we talk about the Central Register Act, I want first and foremost to highlight its importance and importance in general, with the system and the jobs it builds and which it covers. This law regulates the establishment of a body and the activity of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, relations established between the Central Register and compulsory social security organisations, bodies responsible for public revenue operations, bodies and organisations responsible for the registration of legal and natural persons and bodies keeping official records and registers on the personal status of citizens and data. I must point out that a job in the establishment of an institution like this was started in 2010, that it was released as a system in 2013 and that it has been operational until now, according to certain rules. However, the conditions with the electronic connection of various entities operating and operating in the economy set new conditions and new tasks and, in that sense, the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is perfectly normal that it had to be submitted to the National Assembly for adoption, with all its amendments and additions. However, in relation to Article 2, I have submitted an amendment where in point 5 I had the idea to propose that the entities required in this whole cycle be defined. Namely, to say that the insurance company is a natural person, or a natural person with the status of entrepreneurs or farmers, which defines clearly who entrepreneurs and farmers are in a function whose data in this system are necessarily entered and monitored which is of benefit to all citizens. I thought this definition was better and more efficient and clear for all other users, but at the same time I want to point out that the state had a clear system earlier that monitored all payments and all the funds as they function as a special system that functioned in a great way. However, after October 5th, the new authorities felt that such a register no longer had to exist, shut it down, and therefore appeared in the economy, but also in individuals and many problems of inefficiency and to the fact that the citizens were damaged by the fact that the economic operators did not pay them social insurance obligations. This collapsed system has led to great consequences. In this respect, bringing about the creation of a central register of compulsory insurance and its improvement in electronic integration is something absolutely necessary and it is managed on the foreheads of independence, efficiency and economics, creating as little cost as possible in its functioning. This system makes it easier and faster to obtain data from state authorities and organisations because data users and the central register are obliged to share data they have. The central register provides electronic connection with other registers and databases held in the Republic of Serbia, which are important to the contributors and insured persons. When it comes to this register, therefore, I believe that the absolute Assembly should be governed by the principle of its adoption, as well as by the other law, but when it comes to the very budget that is in this system of laws that is before us today and which we are discussing, I would like to point out that in the next period, therefore, I support all those measures that the Government has in the meantime adopted, believing that in the coming period with greater development of the economy and higher payments to state funds, in fact, that better functioning, allocation of funds for culture, education and health should be ensured. Of course, social measures, which will make citizens more aware of the organisation and functioning of the state, while at the same time also having better and greater social security. In this sense, I also support this law, the Budget Law, with of course objectives, which would be more prominent in this future period and thus, in fact, show a better efficiency of the state. In the voting day, of course, we will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50979	The People's MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50980	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposed amendment specifies the concept of insurance. The property of the insurance company shall be obtained on the day of start, shall cease on the day of termination of employment, the performance of independent or agricultural activity, or the performance of the contracted transactions, and shall not be able to acquire over 15 years of life except for certain jobs which, due to their specificity, children under 18 years of age. The security property shall be determined on the basis of an application for insurance and check-out from the same. The application for insurance shall determine the start of the characteristics of the insurance undertaking and the check-out of the same termination of the characteristics. Therefore, it is necessary to define the insurance in the law as an employee because it is a prerequisite for acquiring the property of the insurance company. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security is an indication that the IT sector in the Republic of Serbia is progressing at a high speed, as one of the greatest potentials of the rapid development of the Republic of Serbia's economy lies in digitisation, which in the state administration aims to provide services to citizens who will use them in a simple and fast manner. The central register will carry out mandatory social security tasks. It will be an electronically run base based on high IT standards and performances. The central register is required to ensure the continuous functioning of the information system by forming a secondary database and a secondary computer system that will be located away from where the primary information system is located. The law regulates the establishment, authorities, activity of the central register as well as its relationship with mandatory social security organisations, public income services authorities, bodies and organisations responsible for the registration of legal and natural persons, the registration of the personal status of citizens, the relationship with institutions that keep the data on payment bonds and other legal entities. Finally, two on the 2019 budget, which is that it is realistic, development and social, and we as socialists, as a socially responsible party, will support this budget projection for 2019. All praises for the increase in health leave, as well as for the increase in the salaries of healthcare workers, which will contribute to the quality of health care in the Republic of Serbia together. Finally, all praises for the wise conduct of foreign policy, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia for the results in Serbian diplomacy that speak to the fact that 11 countries are on the way, that we have information and 12 countries that have withdrawn the recognition of so-called. Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50981	Parliamentarian Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50982	Thank you, Chairman. Reading this member of Serbia's citizens might feel safe and think that the state really cares about them, but in practice something else is happening. The state only cares about them if members of the SNS or there is a mechanism to be forced, to be SNS voters, which the central register certainly is. We had an example in Secnje where, for example, the director of the Centre for Social Work was blackmailing the recipients of social assistance to eliminate them if they did not vote for SNS, and this case can certainly be found in each individual local community. Secondly, what you say in the light of this law is savings in the administration. Gentlemen, you will not achieve this until you have fired the staff of SNS who are inadequate, inefficient and admitted to public enterprises again just because they are members of the SNS, and have subsequently received even adequate calls at private universities, but it may be embarrassing to talk about this in front of Mr. Sinish Mali, about false diplomats and Ph.D.s. Furthermore, you say the tax administration will be better connected to the central register and be more efficient. I also can't believe you because we wouldn't have MPs sitting here and a long, terribly large tax figure, we wouldn't have "Zeca Company" or other farm residents, who have entered the names of companies that owe this country huge tax money. In the end, I can't help but respond to some previous exhibits where the Serbian Movement Dvori and other members of the opposition are accused of wanting riots. No, it is not true and how we care about what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50983	Thank you. You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50984	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment we submitted to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security is to seek to delete point 6 which is only one in a series of points whose erasure we are looking for, which refers to defining the terms used in this proposal. The SRS' position on defining the concept is clear. We believe that those who interpret the law know perfectly what the concept means and that even a member like this, what Article 2 is not a legal norm. The reasoning you gave about not accepting this amendment, you say, for the reason that the specificity of the material being regulated by the bill requires defining the meaning of the term and this explanation is unacceptable for us. We have repeatedly pointed out during the debate that this is one technical law to control the payment of contributions, but that all of this covered by this bill could be regulated by different sublaws. The previous law was passed in 2010 at a time when the minister of labour and social policy was Rasim Ljajic, who now supports Serbia's prime minister and vice-president who draws new borders of Serbia, some Djujo, and his MPs in the Serbian Parliament, say Serbs in Novi Pazar are national minorities. You keep your mouth shut, and our question is, how long do you think you'll be deaf to everything that we Serbian radicals point to when it comes to Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic and his involvement with the drug clan and intelligence services?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50985	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, all the draft laws that the Government has sent to the National Assembly are burdened by this interpretation of certain terms, and the application of the law applies by applying the law as a whole. It is absolutely pointless to explain what the concept might mean, especially earlier when you have explained about Article 9 that it will be applied without putting out of force this provision of Article 9 but that some other law will regulate it. Full sense is lost and legal experience with the SRS indicates that Article 2 or in some laws and Article 3 are completely pointless, and you will admit that the greatest legal experience has exactly SRS, by Aleksandr Vukic, Aleksandr Martinović and many others who have had their legal skills and affirmation and acquired in the SRS. This could also be regulated by a sublegal act, so one regulation, because this is technical. The essence of this is regulated by the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, and the Central Register Act could also be a regulation. Of course, we respect the hierarchy in Serbia's legal system, but it cannot be said for this law that it leads to Serbia's overall development, that care for the poor and unemployed in a fantastic way will resolve this law, that it will be a better standard of pensioners and unemployed absolutely not true. Regardless of all the sympathies of professors. The Mijatovic he has when the MPs of the SRS speak, I really have to ask the professor one question, so, is it possible, and beyond any sense, that Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Rasim Ljajic is supporting someone who, watch miracles, Professor Rajm Ljajic. Atlagic, he's the one who decided to name himself Juja. I'm pretty sure his son may even, or daughter, I don't know exactly who he has, and my grandson doesn't speak, change his last name and return it. But he has the right to do it, but he has no right to draw some cards, to break Serbia. Even less is the right Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic to support...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50987	Ambassador, let's get back to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50988	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50989	I don't think it has anything to do with the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Joseph Broz. Does he want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50990	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, again, the amendment that is similar to that which I have submitted to the previous member, which is some kind of language-technical correction. Well, you thought it was right, you said it could be done there. By the way, I've been listening to all sorts of different things all day yesterday, and the esteemed lady president was asking the question, how is it possible that no one was fenced from meaningless tweets? Here, President, I'm building on a pointless tweet and everything that's out of line for me as a member of the SPD I'll never support. I did so on the statement of my colleague Srdjan Nog, however, you know, it is not correct if someone is fenced on this side, and on the side of the government no one responds to a statement from fellow MPs that the MPs of the opposition eat the dark. We've heard we're oligofrene, now we need to be eaten by the dark. Here, I'm asking Mr. Minister if he's being embellished by his party colleague's statement that we're Albanian opposition, the Albanians would solve it by eating us dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50991	Your Honor, I am asking for an amendment the same way I asked the previous speaker. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50992	For Serbian citizens, it should, the Serbian citizens should know one fact that is very important, which is that there is always enough money in the Republic of Serbia's budget for all needs and for a much better standard, but the problem is that the foreign income and foreign expenditure made on behalf of the Government of Serbia and adopted here in terms of the budget as a law has not been done properly, fairly or professionally, and ultimately, in order to improve citizens' standards. Here's the thing. Foreign income was made so that everything possible and impossible you found a way to tax when it comes to household and individual. So, the fiscal rules you've set exactly, you've set out the exact procedure, the determination of tax collection, as well as the control of the collection of those taxes. However, when it comes to the spending side, foreign spending means there is no clear and there are almost no fiscal rules that determine the procedure exactly, and in particular there is no control of the spending of these funds. No punishment for politicians, no punishment for ministers. You've made a good manger for every ministry for next year. You've done great ways to point out, the taps where you're going to exactly point out the money of citizens who, by strict procedures, you've collected, and that you never answer for it, and that you've never even brought a final bill here for adoption, nor have you made any accounts. You have to pay bills to spend this kind of money, the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who fill a budget like this. So you must bring it to parliament. You have to make a proposal for a final bill how you spent your money for the previous year. You don't even think about it. You didn't think of that either, Mr. Minister, who you're always looking at somewhere in your chin, I don't know why, I guess that's why you saw your colleague here, because I guess you're also the Secretary of State, so you should still show some basic understanding of what the MPs of the SRS are telling you. Do not think that you will not be the next target of Vojislav Seselj, as is now Rasim Ljajic, precisely because of the way he works and how he behaves as minister. You'll be next, you'll be safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50993	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The word is Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50994	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, along with a large agenda and a large number of draft laws, the first and only item of the agenda should be the budget, not the set of draft laws, and then the budget under point 4. In this way, the citizens of Serbia, as we do, are undervalued primarily by their representatives. In the last 15 years, no final bill of the Republic budget has been passed. Since the five-eyed route of the unfortunate EU, and this same road has continued today's SNS. You justify yourself with false statements and call some of the facts that the EU standard is not to adopt the final bill. I ask you -- how do you think you're voting for a new budget, and for 15 years now, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been unable to report where their money was spent? Tax bonds have granted you their financial resources to manage and dispose of them in an honorable and fair manner, and to report to both our MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why keep quiet about public debt? For example, the debt situation on 31.10.2017 was 23.550,953,473 euros and ten months later, on 31.10.2018 in 24.614.097,864 euros. The public debt has jumped, and you have not invested us with MPs, and you have not informed the citizens of what this money is being spent on, which has been spent on loan money over the last 15 years, what this money has been invested in and whether the investment has paid off, whether the funds, if part of it has gone to help some state companies, have brought the desired results, so they are now profitable. All of us, unfortunately, remain deprived of that answer because the Final Account Act has not been passed. Here, the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia are knowingly violated. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, you cannot be trusted, for for six years you have continued with the policy that you have inherited from the DS, and even their bossy Rules of Procedure you are using. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50995	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Dinic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Daniela Stojadinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50996	Thank you, President. I submitted an amendment to Article 2(1) of point 12 of the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security, in which it was intended to allow the proposed amendment to confirm the acceptance of a single application and to be issued in written and electronic form. Therefore, it reads - the confirmation of the acceptance of a single application is the prescribed form, in writing and electronic form, with the information contained in the single application, which is issued to the applicant of the single application as proof that it has been admitted to the single central register of compulsory social security. There is no doubt that the need for more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, as well as the reduction of the costs of administration, is the reason for the adoption of this law. It's not just a balanced budget that's enough to function effectively. Some areas should be regulated, which is also one of the objectives of passing this law. We are facing further editing in many areas and pillars of this country, as in the area of health care, in the area of education, but as we need internal arrangements, so we need a continuous and good foreign policy, which is being implemented today thanks to Minister Ivica Dacic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50997	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50998	Thank you. The proposed amendment also seeks to contribute to the clarity of the text of the proposed law, and thus to its practical application. In particular, it is the concept of assurance as public documents and this legal notion is undeniably not to be specifically defined, except in the part in which one term does not stand, or is not contained in the proposal for a law, which is that it is a public document, i.e. that assurance is a document on registered recorded data from the single central register database in writing and electronic form. Given that the text of the law did not foresee and contained this, to call it, the concept of electronic form of belief, we felt that it should be contained in the proposed text of the law and that the law really has its full meaning and precision. It is of course that the complementary laws with this bill are defined as having an electronic letter and an electronic signature, it is not disputed, but it may be controversial in practical application when we talk about belief, that belief can indeed be contained in electronic form and that it may be in legal traffic in electronic form. I therefore believe that you will have the understanding of this amendment and that, in this sense, by accepting the amendments, you will allow us to contribute to making this law as effective as possible in practical application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u50999	The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51000	When we talk about the Central Register of Social Insurance Obligors, it is good to also consider the general state of the labour market in Serbia. You have introduced us to the latest data from the Republic Statistics Institute, which means that the unemployment rate is currently not a historical minimum, and is only 11.3%. We from the SRS are pleased with the fact that the unemployment rate has been reduced, as we are also pleased with the fact that 47,000 new jobs have been opened in the past year. However, it is very important that citizens know that the unemployment rate is not only being reduced because of job creation, but to an equal extent, if not more, because of the emigration of Serbian citizens abroad. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, Serbia temporarily or permanently left 300,000 working citizens from 2007 to 2014. Also, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, between 30,000 and 60,000 people have moved out in the last four years, which means that Serbia has left half a million citizens in the last decade. It's mostly young and highly educated people who can't find a job at all or get a job for a certain, mostly three months or six months, and then get blackmailed to join a ruling party to get a permanent contract, and also those who are employed temporarily and those who are employed for permanent pay are small and many citizens can't survive, and decide to leave our country. Serbia is among world leaders by the number of migrations of citizens abroad. Only BiH, Venezuela, Haiti and Guinea-Bissau are in front of us. You said your goal was a single-digit unemployment rate, and we believe you'll achieve it. Even if you do not open any new jobs, the unemployment rate will be reduced by the fact that a large number of our citizens will continue to go abroad. Only when you manage to stop the mass eviction of our citizens, or even encourage them to return to Serbia, will it be said that you are leading a successful economic policy. I also wanted to ask whether 47,000 new jobs count and those jobs that aren't actually open, but some MPs of the ruling majority fantasize about them? We had opportunities in October to hear from the vice president of the Vladimir Marinkovic National Assembly, otherwise a member of the party Rasim Ljajic, that in Kursumlia it was open... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51001	You've wasted group time. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51002	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Law. The party I belong to has major objections to this bill, and that's why we won't vote for it. I was born in KiM, where I lived until I was forced to leave my home hearth in Kosovo Pomoravlje. I know from experience what problems our countrymen living in KIM territory face when it comes to this law. I must again point out that this applies not only to our countrymen, but also to all Kosovo and Metohija residents who view the Republic of Serbia as a country of origin. Kosovo and Metohija are not only an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, but Kosovo and Metohija are the spiritual centre of the entire Serbian people. The state of Serbia should look after other countries and see how they take care of their citizens, or their countrymen. For example, the Republic of Bulgaria and how it takes care of its people living in other countries, all of them are provided free health care in Bulgaria and not only that, they all have priority in providing health services without waiting, even if it is the most expensive and complex reviews. We have done nothing to make it easier for our loyal citizens from Kosovo and Metohija to make things easier for the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51003	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51004	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the second member of the draft law on compulsory social security to further define the member mentioned and where I would particularly like to point out the aspect of poverty reduction. Generally, what's important? It is important that all indicators that speak and assess by the relevant institutions on the situation in Serbia are positive and that Serbia is on the right track. The growing trend in the economy and the positive results are recorded in every area of socially responsible life, and that is what citizens feel through the increase in wages and through the increase in pensions and through the increase in the minimum labour price. Yesterday's information regarding the repayment of the debt to the Republic of Serbia of nearly 900m euros, and the budget savings achieved exclusively, is an indication that the previous regime has treated the citizens of Serbia with money, and that today's leadership conducted by the SNS programme is acting, where, for starters, the first in the party's programme is certainly the preservation of peace and stability and these jobs are exclusively in the interest of improving the quality of life of citizens. Domestic and responsible behaviour, implementation of policies in the interests of citizens, careful money management is also an example in Ub municipality, municipalities from which I come, and unlike managers in local self-government and neighbouring districts that systematically destroy them. In Ub municipality, you can see and learn how to conduct politics responsibly. For Ub 2019, it will be revolutionary for the implementation of the project, from year to year there will be a number of built-up kilometers of roads, school renovations, and next year we will have the construction of a new kindergarten, the construction of aqua park, the construction of a closed swimming pool within the school, the expansion of school facilities, the construction of a new green market and the growing number of business activities. Just six and a half years ago, when the current president came to the post, he found such a state of mind in the budget that it was simply difficult to pay one bill, and today we have all of the calmed obligations, never more stable finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51005	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51006	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Finance Ministers Dr. Mali, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in which I always mention and speak about the development of underdeveloped areas, about areas from which I come Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia have had more factories by 2000, but after 2000, these factories have been shut down, people are out of work and have been on the streets. Now slowly, but surely, people get their jobs, they have their own, as they say, social and health insurance, necessarily, done, and you can see a move towards a better life for all these people. The 2019 budget really shows a great opportunity and so far a lot has been done in these areas, a lot has been done, a large number of people have been employed. For the first time in the 2018 and 2019 budget, young couples, unemployed maternity care will be given a great boost to the development of such areas. I've always said that you help agriculture, women in the country. Now, in this budget and in this next budget, there are already plenty of funds being allocated for these purposes, because without investing in our women living in the country, having a financial opportunity to create a marriage community, for young people in the country who have the possibility of living there through the development of agriculture. It's an incentive for people to keep living there. The budget for 2019 is the development, social and real budget that we need to support. I, as a USS MP, but chosen from the SNS list, will support the budget and all laws on the agenda, as I think this is necessary in 2019 and will be a turning point for the development of the southeast of Serbia and for the development of Serbia as a whole. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51007	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51008	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of the Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance should improve the collection of compulsory social security and address the problem in the field of social, health and pension insurance. The procedure for exercising rights in these areas will be shorter and simpler. This law will provide a unique database on social security, insurance and insurance bonds to which data are entered and stored and updated on an electronic daily basis. A single mandatory social security database will also be established to allow unconscious employers, who avoid payment of contributions, to be quickly identified. Since Farmakom, operating in Zajaca, paid contributions to social and pension insurance, says the majority of employees in the company did not have certified health books. When one of the workers reached hospital treatment, it was written to confirm that the patient was hospitalized, and the relatives were carried to the Directorate where they were given an over for a month or two days. Women and pregnant women from Zajaca and the environment, who needed to be examined by gynecologists, were filled in by some special forms that came from the Republic Health Insurance Fund of the Sabac branch, which served as a cover instead of a certified bookbook, and the salaries in the company paid mainly on our hands, thus avoiding any other obligations to the state. The estimated earnings of owners and his associates in Zajaca alone amounted to around 20m euros, and 80% of the children sampled in Zajaca had lead in their blood beyond the allowed upper limit, thus doing "Parmakom". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51009	National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51010	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are talking about the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, but also on the draft budget for 2019. In fact, this budget should be seen from those most sensitive branches, social branches, above all, from the fields of health, social, education and as chairman of the Health and Family Committee, I can say that unlike those of the budgets that were characteristic of the former government, it has made progress in these areas. It is enough to look at the division of 27, specifically the 1802 programme, which speaks of preventive health care, where in 2018 a billion and 31 million 950 thousand dinars are foreseen, and for 2019 a billion 141 million 920 thousand dinars. We all know, first of all, that health care and medicine are involved in how much preventive healthcare means and that practical investment in preventive health care means investing in the future and investing in a health system in general. In addition, almost double the increase is seen in one section that is significant and speaks about the development of quality and availability of health care. In fact, with 379 million dinars, the sum, therefore, which will belong to this particular health sector is now, i.e. 787 million 598 thousand dinars in the proposal. This is what it says about the government's intention, therefore, that health care be made available primarily to everyone. For healthcare not only to be available to everyone, but to have the patient at the heart of the health system and to receive the maximum service compared to the amount of money that is allocated per patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51011	Thank you, Dr. Laketic. The People's MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51012	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today in this debate we are trying to determine some of the guidelines that will be our goals in the future. Serbia is a country facing many obligations, and the fact is that all of us who deal with this business as our primary goal are the well-being of all citizens of Serbia. I hope that this moment will come very soon when we do not commit to GDP, but when we will be able to enable the well-being of our citizens in a way that is free of charge, to be free of health, to allow everyone to be able to school, to have adequate, adequate health care and to be proud of what we do at any moment, because we will allow Serbian citizens to live with dignity, as is the case for every man of a modern and developed country. We are now in a difficult situation with Serbia as a whole. We are facing great challenges now, and we must address these challenges. To solve them, we need to remember one thing - that we need to be unique, that we need to have predetermined goals that are in the interest of all citizens of Serbia and that we cannot allow, because of some personal or small goals, to destroy what is Serbia's future. I hope that we will move very quickly in this uphill line and show that Serbia can and must be a country of decent and happy citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51013	Thank you, colleague Stojmirovic. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51014	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a fellow in the opposition tried to explain to me yesterday why it was not good to have a surplus in the budget. It's best when the budget's at zero, then it's as balanced as the budget. But I have to ask a question - in which country has the world budget been zero? Not in any, never. Because it's impossible to plan the funds so accurately. And how did those before us plan the funds? You know, from 2008 to 2012, they missed 100 billion dinars in a minus, and then that was a good plan, and what we're planning, where we have a surplus, that's not good planning, right? And, thanks to the surplus we made in 2018, we can plan as many as 220 billion dinars for capital investments in 2019. You know, in 2009, for example, at the time of our predecessors, they planned 40 billion dinars for capital investments. That's how well they planned the budget. So in 2010, they planned 33 billion, so in 2012, they planned 22 billion for capital investments. In the end, we'd probably get to zero, but thank God the SNS won, so now it's 220 billion. Of these 220 billion had the means to complete the bypass around Belgrade, the end of the road Surcin – Obrenovac, the construction of the highway Obrenovac – LJig, Preljina – Požega, Moravski Corridor, Kelebia – Subotica, the Novi Pazar – Tutin road, new bridges, tunnels, schools, hospitals, everything that will contribute to raising the quality of life for our citizens. I am particularly pleased to see that there are 200 million dinars to complete the scientific and technological park in Novi Sad, for the youth capital of culture 40 million dinars, for the project of Hungarian-Serbian railways 9.7 billion dinars, for the fast traffic of Novi Sad – Ruma are also provided with funds, which is very important for my city and I welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51015	Thank you, colleague Michin. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Radičević's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51016	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. I have submitted the amendment with the intention to further specify the bill, but also to point to the importance of the existence and work of the Central Register. We have an extremely important bill of law, a law that protects workers from self-will, unconscious employers. If it had been in an earlier period, we all know it. According to some information I received, only in Alexandria between two and three thousand people were left with no mandatory contributions on the basis of social but also pension and disability insurance. These people today have fewer pensions, not because of today's government, but because of today's opposition. The question also arises – how much money these people had to allocate for treatment, because they did not have mandatory contributions paid, and therefore they were not able to verify the health book and provide them with normal treatment. This is no longer possible, because there is a regulated system and a state that cares about its citizens and their rights. The central register of compulsory social security has a large and significant role to play to prevent irregularities in the collection of compulsory social security, as well as to ensure that the rate of collection is high, not to say 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51017	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51018	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr Mali, respected guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to organise an effective form of business and to establish and manage a central database where different bases for the same group of users will be united, in the area of social security. To remind you, the objectives of the law are to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. Article 2 defines certain terms used in this law and their meaning. For example, a single database is an electronically-run database on mandatory social security bonds, insurance and insured persons where data are entered and kept in accordance with the law. Based on these data, we can plan revenue and revenue to draw up a financial plan for 2019, totalling 7.7% of the budget. As for the tender for KC Nis, mentioned in previous discussions, the following is published, a tender for the construction of a KC Nis helipad, worth 5.5 million dinars and will be the first clinical centre in Serbia to have its helipad, except VMA. A large parking lot that connects the new building with the old building KC Nis, as well as a pasarella that will connect two compatible clinics, gynaecological and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51019	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51020	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security and it concerns improving the situation of particularly sensitive, especially vulnerable social groups. What does improving the position of particularly sensitive and vulnerable groups have to do with this bill? There's a way. An increased number of persons employed, an increased number of contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance, for compulsory health care, also means an increased inflow in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and precisely from the Republic of Serbia's budget, funds for financing and improving living standards are allocated to the most vulnerable categories. This means that the budget allows the stability and security of financing of all those vulnerable residents who use the right to receive financial social assistance, the right to add-on to other people's care and assistance, the right to an increased allowance for other people's care and assistance, the right to family accommodation, but that also means that we will have more daily stays for children with development disorders, more pensioners' clubs, more social protection services that are important to these most vulnerable groups of users. Also, I have to point out that wages have increased from 7% to 12%, and that social security salaries will be increased by 9% since January of the month. What I want to compliment the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, is that they worked intensively to curb the grey economy along with the inspectorate between 2013 and 2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51021	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51022	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, in line with the improvement of digitisation as one of our country's drivers of economic development, cannot today, not to mention that the opening of the Office of the State Centre, which is under technical and security standards, is one of the most modern in the region, where key information infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia is located. The State Centre, otherwise, of the Telekom Centre, also installed complete equipment for the central system of ICER electronic parent books, information and security authorities. Centralisation of state infrastructure will help streamline the budget, both on the use of existing state hardware and software, and on future investments. This will contribute to a faster and better quality development of new conditions for both the citizens of Serbia and our national economy. Introduction of e-payments, i.e. the settlement of administrative taxis with payment cards, one of the key steps in digital transformation. Through the portal e-Government, all electronic services to state authorities can now be implemented for the first time, which has not been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51023	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Parezanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51024	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance above all aims to create a unique database that should network different databases, as well as create conditions for effective data exchange between the PIO Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service and the Tax Administration. The biggest benefit of this law is, above all, more effective monitoring and control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security. In the previous four years, around 370,000 people have been employed in Serbia, and unemployment has been reduced from 26%, to around 11.4%, which is a historic minimum in unemployment. By 2012, all these people were out of work, left out on the streets, without pay, without being able to provide for their families. If the state of Serbia had not implemented these economic reforms and provided a sufficient number of jobs, this law would not have such great significance, as all these people would not have had anything to check in this Central Register, because not only would they not receive contributions to compulsory social security but they would not have been paid. So, this law is important because of overcoming a number of problems in practice, a number of problems that follow the collection system, since the control of the bill in the previous period was not effective, and I really don't think there is any single reason why this law is not supported in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51025	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vujadinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51026	Thank you, Chairman. Well, in the importance of a good health care system, unfortunately, we were able to convince everyone here yesterday, primarily by looking at the functioning and work of individuals. However, to the truth, the most important health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and any work and effort in this field and to improve this system is to be appreciated. It's not an easy job, though. After decades of neglect and neglect of all jobs in the area, it is a difficult job, but the shifts after a few years have already been seen seriously. I can testify to that, for example, the city of Subotica. In the period from 2016 on the efforts of the mayors, the province authorities, the Serbian government, the president has serious shifts in the health system's revitalisation. As soon as the current mayor and his team began, we had 10 million investment in the General Hospital facility, when it comes to the space for out-of-body fertilisation. After that, the Subotics know well, it was replaced by a roof at the House of Health and at its most important part of the Ministry of Health Protection of Mother and Child. In co-operation with the German government, a new health home block was built on Kumičić Street. What came after that, most importantly for us in northern Serbia, 26m dinars in co-operation with the province's authorities, was invested in building project-technical documentation when it comes to the reconstruction of the General Hospital in Subotica. Thank God, that was followed by a good response from the government. The government concluded that a decision was made to get into the revitalisation of the General Hospital in Subotica, which I was already talking about, a 35,000-square-square area and a 20m-euro investment. This is exactly the answer to all the insults that we endure every day, starting with the Prime Minister, the Provincial Government, the Mayor of Subotica, and I'm sure the citizens will know... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51027	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Granny, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51028	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which adds paragraph 2. Yesterday, on December 3rd, an international day was marked for people with disabilities in all local self-governments and in my native Sombor, by slogan – "For a Life Without Barrier", and with a motto that reads for this year – "Employing Persons with Disabilities and Ensuring Inclusion and Equality". Accordingly, the situation of people with disabilities must be constantly improved, especially when it comes to their legal and social situation. There is a good legal framework in Serbia, but there is still discrimination against people with disabilities in many areas of social life. To do so more rarely, people with disabilities need to be strengthened, learn how to recognize their needs and acquire skills that will help them choose their personal assistants and train them and support them in a way that suits them best. We saw on the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs the other day, as it seems, and thus it is proven that the only service of a personal assistant can ensure the involvement of persons with disabilities in the community and their equality with others. When the first chapters were opened two years ago, the special focus was on chapter 23, which deals in the broadest sense with the issue of the existence of basic human rights, including minority rights, as well as the rights of minority groups that include persons with disabilities. Accordingly, our country must also initiate procedures to prevent any form of discrimination against people with disabilities. Speaking of opening chapters, it would be very important for us to open Chapter 19, which deals with social policy and employment policy, where the position of disabled people again takes a special place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51029	Thank you, colleague Granny. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boban Birmancevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Birmanevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51030	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, my amendment is certainly in the direction of improving the law, but what I must use in this time to say, that is exactly the opposition's behavior on yesterday, and all in the light of what they have tried to make a hundred full of lies to make it a lie, but of course it doesn't work, so it didn't work out for them. When someone had no arguments, he was trying to prove otherwise that he was right and that the noise and the shouting were bigger, it was more clear that their evidence was thin and that they didn't have them at all. Since they have no arguments, then they must draw attention to themselves in a different way, but what we do know is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia and this year, as well as the previous six years, is being spent in accordance with the law and is being spent in accordance with the needs of Serbian citizens. There are places in this budget for both hospitals and roads, both for highways and corridors and for new clinical centres and for new factories and for new investors and new jobs. That the budget can be spent and in a completely different way than this has been shown by the authorities in the period from 2000 to 2012, and has also shown the City Administration of the town of Sapca in the previous 18 years. What is particularly true for them, it is an abuse of the budget, they have become experts in how to suck up the budget of the citizens of Zapac without returning nothing to the city right now. The fivem euros the mayor spent from the 2015 budget are one of only evidence, and if we take from the other side, it is for Ginis' book to record that after 18 years the government of the 42 rural local community in Šapec, of 46, has neither a meter of waterway nor a meter of sewage network. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is spent in accordance with the law, and Shabac as an example of the alliance for fraud and embezzlement is a real example... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51031	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51032	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the laws that are ahead of us represent the continuation of the reform processes that we started in 2014 when our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic was headed, whose results became visible during 2018, which is witnessed by a number of economic indicators, such as GDP growth of 4.5%, which places us in Europe's fastest growing economies. The unemployment rate at the end of the second quarter of this year was 11.9% and was more than halved compared to 2012, when it was 25.2%. The important fact is that youth unemployment has been reduced from 51.1 to 27.5%. The third year in a row ends with a surplus. At the end of September, at the general state level, the surplus amounted to 54.5 billion dinars, while a surplus of 61.1 billion dinars was reached at the level of the republican budget. Then, when we talk about foreign trade, in the first nine months of this year it was 28.1 billion euros, an annual increase of 10.5%. The current balance of payments deficit in the first nine months of this year amounted to 1.5 billion euros and was fully covered by direct foreign investments of 1.8 billion euros. As we can see, the reform processes carried out by this government are on sound grounds of fiscal and monetary stability and raise the attractiveness of our economy in terms of bringing foreign investors, which contributes significantly to strengthening regional co-operation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51033	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Popovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51034	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of this law will continue the digitisation process in all areas in the Republic of Serbia, and thus increase the efficiency of both the Central Register and other bodies and data users' organisations from the Central Social Insurance Register. Within a year of the introduction of the electronic recipe into Serbia's health system, 20% to 60% of patients who come to the doctor just for prescription. Chronic patients no longer have to go to the selected doctor 12 times a year, but only twice because the electronic prescription allows them to raise prescribed therapy at any pharmacy for six months. In the past year, nearly 60 million recipes have been issued by electronic means. Doctors now have insight into the system and can check whether patients with chronic illness regularly take treatment and have more time to devote themselves to other patients. By the end of the year, it will move entirely to prescribing exclusively electronic recipes in all health institutions in Serbia. Next year, the process of implementing the electronic health card will begin, continuing the digitisation of the health system in our country. A transparent and modern administration is crucial for Serbia's sustainable and economic growth, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is handling this principle, working to digitise all areas in our country. In this way, a healthy and efficient knowledge-based economy will be created, and this will inevitably lead to a comprehensive development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51035	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51036	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, to Article 2. I have submitted an amendment to the central register of compulsory social security, and I would essentially like to say that macroeconomic stability is crucial to the growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. The macroeconomic stability in Serbia is moving positively, and all economic parameters speak, not only key, but everyone else, they have a trend in growth and development, which certainly says that the Republic of Serbia is on a good track, but that road was headed somewhere in 2015, when we passed the Labour Law, in fact, it was the first law that we started the reform course, and when we passed that law, in fact, we set out to regulate the area of labour rights. Labour rights are certainly one of the key, and we are trying to solve them in this law. But the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a series of efforts over the past three years to make this law the way it is. If you look at what the unemployment rate in Serbia looks like, at 11.3%, it certainly is somewhere in the historical minimum, because only a few years ago we had an unemployment rate of 25.9%. Such an unemployment rate cannot positively affect the growth of the macro-economics and Serbia at the moment, in addition to reducing the unemployment rate, by 370,000 increases employment levels. Employment levels have positive effects not only on the economy of these waged families, but is a general social trend that implies that fiscal revenues in the state of Serbia are growing. At the same time, as we reduce unemployment and increase employment levels, there is an increase in the real income of these families, i.e. the people in the sector. As wages grow in the real sector that at the moment there is an increase in these salaries, wages are also growing in the public sector. With 10% practically increasing personal expenditures in the coming period, we can expect the Republic of Serbia's budget, based on revenues, based on tax work on work, to generate higher revenues, thus contributing to the growth of the social gross product. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51037	Thank you. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Obradovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51038	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, esteemed citizens, are ahead of us with the draft law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, as well as a whole set of laws mainly from the financial sphere, as well as a draft law on the 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia, as the most important law in the year. This budget has an express social aspect and this is what connects it to the agenda amendment, and it is characterised by an increase in the standard of living followed by salary increases and pension increases, as well as a development aspect, as it provides for record allocations for capital investments that will boost further GDP growth. Total revenues are estimated at 1.246.2 billion dinars and expenditures of 1.269.1 billion dinars, which gives an estimated deficit of 22.9 billion dinars and 0.4% of GDP, respectively. The final stabilisation of public finances opened a space for leaving crisis measures, which were applied during the fiscal consolidation programme in the past period. The 2019 budget envisions 165.5 billion dinars for capital investments. Thus, the development budget has also been allocated significant resources for healthcare facilities, cultural institutions, for modernising schools, for agricultural activity through subsidies, for social protection. Serbia is on a good and healthy path towards further economic growth and development following the implementation of fiscal consolidation measures and economic stability. All mentioned is the continuity of the policy led by the SNS, with President Aleksandar Vukic. We won't stop because we love our country. In voting day, I will be happy to support the legislative proposals on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51039	National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Savkic's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51040	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the efficiency of social protection institutions. The basic purpose and reason for the adoption of the bill is to regulate the exchange of data with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security, which is entirely between the central register and the tax administration, which is fully realised by the establishment of a uniform collection of taxes and deductions. The draft law establishes a regular monthly analysis and the harmonisation of data from the central register on payment bonds to employers and insurance undertakings, with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security and the notification to the tax administration in all observed irregularities, in order to continue to act, and can promote a high level of payment of contributions to compulsory social security and improve the level of payment. This will make it possible to fill the budget better, and Serbia will have good economic results, the door for new investment and all over the world will be opened, all together with the excellent situation in the budget leading to higher salaries and pensions, and thus to greater living standards for our citizens. This is the goal of our government and President Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51041	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Comrade Joviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51042	Thank you, Chairman. And this law is one of the reform laws that we have been doing for several years, and with a predominant goal of making life easier and safer for Serbian citizens. We have witnessed in recent decades that an inefficient administration on the one hand and the irresponsibility of employers on the other hand have led many Serbian citizens into a situation that they cannot exercise their basic social security rights. The central register we're talking about, I'm experiencing as one powerful tool, with which every single individual, every citizen of Serbia, will be able to gain insight into his social rights at any moment, which is very important. We only remember how many thousands of people when many businesses in Serbia were closed, when he believed he could exercise his pension right, he faced health insurance with the fact that this was not precisely due to the irresponsibility of the administration and the irresponsibility of certain employers. Therefore, this law should be fully supported, as should any other law that goes towards providing an ordinary man, a Serbian citizen, with easier and safer life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51043	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51044	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the provisions of this law are certainly in the function of economic development and this kind of arrangement of the central register, raising the quality and control of data to one higher level are certainly the features of a system that will create and create new growth. We have an unemployment rate at the historic minimum of 11.3%, in the third quarter we have the highest employment rate in the last decades. All of these are clear and visible results. Peace is a basic part of the investment climate besides all other activities and yesterday we had a chance to see individuals laughing at the Golden Lion Award won by President Aleksandar Vukic for Peace. The same people laugh at the Serbian patriarch when he says that Aleksandar Vukic is fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, and now China is laughing, they say, China far away, China is irrelevant maybe because the president of China who met five times with Alexander Vukic told the president of Serbia - the personal relations between the two of us are the relations of the highest confidence, so our two countries have steel relations, and a steel friend is the best of the best. What if the Chinese had not saved 5,000 people in the "Smederevo Irons" and had not invested that is, planned investment in RTB Bor will raise for the double participation of RTB Bora in GDP, in GDP growth. And, for those who mock the Peace Prize won by President Aleksandar Vukic, I believe that Albanians will soon establish the Golden Wolf award and that the same year will receive Vuk Jeremic, and the award will be established for the issue of the year, a question that has brought much to Albanians and a question that has cost Serbia too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51045	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51046	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 to explain how the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security and its provisions encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the financing of institutions of care for social cases. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia through various projects contributes to reducing poverty, reducing social cases. For example, programmes and measures of active employment policy and funds of local self-government or municipalities. Through this programme activity, programmes and measures of active employment policies for which units of local self-government, autonomous provinces within the province’s or local employment action plan provide more than half of the funding needed for a specific programme or active employment policy measures in accordance with the law and criteria set out in the national employment action plan shall be implemented. In fact, local self-government units can also plan, in line with local labour market needs, other programmes or active employment policies to establish and finance their realisation entirely from the AP budget or the budget of the unit of local self-government. I come from the Voždovac municipality and since we came to power in 2010, the Voždovac municipality has been holding a permanent job fair. This year it was held at the Voždovac municipality in November where 42 employers offered 600 jobs. Six jobs from low-skilled to highly educated people. It's just a good example of practice. This is how one responsible government works, and not only the Vozdovac municipality, but the entire Republic of Serbia. What else is important? That the same day was held a forum with the topic of hiring socially excluded categories of sensitive population. Also under the programme, incentives for the recruitment of programme activities are implemented in accordance with Article 45. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51047	I thank you, fellow Members of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51048	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, we have before us the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, under which is also the Law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance. In addition to operations in the area of compulsory social security, the Central Register assumes the management of the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons with regard to the users of public funds, all in order to improve the quality of data or control on the same. The registration of insurance and insured persons in the Central Register shall be carried out by means of a single electronic application. This paper is in line with the Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance with the Labour Act. A single application shall be submitted no later than three days from the start of the operation. It is also precisely defined who is the applicant of the application, then the way in which the application is submitted, the way in which the data is entered in the single application, as well as the responsibility of the applicant for the accuracy of the data entered in the single application. This law will ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51049	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51050	Thank you, Chairman. It probably wasn't a living room across the street today, as soon as they're gone, but, if anything, we'll work easier. My amendment, Mr. Minister, provides direct support to the proposed law and is in direct connection with the support provided by the SNS parliamentary group for all efforts by the Serbian government, but is also directly linked to its results. And the results are visible at every step and, most importantly, undeniable. No one has tried to dispute the results of the Serbian government during this debate, and when it comes to the inflow of foreign direct investment, and when it comes to the rate of economic growth, and when it comes to reducing the public debt, and when it comes to reducing the unemployment rate that is at record level, as we have heard from you, and to all other indicators that say that Serbia is far away today, a far more orderly country than it has been and that every day safe steps go forward. Hence the anxiety that comes these days from these across from us, because in the absence of arguments, they simply have nothing else to do but show nervousness, to roar here, to roar, to insult, to savage, as they did a few days ago. But fortunately in the accident, Serbian citizens have had the opportunity to see it and will know in the next elections that adequate rewards for such behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51051	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. My colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51052	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this law and I believe that the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is very important, which is both the government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Mr Aleksandar Vukic. We have shown in the previous period that we are showing responsible policy and working to improve the lives of our citizens, and exactly the information the minister presented yesterday is in favour of, that in one day, a public debt of $1 billion and $30 million has been paid back. What we have been charged with by those dosmanians who have now become the Alliance for Serbia, an alliance for Serbia's destruction, rather I would say, we are returning and simply working in the interests of our citizens and should not be surprised by the boycott of citizens when their protests are at stake, to which they are called from this hall, to which they have no right. But it's the citizens who judge both us and them and thank them for that and thank you for that huge support. We show from day to day that the better life of citizens is our primary goal and that we will continue to work on it. What I would point out when it comes to the health system, as my amendment applies, is that I am also pleased that the 2019 budget will increase the budget of the Ministry of Health by 7.7%, because we know what hospitals and health homes have left us with those abuses from the yellow enterprise and therefore I call once again on the citizens to continue boycotting them as they have been boycotted in Kruševec. They're not worth all those buses from all over Serbia. Now we can freely say that we are not sandwichers, but they are, but we manage to collect over 65% of the support in cities, and they are not even 0.3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51053	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Martinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two things I'd like to point out. Firstly, Serbia is on a really good path towards real economy growth and the official Eurostat data is also talking about it, i.e. I refer to the Eurostat quarterly monitor, since there is a lot of controversy here as to whether the data of our Republic Statistics Institute is correct or not. So, according to Eurostat's quarterly monitor, Serbia registered GDP growth of 4.9% in 2018 and I can only list a few countries ahead of which Serbia is in favour of GDP growth. These are: Bosnia and Herzegovina 2%, Bulgaria, a member of the European Union 3.3%, the Czech Republic, a member of the European Union 3.1%, Estonia, a member of the European Union 3.5%, Croatia, a member of the European Union 2.7%, Lithuania 3.8%, Romania, also a member of the European Union, 4.1%, Macedonia 1.6%, Slovakia, also a member of the European Union, 3.9%, Slovenia, and also a member of the European Union, 4.2%. I think this is in itself, that these numbers are in themselves commendable for the government of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing I want to point out, since it also complains that the data available by the Republic Statistics Institute is not accurate and that the Republic Statistics Institute is allegedly falsifying data to show the situation in the Serbian economy better than it really is, I want to point out that in December, so in which day, the negotiating chapter 18, which concerns the issue of statistics, will be opened. And what is very important is that the European Commission has not received any additional request from the Republic of Serbia on the opening of this chapter, which means that our standards in the field of statistics are highly consistent with European standards. In other words, the methodology used by the Republic Statistics Institute is largely compatible with the European methodology and in this sense we can say that these data are encouraging, that they are proof that Serbia is on the right track, but above all that these data are correct, which I think is very important for the citizens of Serbia to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51055	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51056	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, my amendment refers to the addition of the position in Article 2. The 2030 Agenda Law should pay great attention to the agenda, which includes one strategic act by the UN and all UN members to implement the Sustainable Development Goals, which relate to poverty reduction, to improving education, including economic growth and climate change. I just think that the 2019 budget is a kind of designed way, and when we talk about balance, because it gets the impression that many have not understood what it means to balance not only on income and expenditure, but on expenditure related equally to the part that involves the production, development, or investment in Serbia and that part of the cost of education, health and culture. What I wanted to draw attention to, since we know that the Central Register is an electronic database and the electronic service that everyone needs to use, is to say something that is a little bit known here, which is that Serbia is really going through huge steps when it comes to the digital economy, in general, the digitisation of Serbia, that it is 41st in the openness of the data, and that is the data published by 24 state institutions with a total of 105 sets of data and 354 files. What should be said is that by such a procedure, namely by implementing the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what we had the opportunity to hear from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who, of course, was supported by Mr Aleksandar Vukic on the moment he proposed the prime minister, is that Serbia's strategic priorities should go towards support in IT entrepreneurship, start-ups, tax policy, foreign markets, as well as strengthening human resources and promotion in general by the Serbian industry in the area of IT. So I think that this law and this proposal really is in line with the government policy that gives us the opportunity to really improve our economy, our economy, and society at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51057	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51058	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Government is taking steps and proposing laws to improve the standard of living of citizens, but also for the overall development of our country. In this context, the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security, which is practically the service of citizens, can also be discussed. It will enable citizens to exercise their rights effectively, and the authorities and organisations responsible for the registration of persons and for the keeping of databases on persons engaged in certain activities will allow the proper functioning of what my amendment applies. For two days, we witnessed an obstruction of Parliament's work. At every shout, I will bring out the successes of the Serbian government. On every bad word addressed, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to present one at least result of the Serbian government, because that is the weapon we have, which is the weapon these representatives of the Council for Serbia do not have. I have been in parliament for two and a half years, and in two and a half years, I haven't heard any successes by 2012 in different areas, in the economy, in the economy, in fiscal and monetary policy, in attracting investment. And now I want to make a huge success with that, and that's a decline in unemployment to 11.3%, but also an increase in wages. In this regard, I stress the attraction of investment as a very significant step. These are priorities and goals for the next period. I'd like to remind you that 370,000 people have been employed in the last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51059	Thank you. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Miloevich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51060	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 2. The bill proposes to add the 2nd position, which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector’. This amendment further defines the concepts and terms set out in this Article of the law. I have already noted in the previous presentation, on the subject of amendments to this bill, that private sector employers are those who make a major contribution to employment. In this regard, they also make a major contribution to social security. The opening of a growing number of private firms, companies recognised worldwide, is a trend Serbia has recorded in the past few years, under the leadership of the SNS. That is why this authority, headed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is constantly working to reduce unemployment and improve the quality of life of our citizens and all of this is one of the top priorities. A significant drop in unemployment has been observed in the municipality of Arangelovac over the past few years. Of the 5,800 unemployed in our municipality, that number has fallen to about 4,100 unemployed people according to the latest data. In constant communication with the National Employment Service, we are getting data that currently in our municipality there is only over the biodemand of demand for dozens of new jobs. It is a clear indication that the economy is developing, recovering and moving forward. All this brings us into line with the need for the development of the economy to move forward with the new trends of modernization of our society. By creating an efficient system of social security records and control, which will bring this law, we will also create greater security for our citizens in this area that is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51061	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51062	I thank the chairman. The proposal for this law is most directly related to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, as it aims to regulate the social insurance register, reduce abuses and remove any type of congestion in the payment of compensation for users. Why are the objectives of sustainable development important and in what part are they related to the proposal for this law? Because implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals refers to reducing the vulnerability of social insurance, to mobilising all resources in the country, to end the forms of poverty. Transparency of the register that a country leads for social insurance may be an incentive to programmes and projects that would support accelerated investment and actions to eradicate poverty. Employment is very important, only in the third quarter of this year, the number of employees of 3.3% was registered, representing 70% more employees in the Serbian state compared to the same period last year. It is also important to highlight the minimum labour price of 130 dinars in 2017, from 130 dinars in 2017 to 143 dinars, starting in January 2018, to apply an increased amount, in order to increase the amount in 2019 from 1 January of this budget to 155,5 dinars. I will issue another very important piece of information that from 2014 to today, wages have increased by 26% in our country. These are all the reasons behind the support of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51063	I'd like to thank my colleague Filipovski. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Palalych, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When the effects and consequences of the adoption of this law of the central register of mandatory social security are seen clearly, the government's seriousness and determination to carry out reforms in a number of important areas are seen. I would point out, first of all, the seriousness of the government to introduce fiscal discipline and introduce responsibility in society. Without fiscal discipline and without payment responsibility and collection of contributions, we can hardly talk about responsible and reformed society. This is a way to avoid tax ejaculation and this is a way for all market participants to meet their obligations. On the other hand, this law confirms the government's determination to reform the state administration. When you look at the objective of the law, when you look at its structure, when you look at how it is conceived, when you look at the modernisation it brings into the tax system and into the fiscal system, it's clear that this is about another step in the reform of the state administration. On the other hand, perhaps more specifically, thirdly, here is spoken or promoted respect for the rights of employees, respect for the rights of the state and respect for the fact that employees have to count on their rights in a working relationship, or those entrepreneurs who are taxpayers of payment of contributions, to be protected against the state authorities or to some stronger in this process, such as the employer. So, this whole bill is about the government's intention to seriousise the state. I would point out one more thing here and draw attention and praise the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Serbia's intention that after many, many decades finally enters the process of reforming the flat-rate taxation, because it is something that will certainly contribute to the improvement of fiscal policy in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51065	I thank my colleague Palalic. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here is my colleague Jokic, for up to two minutes, there is no discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51066	I have a nervous system of you because you're the chairman and I'm afraid you'll interrupt me after one minute. Those who came to power on October 5th, they destroyed the army and the police. We've restored the police and made them stronger. The army will soon be stronger than it was. But they destroyed the SDK - Social Accounting Service. The greatest evil they could have done to our society was abolishing the function of the Social Accounting Service. After that, the ruthless robbery of Serbia began. What we're doing today is one branch, one branch of what the Social Accounting Service was doing. We must, Minister, find a way to centralize payment traffic. Payments must be centralised. To be clear, these state auditors who work, they have to review all the final accounts, all the budgets of all the local self-government. So it's no longer a problem in creating and opening new jobs, money, capital. What's our problem? We've come to the situation that our problem is to spend it. How does that go away? There's no control. It's not a problem with the Budgetary System Act, we can build on it as much as we want, but the Budgetary System Act, Mr. Minister, I am a serious man and I responsibly argue that there is no local self-government that applies it 100%. Who's gonna control that? Secondly, the inspection must be a republic. They must be the most capable people, well-paid, in the Republic. There is no inspection in municipalities and cities. She's in office as mayor and president of the municipality, so that's business. Without supervision, it's not worth pouring into barrels that are hollow. Now, we're in this situation. If you don't do it, we won't do much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51067	Thank you, colleague Yokic. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51068	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister Mali and his fellow Members, dear fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, we are today, the second week in a row, discussing modern laws that will improve the quality of life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, from this place I welcome the efforts of the Finance Minister, Mr. Malo, for all those reform processes and all those positive results that we can really see every day in every place. Indeed, they encourage the great efforts that the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, makes, but also by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 concerning the definition of individual terms of the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. I want to inform all citizens of the Republic of Serbia what it is, in fact, the Central Register that we are discussing. The central register is an electronic database that imports four important bases, four important institutions in the Republic of Serbia, it's about the Republic Fund for PIO, it's about the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but also about the National Employment and Tax Administration. Now it will be very easy for citizens, only one click is needed to visit the Central Register portal and to check the data that are really necessary for our employees, to check the data on business, business institutions and which are obliged to report and report citizens of the Republic of Serbia about their work, so that we do not have all the negative effects and negative phenomena that we had in the previous period, when it comes to not connecting their employment, when it comes to citizens not having enough information about what they need.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51069	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51070	Last sentence. All the reforms we are doing, we are doing to make our citizens in the Republic of Serbia better and to make the Republic of Serbia more modern.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51071	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51072	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow this transfer, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on the central register of compulsory social security. Article 2 refers, it explains in 19 points the terms and terms used in the law. What this law adopts as significant components is: firstly, more effective control of the collection of social security contributions. And the other thing is that this is now practically one electronic-based database based on IT technologies. The third thing, this law, i.e. the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance with the Labour Act, is in line. The fourth thing, due to citizens of information, is that the Central Register takes over the management of the employee register, selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in public funds users. Yesterday, my colleagues said, in essence, that citizens understand, this law is another law in a series of laws that provides them with existential and social security. Efficient control of the collection of all contributions that go with all the incomes made by our citizens, as an example of contributions for pension, health insurance, that the situation that was at the time of 2003 is no longer repeated, so that later when the SDK was abolished, when many citizens were not paid pension, as well as health insurance, they did not have their social, existential security due to such failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51073	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? My friend Becic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51074	Honored chairman, Serbia is committed to implementing economic and social reforms, launched by President Aleksandar Vukic. Serbia's GDP growth is expected to exceed 4% at the end of the year, and a surplus in the budget is expected. Serbia's priorities continue to improve Serbia's economy, reform state-owned enterprises, improve public administration and promote e-government. Serbia is the leader in attracting foreign investment in the Western Balkans region. The state is working daily to improve the business climate, so that the number of investors in the future will be even higher. The role of the National Assembly as the holder of the legislative authority in Serbia's reform processes is significant. The fact is that Serbia, with President Vukic, has begun to win, implement successful reforms, create jobs, raise its international reputation seriously and become a leader in the region and a stability factor and become more internationally influential. This results in the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo from one state and country at a time. It is clear that because of this, and the fact that we have a situation to join all those who want to see Serbia on their knees as easy prey for robbery and humiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51075	Thank you, colleague Becic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51076	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I said that the previous regime in 2003 destroyed and shut down the best organised institution in our country, it is the Office for Accounting and Payment, and that Serbia was headed through robbery privatisations, where over 2,000 state-owned enterprises were destroyed. Today I will look back on the results of the responsible government. All the legal solutions we adopt, whether it is the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance or all other legal solutions, are in the function of growth and development, as is the amendment I have submitted. So as of January 1st, we will have a minimum labour price of 155.3 dinars, the minimum will be slightly higher than 27,000 dinars. The comparisons, expressed in euros in January 2012, were 177 euros, with more than 228 euros as of 1 January 2019. So our minimum minimum is 52 euros. Since our minimum wage is up by 52 euros, it means that an inflow based on the contribution of the PIO Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund will be higher by 28 euros, so now, respected citizens of Serbia can see what that amount is. We have therefore a significantly larger inflow and a PIO fund and a Republic Health Insurance Fund. That's why we have new hospitals today, and kindergartens, and railroads, and that's why today we're investing in population policy measures, and in travel infrastructure, so today, on the one hand, we're working on discharging the economy, while on the other hand we're increasing pensions, and wages, and capital investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51077	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to have one of these laws. I listened to my colleagues from the former regime, so here's to inform the citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs that by 2013, we didn't have a central register for issued state-level securities, so it didn't even know how much the state of Serbia owed on various grounds. That's what the former regime's representatives used here to talk about how this government took taxes from citizens, they took them, and we have to pay back their debts. Another very interesting piece of information says that they have reconciled their obligations to the London and Paris Club, that they have returned the old foreign exchange savings, so here I am informing them not to tell the truth again, that another two billion euros or dollars must be returned to the London and Paris Club, and today bonds from the old foreign currency savings are being charged. The difference between us and them is that we don't take new loans to return to the London and Paris Club, we pay off old foreign exchange savings, but we do it from the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Former regime colleagues can read and try to cheat Serbian citizens with various amounts in nominal and percentage numbers, but what is most important, the result exists, it is seen, our result is seen, their result is seen. Based on their results by 2012, I am telling you today in 2018, Serbia would not exist if they had remained in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51079	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51080	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I just noticed that Dragan Gilas has a little more free time, it's obvious that I'm manipulating some data, he probably didn't follow what I was talking about yesterday, so I'm just gonna do it one more time. The state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia on yesterday is 23,221,357,460 dinars. We returned billions and 30 million dollars yesterday and thus reduced our public debt's participation in GDP from 56.1% to 54.1% with a tendency to further decrease, and that is the policy we are leading, a policy of stabilising our public finances. What is particularly important, the debt we paid back yesterday did not return through refinance, through taking new loans, but we returned from the savings in the budget that we made during this year, and this is big news for the citizens of Serbia, shows that we are responsible for each dinar, and for Dragan Gilas once again – stop manipulating data that is important to the citizens of Serbia. This is yesterday's data, and I'm asking you to use that information in what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51081	Thank you, Minister. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51082	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment because I want to highlight the importance that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is paying such attention to modern technologies, digitisation, electronic business. The Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance in many ways illustrates this very communication, the exchange of data, the exchange of documentation between different authorities of the administration, and thus encourages the administration to be the sole service of citizens. This shows that we are a modern country, on the way to full digitisation and full transparency, to know what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, to know how to spend the budget and thus significantly improves the reputation we have. I'll just come out of the subject briefly and say that this particular reputation, and how we treat our country, enables certain countries to withdraw recognition of Kosovo and I congratulate my heart on it. As left-wingists, we advocate that the laws be social measures, such as the current budget, and that is why we will vote in favour of the budget, as the status and standard of citizens will greatly improve. Serbia is on its way to reducing unemployment below 10%, it is on its way to not having a single man waiting on the waiting list for homes for old, kindergartens, health institutions. From January 1st next year, the minimum earnings will be over 27,000. That means a lot to us from the Socialist Movement, because wherever we're in, we're in favour of social measures and we'll always be there for the citizens and everyone who needs help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51083	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The People's MP Aleksandra Jevtic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51084	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, in yesterday's presentation, I noted that the budget of Vranjacka Banja Municipality for 2019 is the same as the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The very fact that in the last few years a large number of hotels have been built in Vrnjačka Banja, a good investment base has been created, first of all, by regulating public areas, municipal infrastructure and a large number of tourist attractions. It also plays a major role in the decision to build a Moravia corridor and to expect the opening of the "ships" airport in 2019. Of course, I have all of this to thank primarily Mr. Alexander Vukic and, of course, the rest of the departments. I expect, as so far, of course, government support and resolution ministries to support such large projects. Since Vranjska Banja's strategy is precisely the development of this sport tourism, I have to repeat again yesterday's request that I so clumsyly formulate. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Finance Minister, to help us bring an end to the water sports training center. We did the first stage where the pool was installed. However, to help us cover that pool and, of course, let it work. Finally, on behalf of the municipal leadership, I would like to thank the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government for supporting the construction of the football field and hope that we will continue to have such good co-operation and progress, as well as the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51085	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51086	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, i.e. Its adoption will provide a unique database on social security, insurance and insurance insurance companies whose data are entered and stored, shall be updated on an electronic basis. Law-making should eliminate all necessary expenditure in the public sector. It's also being done to upgrade the e-Government for reasons to reduce paperwork. In order to allow for faster and more efficient exercise of rights and to comply with the requirements regarding electronic exchange of data between national authorities, i.e. the development of electronic administrations, it was necessary to provide a legal basis for the integration of all others in the register and in the register in the Republic of Serbia. Given that the central register is primarily an electronically managed database and electronic service based on IT technologies. One of the objectives of the proposed law is to cut costs in the administration. I think this law is great for all working people in the country of Serbia. I think it's a good thing we're bringing it in and I'm asking all of my respected and respected fellow Members to support this bill in the voting day. Of course, if they have the strength and the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51087	Thank you, colleague Tarbuk. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, bag buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51088	Dear Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, we have before us a draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to organise an efficient form of business, establishment and management of a central database where different bases will be united for the same user groups in the area of social security. The objectives of the law are to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. The amendment that I proposed on the proposal for this law provides for Article 2 to add Article 2 which reads - the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the efficiency of social protection institutions, and all with the aim of further defining Article 2 of the proposed law. The social protection area is aimed at improving the social status of citizens on a personal, family and wider social plan. Social protection should strengthen social cohesion and cultivate the independence and ability of people to help themselves. An efficient social protection system should respond to citizens' needs on new circumstances and support vulnerable and marginalised individuals and groups who need organised assistance from the community and state, as well as citizens who are unable to participate in economic activity, provide their existence. In the overall social protection system, social protection institutions play a significant role, and this is why it is extremely important that they play as much efficiency as possible, since only with the most efficient social protection institutions can we fully meet all the needs of their users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51089	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51090	Thank you, Your Honor. This is my second amendment to the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, with a special reference to economic growth. We know that the basic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is economic growth and greater employment. After successfully completing fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic stability, I am proud to point out that our country's economic growth has come to an enviable level of 4.5% in the first nine months of 2018. The increase in living standards, through the increase in pensions of citizens and wages, the increase in real income through higher employment, which is 11.3%, speaks through the planned increase in labour prices, so that from January 1, the minimum wage of 24,000 will come to 27,000 dinars, higher employment in the private sector, and the reduction of employment in the public sector. All of these have an impact on our country's economic growth and economic progress. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, you heard from Minister Synisha Malo that our country's public debt reached 54.1% of GDP. Serbia, our country stands in the good way of further good, economic and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51091	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mladen Lukić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51092	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, more than 127m dinars are scheduled for next year's budget of the Republic of Serbia to edit border crossings with Republika Srpska. Baji's Basta envisions a reconstruction of the bridge towards Skelani in Republika Srpska, worth five million dinars for 2019. The construction of the bridge is steely, covered by corrosion and it is necessary to take measures to resuscitate and reconstruct the bridge. The bridge's lighting is also bad, which is unacceptable, given that it is a border crossing with the Republika Srpska. Instead of passing over the bridge in a few minutes, the trucks go to the Zvornik border crossing, where the goods travel along the riverbanks about 400km to end up with customers all miles away, two from Skelano. Over the bridge, I can't get a fire wagon, I can't get an ambulance. Because of such a situation, Skelani who used to be a municipality in Republika Srpska simply stopped. Skelani are known to the world public for the violent attack of a criminal horde of Muslim forces, when 69 innocents were killed, of which 34 women and five children and 175 people were wounded by Serbian nationality. The story of 14-year-old Cvetko Ristic, who was killed that day by his father, mother and underage brother and sister, went around the world. The economic gain of this project is immeasurable, and a regular and continuous transition of goods means life for both municipalities. The citizens of Bajina Basta will be eternally grateful to the government of the Republic of Serbia for this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51093	Thank you, colleague Lukic. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51094	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. Reasons for the adoption of this law contained in the need to organise a more efficient form for the establishment and management of a central database where different databases for the same user groups in the field of social security will be pooled. The introduction of a central database on social security bonds to employers and insurance companies, which requires, among other things, more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. I will refer to the individual terms set out in Article 2. The bill says mandatory social security organisations are organisations for compulsory pension and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance. Data users shall be considered mandatory social security organisations, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Administration Affairs, the authority responsible for the activities of reported incomes, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the Labour Inspectorate and other bodies designated in that capacity by this or specific law. With this, we have met the need to organise a more efficient form of business, establishment and management of a central database where different databases for the same group of users in the area of social security will be united. In voting day, I call on fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51095	Thank you, fellow Mitrovica. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51096	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, agriculture is a very important branch and we pay attention to it. So, as the country was lagging behind, so agriculture was lagging behind, and the largest poverty was in the country. Nevertheless, the surplus in food production, in relation to exports and imports, was 1.2 billion. We farmers, they didn't pay off the farmers in the right way, we repay ourselves. The subsidies paid in agriculture are now 41 billion and 580 million, instead of 19 billion, in 2012. There are some colleagues here, especially from that parliamentary group of yellow vests who are trying to prove that 19 billion were more, with the same value of the euro in 2012, than 41 billion and 580 million next year. So an increase of 110% is seen as an injustice, and a decrease of 110% thinks it was just. I believe that when farmers get a slightly bigger incentive they can be due, given that they owe pension and disability insurance and health insurance somewhere over two billion euros and I believe that in a certain way they can be compensated, i.e. to write off parts of the interest, parts of the debt, and that once they feel like people, given that the former regime has completely abandoned them and abandoned them. In that belief, I would like to say that a real "cowocide" was carried out in the country. So we have here a former agriculture minister, who is not here today, who was savaged quite yesterday, who has reduced the number of cows in Serbia by 200 thousand during his term. So when only plants are left, when you export raw materials for other people's livestock, for other people's meat and milk production, then you don't make a social product that would have made if it hadn't been for those pests in the previous period. I believe that things are improving in livestock, I believe that we will find jobs for both people in the country and in agriculture and in the processing, that by developing the processing industry, we will withdraw livestock production, and therefore also plant production, and make serious GDP, and that these subsidies will be bigger and bigger each year thanks to the processing industry. I urge farmers and representatives of local self-government to help farmers to submit as much as possible. So at this point, there are 350,000 owners applying for incentives. I call on other non-registered officials, both representatives and presidents and local authorities, to help farmers and to hire several officials to help them fill out that paperwork and each of them to get one part of these subsidies and incentives, since when we calculate how many registered agricultural holdings we have, each of them loses around 1,000 euros in subsidies. I want everyone to have equal chances of applying and getting a boost from their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51097	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51098	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, we work, we create modern Serbia, we change people's minds, we build highways, we open factories, we employ workers. That is why you, gentlemen of the opposition, should be proud, because we have managed to create a modern society from the ruined and destitute countries, the conditions in which you have brought it, to create a modern society, to achieve a surplus, to bring unemployment to 11.3%, to raise wages and pensions. The government of the Republic of Serbia brings and implements reforms. She made it so this year and projected in the budget that the KIM budget increased by one billion dinars to 6,750,560,000 dinars. That is why we are in a unique and complex, peaceful way fighting the humanitarian disaster they want to create for us Albanian authorities in the KIM area, and introducing 100% fees on goods from Serbia. In a peaceful way, we show that we are ready to respond to these commandments, to those who want to deny us the right to live, to be treated, to learn. Their real desire is to banish us from their hearth. But what do our opposition colleagues want? Why didn't they do something during their reign? Why did they allow Kosovo's independence to be recognised during the DOS rule and the borders with Serbia were set in 2011. Why do Serb representatives, the Serb list, accuse, call criminals? They are accused without evidence and arrested by Serbs, who were arrested at dawn on November 23rd. Because we fight to preserve what can be preserved and survive in our spaces or hearths, or because we believe in the politics of our President, Alexander Vukic, and we give him full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51099	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51100	Thank you, Chairman. In Article 2. The proposal for a law explaining a single database, i.e. the Central Register of All Insurance and Secured Persons, which is primarily an electronic-led database and an electronic service based on high IT standards and performances, I am of the opinion that a position 2 should be added – the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to improving the protection of agricultural insurance companies. I would stress that by introducing an electronic administration in Leskovac citizens very quickly and simply can through the 48 system report a communal problem. This system provides several different ways to report communal problems. Within the shortest time period of the public service, public enterprises are on the ground and within 48 hours, citizens can get an answer on the status of the problem reported. In addition to the 48 system, a virtual parent is available to Leskovec citizens. Citizens of Leskovec can fill in and forward a request for copies and credentials from the books and books of citizens headed for the town of Leskovac. For those living abroad, a virtual mother for abroad is available. Also, the citizens of Leskovci have at their disposal an electronic register of administrative procedures that enables quick and reviewed access to information on how to apply for rights under local self-government. Afterwards, citizens may monitor and search ads and other content and in public procurement procedures, a united procedure that procedures or a set of procedures in the area of construction, carried out by the city administration on behalf of and at the expense of the parties from obtaining the necessary conditions and other documents from republican and local public undertakings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51101	Thank you, dear colleague Bogatinović. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51102	I thank the chairman. Social security is a form of social security that provides insurance, i.e. to members of their families with social protection in case of illness, disability, age, accidents at work and unemployment. Many Serbian citizens have achieved their social security rights with the help and respect of the rules adopted in the SNS mandate. The purpose of social insurance, as part of a country's social policy, has its own users, is to provide insurance to persons in cases of security risks, such as age, illness, motherhood, labour injuries and unemployment, in part or in full compensation for income losses. In this way, the state shows that it takes care of its citizens regardless of religion and nation, which in Novi Pazar has repeatedly shown. The definition of individual terms in the bill creates a way of clearer interpretation of the legal rules, which allows for the creation of a positive climate. Such a climate and how it is necessary and we can expect only positive moves from such a bill. Knowing that the insurance company acquires certain social security rights when an insurance case occurs, i.e. when the security risk is realised, is a kind of legal certainty that Serbia provides to its citizens. In Novi Pazar, legal security puts strength and faith into a better life, because our country is a place where all citizens are equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51103	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honored ministers, respected colleagues, the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which is on the agenda, touches every citizen. Social security is a form of social policy and social protection guaranteeing to employees and members of their families material security and health care. Under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, social security covers health, pension insurance, disability and unemployment insurance. The law is passed to regulate the social security system and the budget itself has a social aspect. Thanks to the result of the courageous reform processes launched by President Aleksandar Vucic, following his principles and fighting for the interests of the Republic of Serbia, which began in 2014, which resulted in a great economic indicator, 18.7 billion dinars will be invested in healthcare in 2019. One billion more than in 2017. This will have a lot to do with increasing the level of health care. In the Republic of Serbia, by law, health care is mandatory for all population. In the Republic of Serbia, health care is free. Few countries have free health care. This is very important, this is a fluid to be guarded, given how expensive health care is. Health is national capital. Only a healthy man is productive and only so returns and contributes to the community. The health system goes along with the development of society. Only the growing economic strength of the Republic of Serbia will make it possible to improve healthcare. We now have only progress as an imperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51105	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Jovica Jevtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51106	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, on Article 2 of the proposed solution on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, I submit an amendment that precisely defines the link between the proposed legal solution with the even development of the Republic of Serbia. A set of reform laws that are before lawmakers is a healthy basis for society's progress, as they will continue to increase investment activities, reduce unemployment and improve living standards for the final result. The reasons for the adoption of the law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance are contained in the need to introduce a central database on social security bonds, employers and insurance. The aim of the law is to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. The reasons for the adoption of the law are also the need for comprehensive management of the register of employees, selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in public funds. In view of the fact that the Central Register represents a unique database of all insurance and insurance personnel, this law assumes competences in the management of the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons with regard to the users of public funds, all in order to improve the quality of the data, i.e. control of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51107	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51108	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is heading towards connecting this law to Serbia's comprehensive development with a special reference to the achievement of social equality. This law will significantly contribute to the achievement of social equality as it will allow for more effective control of the collection of contributions to compulsory social security, but also the reduction of administrative costs. The achievement of social equality in Serbia will certainly be affected by the 2019 budget, as significant funds are planned in the 2019 budget to increase wages and pensions, as well as for relief, i.e. to relieve the economy. Also, the budget of the Republic of Serbia will allow social equality for the citizens of Leskovec, as the 2019 budget has planned to provide significant resources that will allow better living conditions for the citizens of Leskovec. I will single out only two capital investments that are planned for Leskovac through the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. At the site of the Ministry of Environment for the construction of the main city collector, 430 million were planned, the importance of this project is too much to say, and 250 million were set aside to complete the construction of a bypass around Leskovec. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic announced yesterday that a tender for the end of the bypass will be launched in December and that she is moving with the works to spring. The tour around Leskovec implies a complete reconstruction of Bulevar Nikola Pasic and the re-routing of all freight traffic from the central city core, so that in this way the citizens of Leskovec will be given better quality and better living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51109	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear citizens of Serbia, what do we have in Serbia today? Today in Serbia we have stable economic and economic growth, today we have a constant reduction in poverty, a constant reduction in our country's debt, a steady growth of 4.5%, and earlier we had a minus 3.5%, today we return debts not by taking some other loans at much higher interest, today our public debt is in constant decline, today we open, I would say, on a Sunday and daily level even new factories and new jobs, 370,000 new jobs in Serbia. What made us and how did we get to it? We came constantly insisting on peace, stability, work, industriousness and value of all of us, and those who deal with politics and begging citizens for patience and for faith in the policy he has declared and led by Aleksandar Vukic in the Republic of Serbia and the SNS. In order to maintain all of this, in order to increase the number of jobs in the following year, to continue working on increasing both wages and pensions and strengthening our economy, our economy, we need to maintain peace and stability. We must not enter the circuit some would like, because it is the only opportunity to reach power in Serbia, through chaos and through riots. For us and for Serbia, the only possibility of being stable and living normally and developing is peace and stability. I therefore appeal to the public in Serbia and to the citizens and to the media and to all of us living here to believe in the only possible policy, which is this policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51111	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51112	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, as I said yesterday in explaining amendments to Article 1, there is a comprehensive, good, modern draft of the law, a bill for this time, during electronic communications and the fast internet, a bill that will allow each of us to at any moment, press a button, see everything that should stand when it comes to our social givings, that someone should not be surprised after a year or two days when he goes or to the PIO Fund to submit a request for retirement and see that someone has not paid him certain taxes and contributions, which he had the right to do in his working relationship, a bill that supports all those efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and us in this parliamentary majority and which says that we are thinking about the future, that we are creating for the future. So all that we're doing and all the laws we've been making for these last six years are just work on the future, on tomorrow that's going to be much better than our past and much better than the present, because from a difficult time we've managed to run something that's been hard to run. When many of us today proudly pointed out that in just one day we reduced public debt by a billion and a few euros, by two index points, that means a lot. This law will allow us not to think about reductions in some future period, to think about receipts and much higher personal incomes and a better standard for each of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51113	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51114	Dear Vice-President, honourable representatives of the government, this law and amendment that I have submitted will contribute to the control of social security contributions and will improve the Central Register. It was not the goal of Dragan Gilasu, known as the Giki Mafia, the Central Register, but of his private firms, through which he set up 500m euros. Here it is, respected citizens of Serbia, believe it or not these days, via "The Voice of America", I quote "Blood conflicts in Serbia". I ask him – does he want to send Alexander Vukic to The Hague, as he did with Slobodan Milosevic? It wasn't Vuk Jeremic's goal, called "Wolf descendant", the Central Register, but membership in an international gang of thieves, frauds and bandits, who are these days stuttering in a court in New York at the trial of his friends, Patrick Hou and Tidian Gadija. It is not the aim of Sashi Jankovic, called "Sale Prangi", the Central Register, but of diving crocodile tears due to Pristina's debacle for entry into Interpol. It is not the goal of Bosko Obradovic, known as "Bosko Lupeti", the Central Register, but of diving tears because of the debacles of Pristina and because he cannot steal 100m euros from Hilandar anymore. It is not the goal of Dusan Petrovic, called Dule Kravoci, the Central Register, but regrettable that he can no longer slaughter 250,000 cows as he did while he was a minister. It is not Djoke Vukadinovic's goal, called Đoko Vlah, the Central Register than two and a half million people from Lutrija, Serbia can take more. Dear citizens, it's an alliance of robbers. The robber of the freebarrow, the swindlers, the mobsters, the lesbians, the windmen, the cuticles and the lufti butts. That is why this amendment is very important that such moral gromats are not born on the political scene of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51115	Thank you, Professor. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51116	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which reads in Article 2. The bill adds the 2nd position -- the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on monetary policy. Article 2 The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security bearing the title – the meaning of individual terms – is explained the meaning of certain terms used in this law, all for the sake of a more consistent and fairer application of the law. The 2019 Budget Act, as well as other laws on the agenda of this session, will contribute to the achievement of the basic principles of fiscal policy led by this government, the SNS and President Aleksandar Vucic. The Serbian Progressive Party also stressed in its programme principles in 2011 that the fiscal system and fiscal policy of each state have mirrored its efficiency and social justice. The stability of the fiscal system depends on the security and reliability of long-term investment and savings. The finance minister, Mr Sinisa Mali, said in explaining the 2019 draft budget that stabilising public finances created a space for abandoning the crisis measures applied to fiscal consolidation of previous years. The draft budget has evenly distributed fiscal space, allowing for an increase in pensions and salaries. This, as well as redistributing the economy and enabling the new investment cycle, constitutes the basic characteristics of the 2019 budget, in addition to all that is stated in the explanation presented by the Government and the Minister at this session. For all this, I call on Members of Parliament to support this law, the 2019 Budget Act, and other laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51117	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51118	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow Members of the Basic Register of Obligation Social Insurance is the database of all employers, debtors and will allow us to control the collection of social security contributions. It is very important to make information flow between the tax administration and the Social Security Centre and, of course, the database which is the basis of this centre is largely based on information technologies. I'm glad you recognized that a long time ago by introducing and putting into use the electronics administration. What I must stress is that since October 2018, an info line has been opened that allows citizens of the Republic of Serbia to access the data necessary for this documentation and to be filled in to treat children and adults abroad, to what steps the processing of these data has taken and when only a solution for certain treatment arrives. The Republic Health Insurance Fund in Zrenjanin is working in co-operation with its facilities in Novi Crnja, Novi Becej in Secnje and Žitište and the Republic Health Insurance Fund is overbooked when users arrive during the day to verify their payments for treatment outside the parent branch. I am glad that there is an understanding of the employees to handle these demands and to help them in their difficult situations. The issue of health care and health care in the city of Zrenjanin has been done a lot. The General Hospital, Djordje Jovanovic, received an angiosala, an x-ray, accreditation, invested 100 million dinars in the hospital. What is necessary is a magnetic resonance to enable patients to be diagnosed and not sent to other centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51119	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tanja Tomaševic Damnjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51120	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security with the aim of further defining the concepts and Article 2 of this Act. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to organise an efficient form for the establishment and management of a central database in which different bases will be united for the same user groups in the area of social security. The objectives of the law are to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51121	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51122	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which further defines Article 2 of this Law, which specifically points to the promotion of medical institutions. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security provides that the central register runs a single insurance base, the register of contributors, provides that funds to carry out the central register are provided through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance determines that the work of the central register of compulsory social security is being supervised. Thanks to the responsible work of President Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the leadership of the SNS programme created conditions for the development of the Republic of Serbia and for the improvement of the quality of life of all Serbian citizens. The resulting surplus in the budget allows for further large investments in the area of health. So the new projects planned in the 2019 budget are: the establishment of a national organ transplant programme in the Republic of Serbia of 80 million dinars, the implementation of a national breast-feeding support programme, the family and development care of newborns of four and a half million dinars, an oral health programme for children and youth in the Republic of Serbia worth millions of dinars. The development of Serbia's healthcare, which is financed from the International Bank's credit for reconstruction and development, includes the acquisition of two linear accelerators for the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51123	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51124	Thank you, Chairman. Since we have multiplely increased employment, it is crucial that the system is regulated and controlled by social insurance, and this is what enables and regulates the Law on the Central Social Insurance Register, and this is all very important because this government and President Vukic will continue to bring investors and raise the standard of life, to open new factories and employ our citizens. Growth, investor confidence has contributed to an increase in investment. Investment growth has been affected by reforms such as labour market reforms, speeding up the procedures for authorising building permits by expanding the application of electronic administrations. Structural reforms and an improved business investment environment have a great result, which is the fact that over 70 new factories have been opened in Serbia and the past four years. It gives citizens the trust they have shown us, and this government will continue to fight for every new job. We must never forget who is responsible for the huge number of enterprises gone bankrupt, which so many people lost their wages and jobless jobs. We must not forget who is responsible for the robbery privatisations and who had to go through the thorns and carry all this burden so that Serbia would be respected and appreciated in the world again. We now have a new arrangement with the IMF, and for investors it means that Serbia is a stable and attractive country for investment, which means development and new jobs, security for thousands of families, means a better life and a better future for us and future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51125	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51126	I spoke several times in the Assembly about the greatest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia. It's evasive and internally displaced faces. This time I will talk about thousands of refugee families whose apartments were built by means of international organisations in the most part and the smaller part of the funds of the Serbian government. Unfortunately, most of these apartments in over a hundred refugee settlements were built in an unquality way. Badly done foundations, hydro insulation, thermal insulation, leading to the shooting of walls, leaking of roofs, the appearance of moisture, etc. The key question of the several thousand refugee families is that they finally become the owners of these apartments. The 2010 Refugee Law allowed the right to buy these housing units. In most cases, however, the issue has not been resolved yet, as local self-government, in co-operation with the municipal branches of the tax administration, determines very high initial purchase prices. We have, for example, the Požega case, where we have 68 refugee families. This is where my colleague Despotovic, the MP for the solution to the problem, also addressed me. The initial price per square meter for buying these apartments is around 550 euros, while in the centre of Požega, newly built apartments, which have been built very high quality, the starting price is 450 euros. This is one discrimination, and given that these apartments are built on underground waters. So we're trying to see co-operation with local self-governments in dozens of municipalities and cities and in collaboration with the Commissioner to bring these prices down maximum. My personal opinion is that these apartments should be given to refugee families for free or with symbolic compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51127	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51128	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to point out my amendment to the importance of economic indicators growing to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Modern company business requires constant adaptation to emerging macro-level market structures. The most commonly applied is a two-fold strategy, on the one hand, cost reduction, and on the other, growth through diversification. Serbia has transformed in six years from an economy characterised by a stagnation of growth and a high unemployment rate in a growing low-inflation economy, a declining public debt and recovery of the labour market. The budget has been in surplus for the third year in a row, and in 2018 we continue in the same trend. Public debt fell to 54.1% of GDP, and credit rating was also improved. These are all economic indicators that Serbia, led by the SNS, is on the right track, and success hurts those who have had the opportunity to show what they know and know and have shown only theft and affairs. Since 2012, we have something to be proud of and rightly point out. Serbian citizens know they recognize that they now live and continuously as their standard of living increases. Of course, it's not easy, because we didn't start building the house from the ground up, but from the basement. The European Commission believes Serbia recorded the fastest economic growth in 2018 in the last 10 years. It also forecasts a 3.5% increase in GDP in 2019. Experts from the Economic Commission expect the end of public administration reform, which, with foreign investment growing and constantly arriving, leads to the rise of citizens' standards and domestic demand in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51129	Thank you. The People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Maja Machužić, a Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51130	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would like to address all the efforts to propose such a law, which is another one in a series of activities to create a legal framework for Serbia's digitalisation process, a process which, apart from economic growth and education, has been set up as one of three pillars of Serbia's development and this government, headed by Ana Brnabic, as well as the previous one, headed by Aleksanda Vucic. This law makes it more effective to combine different databases for the same user groups in the field of social security, which will, among other things, improve the work of social institutions, but also make a major step in the process of digitising and creating a transparent and modern administration, which is crucial for sustainable economic development. Although at the beginning of the digitalization of the electronic administration there was great resistance and mistrust, we are witnessing many benefits today. I was also a user of the electronic administration about a year ago, or Project "Bebo, welcome to the world" and, despite the criticisms we hear these days in the Assembly and abuses of socially sensitive categories such as births for their cheap political points, I claim from my own experience that the system works perfectly on the joy of a number of parents who are bureaucratic about the application of babies and the achievement of social rights, and today these rights are still being achieved by a single click in the maternity ward. What I have to mention, and somehow it may be neglected, is that this law will regulate the way data is exchanged in terms of payment of contributions to compulsory social security, established between the Central Register and the Tax Administration, which will fully implement the establishment of a uniform collection of contributions and taxes and deductions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51131	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51132	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed amendment further defines the concepts of Article 2 of the proposed law and refers to the development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on the rights of displaced persons. Displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, like all Serbs and other non-Albanians, face huge problems that alone can be difficult to realise in the consolidation of current opportunities which, above all, are seen in poor security conditions, the failure of judicial authorities and other temporary institutions. The largest number of outstanding legal cases relate to the property, i.e. the return of property and damages and other property issues, such as illegal possession of property, fraud and alienation of property, illegal expropriation and privatisation issues. In this regard, it should be noted that 40,000 claims have been filed for the return of property and about 20,000 claims for damages to property destroyed and damaged in front of courts in Kosovo and Metohija, which are unfortunately not being dealt with in a plan. Starting with such a functioning situation, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija independently and in co-operation with the EU separates significant financial resources for free legal aid, as well as various projects in this regard, as we witness daily arrest and conduct mounted criminal proceedings for alleged serious crimes committed during armed conflicts on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. By creating material assumptions, proposed by the budget for this and other purposes, with almost permanent presence of representatives of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, it is a good basis and a great incentive for the Serbian people to manage to overcome the great challenges and temptations and achieve their essential goals, and these are at present times creating safety conditions for life, protection of human and property rights, as well as protection of vital state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51133	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51134	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected ministers with associates, recently one of the ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia visited Kikinda and pointed out that Kikinda is the best city administration to implement the Electronic Platform of the Law on Administrative Procedure, a law we passed some year ago. This electronic platform serves to exchange data between the authorities of the state administration, i.e. that citizens do not have to go from counter to counter to collect certain papers in order to complete their work. It was also pointed out that Kikinda was a pioneer in the rationalisation of public administration, and this was done by Kikinda before the state measures that regulated the area, which, of course, led to fiscal consolidation and to the inflow of investments. Because we are also looking forward to the adoption of this law on the agenda today, which is the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which will again contribute to the exchange of electronic data and where information on all insurance companies and insurance companies will be available and will be updated on a daily basis, which will certainly contribute to making the state or public administration even more modern in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51135	Thank you. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, esteemed ministers with associates, the reasons for the adoption of the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance are contained in the need to organise a more efficient functioning of the social security system, establish and maintain a central database of users and insurance companies, with the ultimate objective of effective control of the collection of contributions for compulsory social security. Social security is a form of social policy and social protection guaranteeing to employees and members of their families material security and health care. And did the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have these guarantees by 2012? Of course not. The robbery privatisation project, carried out in the years of the previous regime's authorities, left more than 400,000 of them literally on the street, without being properly paid back for social security contributions for years. Thanks to the responsible policy led by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia will never return to the time of unemployment and carelessness of their citizens. Evidence of this has been achieved from 2012 to today, but also Serbia's 2019 budget, which is designed to pay both pensions and living standards for citizens and to improve their daily lives in Serbia. With investments of 220 billion and continued foreign direct investment growth, it is expected to continue to reduce unemployment. All this together directly encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, will improve the work of local self-government and, most importantly, will provide security for employees, their families and all citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51137	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Radmilo Kostic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51138	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 2. The bill adds Article 2 which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving business." Social security is a form of social security that provides insurance, i.e. members of their families with social protection in case of illness, disability, age, accidents at work and unemployment. Many citizens of Pirota have achieved their social security rights with the help and respect of the rules that have been passed in the Serbian Progressive Party's mandate. The purpose of social insurance as part of a country's social policy which has its users in Pirote is to provide insurance to persons in the event of an insurance risk such as age, illness, motherhood, labour injuries and unemployment, in part or in full compensation for the loss of income. The definition of certain terms in the bill creates a way of clearer interpretation of the legal rules, which allows for a positive climate. Such a climate is also necessary for all municipalities and cities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and we can expect only positive shifts from such a bill. Knowing that the insurance company acquires certain social security rights, when a case is brought about, or when the security risk is realised, it is a kind of legal certainty that Serbia provides to all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51139	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go, Dr. Krivokopic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51140	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted Amendment Two to Article 2 of this Act, which adds Article 2. At the very beginning, I would say that the functioning of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance provides comprehensive records, with all data on citizens, related to mandatory social security. What exactly does that mean? So if there's any change in any of the records that's part of the single base, they'll be automatically updated in the register, which certainly shortens the time to do business within the Central Register. The new Central Register Act in front of MPs is to define everything that has been done in the field of digitalization of registers in recent years. This law and everyone else we bring about electronic records and registers is certainly a promise to the citizens of Serbia that every day they will be further away from that administration characterized by long lines, unnecessary papers and unreal costs. Without a doubt, the creation of such a comprehensive record will provide enormous progress in the efficiency of the work of the administration and its services. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution ministry know that there is significant potential and that with better discipline and organisation of work, as well as modernising the way work is done, labour costs are reduced, and labour flexibility and the state's impact are increasing, which is all for the benefit of citizens. It is necessary to adopt this Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance as soon as possible, in order to start applying and working in the Central Register of Population, which would mean that records from five institutions, the Ministry of State Administration, and local self-government, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, the Republic Office and the local tax administration are placed in a single register. I must point out that all this is a huge job and a special challenge in software terms, but we are not afraid of work and challenges, so it will certainly be the best possible and all in the interest of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51141	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51142	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, before I say a word about the amendment, I would like to speak to Minister Antic. Mr. Antiću, I come from the Smederevska Palanka municipality, perhaps this should have been said during the debate, but I expect help from you, and that is why I am speaking to you now. We in Smederjevska Palanca and three other cities in Serbia have so-called ‘Third tariff’. These are places that don't have heat and that's how the citizens get warm. On the third tariff, you know that there are double-tariff numbers, on the third tariff there is a special number for both of us and for each other, on the same name we pay two television subscriptions. I don't dispute that she's been increased, but it's completely incomprehensible that I've spoken several times, even to some vice-presidents of the government, that they didn't understand me and that the citizens are paying. I don't mind paying for it, but it's a problem for citizens who have other packages now television, the Internet, and they're paying for this. As for this law we have given amendments, it was certainly necessary to pass these laws, to arrange this area to have full records of employees, of paid social security contributions, in order for everyone to have insight into it, in order for inspections to have insight into what is being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51143	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51144	First of all, I would like to thank the MP from the Smederjevska Palanka for pointing to this situation and the circumstances which are obviously a problem for a number of Smederjevska Palanka citizens if these data are presented by you, and I have no doubt absolutely correct, they and I do not act logically and as such being reassessed. I hope by the end of the debate in parliament, concerning this set of budget laws, that I will be able to inform you about the position of both the ministries and the EDB of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51145	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Vera Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51146	The Honored Chairman, Ministers with Associates, the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Insurance has been proposed for a reason - the need to organise an effective form for the operation of central database management, the pooling of different databases for the same groups of users in the field of social security, the comprehensive management of the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons with public funds, the creation of a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records on Republika Srpska, for the sake of more effective and faster exercise of citizens' rights, thus contributing to the development of e-Government, the provision of more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, more efficient functioning of the social security system. That paper on how to submit a single application is brought into line by the Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance with the Labour Act. It is now clearly stated that a single application is submitted at the latest before the employee and other working person enters the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51147	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51148	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the health care of the Republic of Serbia, the health system, health insurance, as well as providing health care to citizens of the Republic of Serbia are an integral part and compulsory social security. New health-related projects, planned in the 2019 budget, said counterpart Pavlovic. This includes supporting the activities of the association in the field of prevention and control of HIV infection. It should also point out that the amounts for existing projects have been increased, and this is the continuation of the construction of a public blood bank of umbilicals and the reconstruction of a sterile block of 100 million dinars, so far financed by 15 million dinars. Virusological surveillance of infectious diseases "Indulgence Torlak" of 35 million 400,000 dinars, in 2018 was planned with five million, and increased by another five million dinars over the year. The information of the health system in the single information system, planned for 700 million dinars, was financed in 2018 in the amount of 600 million dinars. Construction and equipment of state-owned health institutions, founded by the Republic of Serbia, was planned at three billion dinars, amounting to two billion 551 million dinars in 2018. The project includes the procurement of medical equipment and other equipment, as well as the provision of adequate space through investment and investment maintenance of health institutions. Also, construction and equipment of local health institutions of 30 million dinars, which includes the purchase of medical and other equipment, as well as the provision of adequate space through investment and investment maintenance of health institutions in underdeveloped municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51149	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51150	Ladies and gentlemen, the laws that successfully modernise Serbia and the development budget, which envisions an increase in wages and significant new investment in infrastructure, are recognised in our society, of course, as a result of good economic policy. It is important to understand, however, why this policy is good and successful. There are significant parallels between what is happening in Serbia in its modern history, at this time, between what happened and what happened at the time when Franklin Roosevelt for the first time defined the legalitys that proved to be true, the legality based on the truth that a good economic programme is only successful when it is followed by excellent policy, that there are no best economic measures that will result if they are not followed by reasonable policy. And this proved precisely on the case of the United States just how precisely it proved that the unreasonable policy of its predecessors threatened to destroy the country thoroughly for all time. The question arises – what is a reasonable policy without which even the best economic measures cannot show success? The answer is – it is the policy that in times of crisis is able to bring together all the factors of society, to bring together all the actors and to articulate them in the common direction. So there is nothing more difficult and nothing more destructive for one system than when different actors fight a battle for their own individual interests. Then the damage, even economically, is greater than the worst, most harmful economic programme. But when energy is added in this way, when wills are added together and consensus is reached, then they are possible, then the real and greatest works and the greatest economic successes are real. Compare Serbia's citizens the situation from this story with Serbia before Alexander Vukic, Serbia today, and it will be quite clear that the strong consensus, which is being looked at and supported, is good policy from about 60% of the elections to the elections leading to a clear conclusion why Serbia today is as good as it was before Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51151	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51152	Thank you, Chairman. It is an opportunity for me to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making great efforts in the field of digitisation, in particular public administration reforms. The goal is to get Serbia a better, more transparent and efficient public administration, and the means to achieve this is a modern and accessible electronic administration. One of the government's first moves in the field was to form an IT and eGovernment office, as a government service in the field of information technologies and electronic administrations that has the power to implement serious projects that pervade different state institutions. The modern electronic administration, which is key to faster and more efficient public administration work, reduces costs, increases the transparency of the state's work and reduces the possibility of corruption, and makes it easier for citizens and businesses to work towards the state. The creation of a modern and well-equipped Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is another step on the road. The installation of equipment and data of the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance at the State Data Centre was carried out at the end of September of this year. The Data Centre houses a reserve CROSO database, with about five million data from insured persons and insurance companies of the Republic of Serbia. The State Data Centre also includes equipment from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government with 30 million data from births, marriages and deaths, and a book of citizenship will be found by the end of the year, in co-operation with the MUP. Also, preparations have been started to build a secondary state data centre for data management and data storage in Kragujevac, which will contribute to the smooth and reliable operation of electronic administration services, the safe storage of data from the register, and the development of future services. Since I don't have time, I'd be done with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51153	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51154	Thank you. As for this member and these provisions of the law, Mr. Minister, we cannot say that these principles are not suitable for mandatory social security. But the whole law has some technical character, no essentials. This previous member we discussed defined terms. We insist, we Serbian radicals, on another matter. Since we are not able to talk about the amendments to the budget, then give us concrete answers regarding the social situation of our citizens, because if said and said, and yes, and just now some colleagues from the Progressive Party have talked about it as if we don't know it and doesn't write here what all mandatory social security contains. The question arises how many people in Serbia do not have it today? Why don't they get paid by employers? How many criminal provisions have produced fruit? What do those mothers who work with a private employer or future mothers who get fired on the knowledge of the employer expect them to have a baby? How do others treat them, and what is the situation only in public enterprises, where people are fired after many years just because they are not members of ruling parties? We have a paradox, Mr. Mali, here, I have to remind the public that Rasim Ljajic, a few years ago, as minister, opened a factory in Novi Pazar that has been working for more than 10 years. Do you know about the case? It's just that, apparently, taxes and contributions weren't paid, not to do that, but to say that to himself, a jargon, a combination, and that same factory that she was doing sold to him, a famous Italian buyer. As he does, he should also leave and be removed as soon as possible from the post of vice president and minister in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51155	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51156	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106 has been injured. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker talked a little bit about the agenda, about her amendment, and then she came out of the topic. Yesterday you saw what was at one point the atmosphere here in the Assembly, almost intolerable for work, after the break the order was established, everyone was talking about the agenda, almost everyone this morning, so I ask you to make sure that the MPs are still talking about the amendments in the future. If they don't know how to explain their amendment, then I don't even know how they think anyone's voting for those amendments at all. The explanation of the amendments has been turned into an insult to individual ministers, to make false statements, and it is pointless to respond to these inventions. It is not only an insult to the minister, it is not only an insult to the Assembly as an institution, but also an insult to the state of Serbia and to all its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51157	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is the Verse of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51158	In accordance with Article 27. It's kind of unacceptable to listen to the remarks we just heard. People's MPs need to know that this is the National Assembly, that it's being spoken here, that opinions and arguments are being exchanged here. Does each of us like what we will hear from a people's messenger? Of course not. Do we just want to say what someone would like? Of course not. We speak what are facts and what is true. We discuss the amendment the best way we know. Serbia's citizens will say, one day, whether we did it well or not. I cannot hide some facts from the work of one of the members of the government only after the dry application of the Rules of Procedure. If we just strictly applied the Rules of Procedure, as it says here, no one would be able to say anything. We do not know what is controversial about this law, which speaks of mandatory social security, that Natasa Jovanovic says that the company that Rasim Ljajic sold to a famous buyer at the time that he opened up in Novi Pazar had 190 employees, and when he sold it, his friends reduced it to 50 employees. It's a serious problem for those 140 people who lost their jobs. Em, they're out of a job, and there's no contribution, no social security, so, absolutely in line with this bill and this amendment, just picturesquely explained. It bothers someone to mention Rasim Ljajic, so you better get away in time from Rasim, you'll hear a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51159	Thank you. I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, as I did not absolutely mention my colleague Jovanovic. I also felt that a colleague, also Jovanovic, had the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51160	Here we go again. This time about the amendment. It's article 3, it's about, it's about principles and maybe someone, possibly the minister or the officers who prepared this, it seems illogical that we suggested that this member be deleted. With our amendments, we want to draw attention not only to this bill, but generally to the functioning of the government, to the behaviour of the government members, the Prime Minister, the Vice-President, ministers, etc. Our position, our Serbian radicals, is that you do not respect the principles of your work, that you do not respect the principles and principles of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then it is absolutely pointless to mention in this law principles that otherwise did not even have to stand in this bill, because these are the principles that are understood. You know, not everything has to be written in the bill. If it were written like that, then the law would have 3,000 members. So these are general principles, and you ministers don't act in principle, you don't respect the principles, we ask you for days. Here we are now asking Minister Antic and Malo – were you in the government of the Republic of Serbia, you had several meetings, media say, did you discuss Rasim Ljajic? You know, if you hear all the things that you've had the chance to hear just the two of you here, what we have to say and what we've said about Rasim Ljajic, it's impossible that you in the government didn't deal with it. Did you wonder if he could be your fellow man who works there without proper training at a school, a man who threatens and frames murder to the leader of the largest opposition party in parliament, Vojislav Seselj, a man who seriously questions a drug clan in Novi Pazar? Please say, if you haven't discussed it, say, "We don't care, it suits us." If it doesn't suit you, tell the government, tell it here, first of all, to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51161	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately thousands of Azotara Panchevo workers and about three thousand members of their families will not be able to benefit from this law before parliament today. As you know, the former DOS privatized Azotar to Panchewska and sold it for $13 million and $100,000 in 2006. In the warehouses of the finished goods in Azotara there were nine million goods at that time. In order for the new plant to only be released into operation, Karbamid II was sold, disarmed and sold abroad, exported and sold for 32m euros, and the accounting value of Karbamid 2 was 45m euros. The wheat trade, the Victoria Group, from DS leaders should know, and that happened all the way through DOS, until 2012 and 2011, Azotara was pushed to ruin. As you know, in 2009, the state took over Azotara, broke the privatisation contract, and took over the action fund to manage the Panchean Azotara. Victoria's wheat trade caused damage to the Azotari group worth about 15m euros. Selling and gifting to criminals, not peasants, artificial manure has damaged the state for about 12 million dinars... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51163	Thank you. (Petar Jojic: If I may just say – what is the status of Azotare? Is there any possibility that Azotara can be revived and that Serbia has one factory, the only one to produce artificial fertilizer? ) Thank you, colleague Jojic. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51164	Mr. Minister, whenever we talk about reducing the unemployment rate, it is extremely important that we also talk about the factors leading to the reduction of that rate. It certainly is the opening of new jobs, but other factors also affecting the reduction of this rate are the eviction of our citizens and the negative natural growth. In the last year, 47,000 new jobs have been opened, but between 50,000 and 70,000 of our citizens have permanently moved out of Serbia, so it is clear which factor has had more impact on reducing the unemployment rate. If this eviction trend continues, the unemployment rate will certainly fall below 10% and everyone will think it is a major success of this government, but Serbia will then enter a serious crisis when we do not have enough labour to continue economic growth. I also wanted to ask you a question since the RZS says that we have 47,000 new jobs, do those jobs go to those jobs that are not actually open, and whose opening is announced on TV to increase ratings? National Assembly Vice-President Vladimir Marinkovic of the party Rasim Ljajic said at Pink in October that he was in the premises of the former factory "7. July" in Kursumli opened the plant of an Israeli company that employs 150 people. Later on, it turns out that this company has a lock, and no one is employed, and I'm wondering if you're working with your coalition partners, and if they know how many jobs are really open and how many are not? This is the least of the problems, in a series of lies that we had the opportunity to hear from the fact that Vojislav Seselj is a convicted war criminal, until Rasim Ljajic is an honest man, although he is a man who is at the head of the drug clan and who these days prepares the assassination of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51165	Thank you. Comrade Belačić, I promise you we will invite you to the factory opening in about two to three weeks. I'm setting a break now for 15.05 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51166	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51167	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment we submitted to Article 3. The draft law on the central register of mandatory social security, we wanted to specify this legal standard. However, you had no ear, and you refused this amendment of ours. One of the objections to the portal of the Central Register is the inability to order health books and although all contributions are paid to employees, and employees are also reported neatly, they cannot get a health book until they go to the local RFZO. So there's no option on the portal itself to order a health book, it's also true that those who were already in the system when they lost health books can't order over this portal either. During the period when the Minister of Interior and Foreign Trade was Rasim Ljajic and then he was also Deputy Prime Minister, the goal and these governments is to fight the grey economy and I would ask if one of the measures implemented in the fight against the gray economy and crime in this area and increase the collection of contributions, the introduction into legal flows, i.e. the collection of taxes and contributions from Rasim's trade in narcotics?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51168	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51169	Dear MPs, dear Mrs. Nikolic, I just wanted to tell you about the Central Register. The Ministry of Labour and Employment is working, as you know on the project of social cards, and soon I should think about the next National Assembly meeting, that it may be the law and we will be very happy to discuss it. He needs to circle around and make a whole where, like, I'm even at some press conferences where I represented this project I said that basically our wish is that we free our citizens from administrations and that they have to apply for something. Even in cases where a social map is resuscitated, it won't even be necessary to apply itself, but one who acquires conditions for something by automation will get it from social assistance to some things such as health books, some identification cards for, say, combatants, people with disabilities, etc. So, the whole system should, the first phase should be completed next year in May, the second phase by the end of the year next and that third phase when it is due to come to life is 2020. I believe that when we have this whole system, when everything is digitized, and everything in one system that our citizens will have a full service from the state, or will no longer have to have any administration, any request for anything, but the state by automation to give it to them. It's a system we're working on, it's a government project, and I believe you'll be happy with it when we represent ourselves in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51170	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51171	Dear fellow MPs, chairman, respected citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this debate in particular 62 points of the agenda that are merged into one item of the agenda, which is 62 times less time for the opposition to talk about the proposed laws. And when you add to that and what you are doing right now, which is the 385 amendments that you as the ruling majority have proposed on the proposals of your government's laws, which means either those laws are bad, so you have 400 amendments, or you won't eventually vote for your own amendments, which says that you proposed them just to spend time with the opposition and that we can't talk about topics that are on the agenda, especially the draft budget bill for next year. Of course, you are not ready to answer any questions. You did not answer the question whether you were behind your colleague, Zvonimir Djokic, that all of us from the opposition in Serbia should eat the dark... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51172	That is not true, colleague Obradovic, and I ask you to tell the truth. That's not true. I know perfectly well. Don't let me read the stenogram. (Bosko Obradovic: Let's read a stenogram? Well, you got it. But at some other time, not right now. Request a word again and I draw your attention not to accuse fellow Members of what they did not say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51173	Mr. Chairman, my colleague Dragan Vesovic asked the public ministers here this morning who are present, and all of you personally and all of your colleagues to read the stenographic notes, to see what Mr. Zvonimir Djokić said and see if you will apologize and fence... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51174	I'm not going to apologize, I'm not going to build myself up, because there's no need for that. counterpart Djokic said the following -- if the opposition in Kosovo were the same as it is here, they would be eaten by the dark and I am happy to live in Serbia where the opposition has such rights. I don't need a stenogram. I remember exactly what anybody said. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51175	I also remember perfectly what anyone said, and let the citizens of Serbia assess what they said, which are the rights of opposition in this National Assembly we hear even now as they scream here on the opposite side and I am not allowed to speak. Of course, the same question you will not answer, when will excise duties and VAT be reduced on fuel in Serbia? When will you report on the persecution of Serbs in Montenegro and on the ban of Professor Dejan Mirovic to enter Montenegro where he was born and to visit his family by the Montenegrin mafia regime? For four days and years, keep your mouth shut about everything the regime in Montenegro does and you won't make a statement. You're not going to plead to anyone who hires Tony Blair to help Alexander Vukic and your government and who pays Tony Blair, whether he's paid out of the budget or not. You're not going to make a statement about what you've been told here publicly that public debt has been growing since you've been in power, that it's raised $10 billion. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51176	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. My colleague Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Rule 107 has been broken. So, first of all, colleague Obradovic invented, as you yourself said, a threat that did not stand. Number two, I'm pleased that he took off the yellow vest, and I'm glad that the services that wear such vests are, therefore, discriminated in a certain way. He also said another lie, talking about how we proposed some pointless amendments. The opposition has proposed 1,640 amendments, alleged by the ruling party 352. The viewers are working, the time for discussion in detail, the opposition to 74 MPs has 241 minutes. The ruling SNS party, the most numerous, with 104 MPs has 146. His grades stand, this is a violation of the National Assembly's dignity, as the opposition per MP has two and a half times more time than the largest political party has, and this is the SNS. I believe that he has the need to invent, I believe that he has the need to express various attitudes, I believe that he has the need to resent Montenegro, although his most important sponsor from Montenegro, I believe that he is for the EU, I believe that he is against the EU, I believe that he is for Gilas, I believe that he is against Gilas, I see that there is something yellow, I see there that something is shining, it must be these Gilas Jarans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51178	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day, counterpart Risticevic? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51179	Please, the chairman, Article 103, abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to prevent the previous speaker, because he will probably try to obstruct this session in the next debate, because he has received such tasks from his boss. He received assignments from Dragan Gilas, who is particularly nervous these days, and most today, because he was prevented from buying two TVs, along with his friend Šolak, "First" and "O2". These days, and citizens need to know, they intend to buy the TV "O2" and "First", that was their plan, and now that it's gone, they're particularly nervous and they don't know what's going to make them sick. That's why we had a chance to listen to the previous speaker, as their mercenary, to wild here, to lie, to invent, because they can't regret this loss right now. You know how, they're used to only getting rich, just having their pockets full and now they're not interested in anything. When they lost that business combination, they don't know how to react, and now they're all to blame. They are no longer interested in the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, they are no longer interested in the state, nothing more, just their pocket, just so they can make money, continue to be rich, as they did in the years when Dragan Gilas exercised power. So I ask you to stop the attempts of the previous speaker, because by the end of the day we are likely to have attempts to obstruct this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51180	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without wanting to engage in controversy with the MPs, is doing you first and foremost in this high house, but also in public, there are a few things that need to be said. First of all, the price of fuel in Serbia has dropped since 1 November. The price of unleaded motor gasoline has dropped by 7.6 dinars today, while the price of the euro diesel has dropped by six dinars and, as we have announced, this trend continues and we expect already in the coming days, more precisely during the following week, the further drop in fuel prices resulting, first of all, two things: the decline in prices of crude oil on the world market and the fall in the cost of transport costs resulting from the fact that transport to the Danube, due to the increased water supply in the Danube, continues to take place again in normal frameworks. These reasons that have now led to the drop in prices were the only and only reasons why in the period since the end of September and early October led to the rise in fuel prices in Serbia and they absolutely confirm what we are saying – that at one point, I repeat, in early October, there was a rise solely due to the rise in the price of crude oil on the world market, the growth of dollars and difficult logistics conditions and the collection of transport costs. So, once again, because of Serbian citizens, as of November 1st, the price of fuel in Serbia is in constant decline, unleaded gasoline is lower by 7.6 dinars, the euro diesel is lower by 6 dinars, we expect a continuation of fuel prices at gas stations next week. (President: Thank you, Minister. And one more moment, I apologize, please. At the moment the price was in the peak, it was lower than the 2011 price, so politicizing the issue is not correct. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51182	You have no right to a replica, colleague Obradovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) It could not have been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the minister got, replied. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51183	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with my associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. Each and every one of these authorities wants to conceal the fact that they bear full responsibility when it comes to the matter that is subject to this law. Today we are in a position where mandatory social security does not provide us with almost no guarantee and no protection. I belong to the pension population, and speaking to my friends, I know it's the most endangered category in Serbia today. I don't want to talk about pensions, because we all know what they are, but I want to point out that there is a huge proportion between the amount of pensions and the cost of social services. The fact that there is a central register of compulsory social security and that some things are being arranged in a better way than they used to mean nothing to an ordinary man. The older population has a natural need for greater social protection, but this law and this amount of pensions do not allow them to do so. So I urge this government to find a way to allocate additional funds for social security. There is plenty of room in the budget where certain items can be cut and some of them are certainly reduced by a large number of government agencies. I ask the question of the Minister of Justice to answer me – did the prosecutor in Novi Pazar launch a criminal case against Sulejman Ugljanin, who said Serbia is a fascist state, which is a criminal offence for which the 15-year sentence has been prescribed, and Ugljanin is in coalition with Rasim Ljajic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51184	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51185	Article 3 speaks of the principles of this law, and there are procedural laws that have detailed the principles in procedures, so this was not necessary. This law is insane. It's loaded. Here, in Article 11 of this Bill, 43 data are required, Article 26 requires 92, which means that a total of 135 data are required from the applicant. Will everyone be able to do it in a timely manner and in a timely manner? If not, large sentences ranging from 40 to 50 times have been threatened. Will this law have a positive impact on the pension increase? He won't. Is it developmental? It's not. Did everyone perform their duties, of course, I mean the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, longtime members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will now see this on a specific case. In 2001 there was a textile company “Opcija doo” in Novi Pazar. She was the leader of small business until 2007, and then Mr. LJajic used his influence at the time, as minister of labour, martial arts and social affairs, and through inspections that were under the ministry, put additional pressure on the company, died of its business, its potential, and then sold to a known buyer, the Italian firm is a buyer, so that out of 190 employees would come down to 50, and today the company does not work at all. Now, that's what the ministers who are members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have to take care of, not just today, as it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51186	Thanks, buddy. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vesovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, the first time we're talking about these extremely important laws that we have four ministers in this high house. I've been sitting around the whole time, I've been watching, this is the first time that there's been a bit of an increase in the number of ministers, regardless of what's most important in the law, which would be logical to expect both the prime minister and the minority to be the entire government. My amendment is in line with all the amendments that have been submitted so far regarding technical amendments, which are related to the regularity of the Serbian language, and of course it has been rejected. I can understand, and I can't understand. But one other thing I can't figure out is that there's a nonstop question here about whether there's a desire here from the opposition to obstruction. So there is no desire for obstruction, the only desire of the opposition was to talk about what you yourself said was most important, about the Republic of Serbia's budget. Unfortunately, this is how we're prevented from participating, because we're not even going to get to that law in amendments, and that's what you'd say... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51188	Ask your colleague Vesovic for his word again. Ask for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51189	I'm not afraid to think it was in the sense of deliberate obstruction, I'm going back to Branimir Joni Stulic, who said that the essence of fraud was unrecognizable. It was also seen in the speech of Honorable Mr. Minister Antić, whom I highly appreciate, who explained fuel prices, and I would say: “Janko defends Vladislav dead, which defends him when he does not defend him. ” We know the price of oil has dropped. We're talking about excise duties. Put them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51190	Thank you. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51191	It's all the time when this law is at stake, about the Central Register, but I think we're actually wasting our time, because the central register in Serbia that's in effect is a register of SNS members. So, if you're a member of the SNS, you don't have to have anything else, from documents or diplomas or PhDs, etc., and now we see that the media space is completely centralized, that the owner of Copernicus, who is otherwise the born brother of the SNS representative from Nis, is now also bought the First Television and O2, and that practically Pink gets competition. Now no national frequency television will be free to vote for the opposition, for the vote of all those citizens who do not want to be led by Aleksandar Vukic. I congratulate you on that, and so don't blame yourself on...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51192	Ask for a word again. Ask for the word of your colleague again. A five-minute break until the system stabilizes. Due to technical problems, I'm setting a 15-minute break. So we keep working at 3:00 and 45 minutes. [[after breaks]] We can keep working. A colleague, Marija Janjušević, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51194	In these 50 seconds, I really, since we had an electric power problem, I can only tell you that's what happens when Nikola Petrovic sells electricity to those pipes he puts the rivers that belong to the entire people. So he put the whole river in a pipe. The mini power plants are evil that we have to prevent and I can't tell you anything else about when this sort of thing happens. Prevent much greater disasters, prevent the construction of a mini power plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51195	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51196	In the hope that the technique is all right and that I will have no basis to accuse you of suffering fear, I will say a few sentences about this bill. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security is one of those technical laws that fills the total fund of the proposed laws to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am even more convinced that this area could be regulated by sublegal acts, so that the law in this form was not necessary, but the government is counting this mini law of 50 members, to be precise 52 members, so as an authorised legislator, it slowly points to one law at a time, and that is the number of laws proposed in its term of office. The law, although foreseen, needs to achieve the following objectives – improving the quality of data, controlling them, improving the control of the collection of social security contributions. All of this if we accept, I wonder if we needed technique and multiplication? I think that there was enough regular analysis and better co-operation between the state authorities at all levels, starting from daily, monthly to long-term. There is, of course, co-operation with other central registers, but the most important thing is everything that happens before and after the data is entered into a single database, and it must not be its own goal and purpose. Otherwise it's all a waste of time again. On the other hand, it increases both the real damage and the cost of all social security users. Survived.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51197	My colleague Boyic, so you taught in High School of Electrical Engineering. You know nothing can happen to you. You learned something there, too. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51198	Thank you. I personally believe that no one is happier in this country than the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is seen in them, because they sit very nonchalantly, cross their legs, listen to what the MPs say, pretend they understand nothing, hear nothing. Everything they could pick up from the people in terms of taxes they picked up, all kinds of taxes, all the places they heard in the world that there was something that could be taxed, they taxed, and all that if they needed to spend it and to return it to the citizens, through some way public services, etc., they forgot it and they didn't feel obliged. I ask you nicely if you feel obliged to return this budget to the citizens of Serbia in the same way that you have taken, by hand or by force? So someone pays the tax they need and what they consider a commitment, and whoever has nothing to pay for it, you brought in the perpetrators and then you took them by force. Now, all that money you've collected so much you spend as you want and I'm asking you how you can do it, and you've never brought here at least a proposal for that final bill for the previous year, and you're looking in such a rude way for a draft budget to be voted for in 2019. I think you're the luckiest people not in this country but in the world. If it's business, someone has to work, make money to make a business, to be a businessman. If it's an expert, he has to learn to be an expert and have a high salary, and no one's asking you for anything. You just need to be ministers and have everything you want in this world.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51199	Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51200	And, one more thing, you will remain senior ministers. When you, next to these... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51201	Time. Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51202	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we see that the 2019 budget envisions a reduction in the fiscal burden from 63% to 62%. If you had an honest intention when you made this decision, you had to reduce at least to 60%. The Serbian Radical Party advocates an increase in wages, but how and how? With this proposal, you increase wages to the heart of the harmful extension of the employment ban. Since 2013 this temporary measure has been in force. How long will this temporary decision of yours take? With such decisions, you continue to conduct the damage management of the state and employees from different sectors are retired, and you prohibit the receiving of new workers to their jobs, to a place that exists by systematicisation and for which they exist in the budget of the salary fund. In this way you do not allow young people to work and stay in their own country. This decision will pass in 2019, and there will be a major problem with the lack of staff in healthcare, inspection services, local self-government and many other public institutions. Why you haven't been able to pass the Payment Class Act in six years? The introduction of payment classes solves at least half of the problem. Such a law defines that, for example, only real experts in these areas can receive European standards and thus solve the problem of brain drains. With your reckless decisions and solutions, various self-called directors, employed by some government agencies, have multiple salaries than ministers in the government, and this is the main source and location of corrupt activities in ministries, including ministers themselves. That's why it hasn't been ten days without us catching you in some kind of financial malfeasance in a corruption that some of the ministers are prone to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51203	Thank you, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51204	I don't want to mention Sulja or Rasim... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51205	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Snezana Paunovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51206	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security in order to further define a member who speaks about principles, i.e. what will be respected when performing the tasks defined by the law we are now discussing, which are, above all, independence, efficiency and economics. These are the principles on which, among other things, President Aleksandar Vukic's work and policies, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS programme, are based. Such a bill fits into the environment in which Serbia is located, where I particularly point out that the proposed solutions contribute to the modernisation and simpler conduct of procedures and transparency. This is the way in which the budget for 2019 was approached, in particular with regard to the increase in funds for health, education and capital investment. I would point out that the priority of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to build infrastructure, because it is the highways, railways, bridges and good municipal infrastructure that are the basis for new investments, for new factories and for new jobs. We from the Ub municipality are witnesses, what benefits the construction of the highway brings, so since May of this year we have the first factory in the highway zone and already many interested potential investors, because as the construction of the highway ends, there are increasingly more interested persons. Everyone will want to invest in a well-infrastructured municipality, with good finances, with good leadership, which leads a good policy and is such a picture in the Ub municipality, is a picture at the level of the entire Republic, and that is what citizens love and confirm from election to election. That's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51207	Thank you. By amendment, MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51208	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's a colleague here specifically referred to poverty reduction, and we know that according to all relevant reports, people with disabilities are the category of population that is largely at risk of poverty, or one of the poorest categories of citizens. With this in mind, you know that there is a budget fund for employment and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities and that fund is, in fact, the most, should be, the most full of the funds that employers, or the business sector pays when they do not employ a person with disabilities. More specifically, according to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, each employer who counts more than 25 employees is obliged to hire one person and then to each of the next 50 other persons. You know that we have large employers, such as NIS, Telenor and many other companies, numbering over several thousand employees. What's problematic about this fund is a few things. First of all, we believe that, me and my colleagues from my parliamentary group, we do not need the burden of hiring people with disabilities to fall on the business sector, but rather to deal with the country's superstate. We also believe that these are additionally burdened employers, but what is a bigger problem is that the initial law on professional rehabilitation understood that the height of these pens, in the amount of three minimum earnings of the Republic of Serbia, is about 70,000 dinars, and now, according to new amendments to the law, is 50% of the average earnings in Serbia, which means that about 20,000 dinars. This reduction has practically made it impossible to employ people with disabilities, since it is cheaper for any employer to pay a monthly penalty for an unemployed person than to hire a person at even the cost of minimum earnings. What's even bigger is, what we see in this year's budget is that there are only one billion and 250 million dinars within this fund. It's almost amazing for us to believe that the revenues in that fund are so small, but of course we can only guess that, since we didn't get budget implementation and that we don't know how much they actually merge on an annual level of money in the name of an unemployed person's pen. We would very much like to get that information, because we have tried and through a request for information of public importance, we have been transferred to the Tax Administration, and to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, we have never received exactly how much money is collected, and since employers say that they would rather give these funds to purchase aids, to improve the lives of people with disabilities, to make public institutions accessible, not to pour into some budget fund for which no one actually knows where these funds are distributed. We know that part of the funds is given to companies for professional rehabilitation and employment and that they employ about a thousand and a few persons, but we also oppose that, given that we are in favour of hiring people with disabilities on the open labour market, and not in these again organisations that operate under very suspicious circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51209	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Markovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51210	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Here we are in Article 3. It's a bill of law. This is where I tabled an amendment in support of the bill, as well as support for the overall economic and political efforts of the Serbian government. All economic indicators are in favour of Serbia today as a country with a stable state of public finances, we have stopped the economic sunflowers and fully recovered the overall economic picture of Serbia. This is best seen on the basis of a decision to increase pensions, as well as an increase in wages in the public sector, and it is most important here to point out that the increase is based on real income. So, real income without additional debt, no extra burdens, and it's really a huge success. No matter what these Gilas mercenaries say, because they are, as we said these days, particularly nervous because their plan to buy two televisions failed. So, to buy an O2, that's ex-B92, so the citizens know, and buy the First Television. Citizens need to know that just the two of them, Gilas and Solak, had a plan to buy those two TVs, and now that their plan has failed, now they're desperate, they don't know what they're going to do with themselves, simply. They're used to getting rich, having a full monopoly, that only they make money, that only they fill their pockets, and now that their plan has failed, they don't know what they're going to do. Nothing matters to them anymore, neither Kosovo nor Metohija, it is no longer a topic, nor the state of the Serbian people, nor the state, nothing matters to them. All that matters is their pockets. That nervousness of theirs, which is most dangerous, Mr. Chairman, I want to warn everyone now and publicly say that their anxiety has caused today by beating up a SNS activist in Luciani. (Maya Vidinovic: Are you aware of what you just said? ) A candidate on the list "Alexander Vukic – Because we love Luciane", Nada Jovanovic, 64, was beaten today in Luciani only because of hatred. The guy who beat her said he was going to kill all the "wolves" and that "j... mother of Vukiću’. I beg you, do not create an atmosphere of fear, do not create an atmosphere of violence in Serbia, it cannot produce anything good. Please stop that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51211	Thank you. (Vladimir Djuric: I am reporting by amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51212	Thank you, Chairman, I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The amendment of the previous speaker focused on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia in the context of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, MP LJupka Mihajlovska asked a very important question, which is a matter of a billion and 250 million allocated to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs to spend on the incentive to hire people with disabilities. Unfortunately, we did not get an answer, so I would repeat the issue of contributing to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which is proposed by the amendment to tell us what the full fund is from? Have all the billions and 250 million dinars received exclusively from the penalties paid by employers for not hiring persons with disabilities in accordance with their legal obligation, or is the budget fund being filled from other sources? If the amount of fines charged is worth a billion and 250 million, then the question is, what is the greater amount spent on this budget fund to encourage the employment of people with disabilities? Also, for the sake of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, I would also take advantage of the presence of Minister Antic in the hall to draw attention to the three years in the budget that we are spending funds on JP Resavica. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5.07 billion, in 2018, rewritten, identical amount of 5.07 billion. In 2019, almost identical amount of 5.05 billion, but for one thing, which is the consolidation of the financial and reorganisation of JP "Reavica" as planned for the reorganisation and financial consolidation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, for three years, one plan, one of the same resources, one of the same five billion, we're putting together in the budget for something whose realisation and execution I'd like to ask for information, because the overall development of the Republic of Serbia would make a great contribution if the funds were connected with the budget rather than spent for three years in a row, then we'd be giving these funds to someone else. For example, in financial support to families with children and mothers who receive these unworthy compensations under the new 900 law and some dinars monthly and so forth. I thank you in advance for your answers from the distinguished ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51213	The word has a minister, Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51214	First of all, a public company for the special exploitation of coal "Resavica", as is known to everyone for many years, i.e. from the moment they left "Electroprived Serbia" have support and have subsidies. Four billion and 470 million dinars go to subsidies for missing funds to pay personal income, and around 600 million dinars are in a programme to close those caves that have no perspective and do not have the balance needed to continue production, as this production is so inefficient that it simply has no more conditions. You know that Resavica has about four thousand employees. I wouldn't want to right now, I suppose you all know that it's a moss about undeveloped border municipalities where this mining activity is almost the only business activity, so we're talking about Despotovac, Zaječar, Žagutica, Raška, Sjenica, these are all marginal municipalities, as I said, and there are these mines almost the only activity and we are therefore maintaining these four thousand jobs and maintaining production in those mines until we resolve the permanent issue through consolidation programmes, or closure programs of each of these caves. Your report is quite clear. These funds are spent each year for this purpose and we are just finishing a specific plan that we are working with the World Bank and we hope that in 2019 they will bring some improvements. But until we can solve these issues essentially, we have to help those four thousand people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51215	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51216	Let's get some things straight first. When it comes to persons with disabilities, the Ministry, as you know, is very committed to the position of persons with disabilities being improved and working on it from day to day. When it comes to the budget fund, so as not to casually Serbia's citizens think it can be spent any way we want, the Budget System Law predicts that we have to make a plan. And it's true, it's delivered to the government how money is spent. In terms of persons with disabilities, 700 million were allocated for employment this year, and 550 million and 50 million more for projects, 50 million more for projects. When it comes to aiding companies that employ disabled persons, they have the right to these subsidies, the Ministry has introduced a rule that companies and companies themselves who hire and who have the right to do so, in the most transparent way of proving how many persons with disabilities, the exact mathematical formula, all the amount we get is to share equally according to how many persons with disabilities are employed. And the last thing, since you're always talking about the financial support of the family with children and talking about these famous 900 dinars, I've been trying here, but I think that Serbian citizens are more and more empty with your story, given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing many of its measures and will do what it does to make our families get bigger and bigger funding. Of course, according to how much we have and how much revenue we have in the budget. As you know, on the one hand, she has the right that maternity benefits when it comes to working relationships and what she's been paying the state. In the earlier period it was divided by 12, now by 18, so that part that you're saying is only 900 dinars, in some period until July 1st was, say, 1,400 dinars, if it's 900 now. But no one talks about the other side, that same maternity care, if it has those 900 dinars, and it has, say, a third child, it's got two years of 10 grand each, and this government has predicted since July 1st that this maternity care is getting 12 grand for the next ten years. So a much bigger amount of each maternity benefit, and that's not the end of it. I told you, however much the opposition struggles against it, that we explain to you how and in whatever way we share our families and that you try to put it in some negative context, I promise you that the government will work on getting the family whenever possible, whenever we do change the law, that this relationship with them will be better and better and that their material position will be better and better. But to be clear, we have clear rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51217	Thank you, Mr. Minister. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51218	I'll be back on the amendment from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. First of all, I'd like to thank the ministers for their answers. I thank Minister Djordjevic for his expressed desire to give the maternity care more and more, but the attitude of mothers and families will be able to hear at their protest on December 15th, and they know whether they are protesting justly or not. As for Minister Antić's response, I thank him, too, but, in some ways, the answer is incomplete, because saying that we will have some improvements in 2019 is not a sign when we stop budgeting five billion for the Resavica financial aid, or when this problem will finally be solved and these five billion budget expenditures will be released for some other needs, and of course we fully respect the need to help those four thousand people who have the situation and which is undoubtedly difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51219	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go, colleague, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51220	And I'd like to thank Minister Djordjevic for answering. Tatjana Macura, a colleague of mine and I were looking forward to your arrival here, of course, but you, I suppose, will agree with me that this law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons does not encourage employment, but encourages the filling of the fund, because that it wants to encourage employment would not give employers the possibility that it would be more cost-effective to pay for the penalty than to hire people with disabilities. The answer we have not received from you or from the finance minister is – how much on the annual level is the payment of money in the budget fund in the name of an unemployed person with disabilities and does the state also invest funds in this fund, since I am sure that neither the state authorities fulfil the obligation under the law nor employ persons with disabilities according to the quota system provided for by this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51221	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51222	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which I would like to place an accent on undeveloped areas, in mountainous and mountainous areas, in areas with difficult living conditions, where and now, as before, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its president, Mrs Ana Brnabic and President Vukic, we all work together and in these areas live better. We now see in the 2019 budget that there are much greater allocations for rural areas, for those women living in the country, for the first time now it is possible to get financial assistance when they are born in the country. One more thing for all of us who live there. It's very important to work on all those things, like infrastructure. Finally, we will now be doing a reconstruction of the railway line that goes from Nis, via Svrljjig, Književec, Zaječar, Negotina, Prahova, i.e. towards Bor. This railroad is very important for all of us, because there are buildings on that track, there are bridges made by a scientist, a man who is very recognizable, Milutin Milanković. I call upon fellow MPs to come to visit the Municipality of Srljig, to visit the beauty of our region, to go all the way to the Old Mountain, to the pearls of the Old Mountain, to see how well the road is done. And it's all done in the previous period, and it's going to keep working now, I said, railroad. Investment in infrastructure, for all of us, is very important. I am sure that the government will continue to work in 2019, to give more funds to south-east Serbia, to build in southeast Serbia, to end Corridor and all that for all of us who remain there to live. Agriculture and the village, that's our chance. The development of the southeast of Serbia is our chance. Once again, I urge all my colleagues to vote in favour of my amendments. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51223	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51224	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance should ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reduction of the costs of the administration and more efficient functioning of the social security system. It also pursues a comprehensive management of the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in public funds users. The central register is an electronically managed database based on high IT standards and provides automation with regard to data inputs, as well as cross-checks, and all in order to improve the quality of data on employees, public users, as well as better budget planning. Thanks to the hard and hard work of our President Alexander Vukic and our Government, monetary consolidation has been achieved in our country. A stable surplus budget over the last few years has made it possible to invest more in our health system as well. I thank the government this time for investing in the reconstruction of the four departments of the Loznica Hospital of Internal, Urban, Neurology and Psychology worth about 420 million dinars. The papers are starting these days. This will create better conditions for staying and treating our patients in these departments, and better conditions for the work of health care professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51225	Thank you. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51226	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, above all this budget that we have been talking about for several days is indeed a bright example and a real example of adequate distribution of funds. I will once again talk about how much concern is primarily devoted to health care and I will talk about which money mass, which financial resources are foreseen, not only for equipment, which is also one pillar of the health system, not only for staff and human development but also for that third pillar of the health system, and these are infrastructure facilities. So, over time, if we look at the budget, we'll see that 2018, or 2107, for the first time for the development of health institutions' infrastructure four billion 651 million 984 thousand are foreseen. The following year, therefore, in 2108 this amount was already significantly higher, six billion and 582 million 489 thousand, and we see that in the projection of the current budget, this budget for 2019, the estimated amount of money is six billion 211 million 939 thousand dinars. Why is that? We really do have a big qualitative step towards infrastructure on the ground. In southern Serbia, we are all witnessing that one of the most modern clinical centres, the Clinical Centre in Nis, are two major health facilities in an announcement, is the facility of the General Hospital in Vranje and the General Hospital facility in Prokuplje and that is something that will make our country's health system significantly better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51227	Thank you, colleague Laketić. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mitchin, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51228	I thank the chairman, gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, Mr Sinisa Mali mentioned "tweet" Dragan Gilas and I did not hate "tweeter" to see what he "tweeted" and "tweeted" about public debt. However, it is very clear that his "tweet" is an ordinary spin. Because the information he took for 31.10.2018, and today we are in the 5th of December 2018, and today the public debt compared to 2016 is lower by as much as a billion and 620 million euros, and at the time he was in power with his friends, you know how the public debt moved? In 2008, it was – 8.7 billion euros, 2009 – 9.8 billion euros, 2010 – 12.1 billion euros, 2011 – 14.7 billion euros and 2012 – 17.7 billion euros. So he and his comrades increased the public debt by 7.9 billion euros, not to mention that bridge that was agreed on by 124m euros, so eventually it was done by 360m euros was spent on the Adi bridge and he found that he "tweeted" something against Minister Mali. To work on a public debt reduction, because it's proof that it's certainly the fact that we bought government bonds worth 10 billion dinars, and that's precisely because of that surplus in the budget I was talking about. Also, the credit rating agency kept Serbia's credit rating score at bb level in stable prospects for improvement. The confirmation of the credit rating by the Republic of Serbia is a reflection of the government's good economic policy and economic growth that has exceeded all expectations. The agency also noted that the net foreign investment deficit will be fully covered in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51229	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51230	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. I have submitted an amendment aimed at pointing to the importance of the central register of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In order to have someone to charge for compulsory social security, as well as pension and disability insurance, we need our economy to be stable, to open new factories, to create new jobs. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state recognized this problem and actively participated in its resolution, with co-operation with local self-government. That we have results in solving this problem that has plagued a large number of our country's citizens shows us the percentage of the unemployed based on official statistics. In 2012, 25.5% of the working population was jobless, today this percentage is significantly lower and is 11.3%. In just four years, about 370,000 new jobs have been opened, and this means that 370,000 families have received stable incomes and are no longer social cases. The state benefits new workers, as the number of social cases decreases, and the number of those of which compulsory social security is charged. So state finances are stable as well. The central register of compulsory social security now has more work to do and collects and compiles the database and performs the control role of whether compulsory social security is paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51231	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51232	The amendment of the respected predecessor states that the social security user register law is being made with a special reference to the strengthening of economic resources. I would suggest some other things to strengthen economic resources, that's exactly what the Fiscal Council advised the government to implement in the Budget Law so that it would be encouraged by the economy. Unfortunately, this Budget Law didn't do it enough. It is primarily required to increase public expenditures, to abolish employment bans, to increase profits in the public sector, it has only been done partially, but it is primarily required to increase capital expenditure, and above all to protect the environment. These would be infrastructure projects that would boost the economy and strengthen economic development. Unfortunately, in this budget, instead of encouraging this type and increasing capital reports that would benefit businesses, we have a dominant increase in capital expenditure in military-police equipment. So over 25 billion, over two-thirds of the increase in capital expenditure goes to the military and the police. So economic incentives require countermeasures to fund them. You can find the means to finance the incentive measures by saving on the side of the expenditure, so you have, for example, the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Serbia 480 million transfers to other levels of government, without any reason. 2m euros extra for the government's flight service. According to social networks, regular photo sharing by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who flies a commercial flight from Barcelona, our government budgets two million euros for the flight service, despite the demands of the ruling coalition's MPs to pass laws with a special focus on empowering the economy and economic resources. The IT office and the electronics administration are new 2.3 billion without seeing the effects of last year's 2.2 billion dinars. Then, the famous economic classifications, fines and penalty for the solution of courts and damages to the injury or damage done by the state authorities. So the state budgets fines and penalties 14 billion, last year 18 billion and the budget for those funds was spent as early as August of this year, which means it will be breached. Nowhere, absolutely nowhere, has we found an explanation of what kind of punishment and penalty the state pays and whose state is doing it, so it compensates for damages of 14 to 18 billion a year. Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Transport Project of specialized services, software activity - air traffic. Six million dinars for a project whose description is essentially a consulting service in the creation of a strategy, air traffic, harmonisation of domestic regulations with international, co-operation with international air traffic organisations. The criteria and criteria for achieving this project, worth 600 million dinars, are airport infrastructure. In which it is absolutely not stated in the description of what the criterion for the project to be declared successfully completed, but 600 million dinars for this project of airport infrastructure equipment, at the time when our airport "Nikola Tesla", the largest airport, gave concessions under conditions that no one can see, because their public view is practically disabled. We are even told that we will never see the business plan, because it is in the domain of the business secret concessionaries. So, in essence, citizens will never know whether public property, therefore, is a "Nikola Tesla" airport placed in a concession by declaring it to be the best way and business model of the airport's development. Whether it is or not, unfortunately we won't find out, but that's why we have 600 million dinars of budget money allocated to airport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51233	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Here's a colleague of Rancic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51234	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respected guests from the Ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 3 is a continuation of the amendments I have submitted to this bill. The most important principle, the principles in each action are independence, efficiency and economics, which is contained in the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. For example, economics implies the process of registering and transferring data to compulsory social security organisations without delay and with as little budget costs as possible of 16448.551,000, which is also planned for healthcare. For example, to improve the availability of health care for the Roma population of 45 million, the development of a health institution infrastructure of 6,211.939.000. The establishment of a national programme for human organs transplantation in the Republic of Serbia of 80,000,000, as well as for informing the health system into a single information system of 700,000, which we are discussing today. But what's most important to me, it's the enforcement of a security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment and health care, mandatory treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction of 200,000 dinars, which is particularly dear to me, because in my clinical practice I've faced this issue and I think this amount should be doubled, and even increased multiple, because, as things now stand, this... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51235	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51236	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, Article 3. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security defines the basic principles and these are three basic principles on the basis of which the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is working and that is the principle of independence, the principle of efficiency and the principle of economicity. My amendment concerns the protection of particularly vulnerable groups. First of all, I have to say that the principle of efficiency and the principle of economicism and how important it is for all those actions that are led by citizens who belong to the so-called public authorities. especially sensitive social groups. First, I must commend the Central Register of Obligation Social Security because the data from the Central Register is available on the portal of e-Government, and why is this important from the point of view of citizens? Because all of those administrative procedures that are conducted are much faster, they are much more efficient, and the state institutions that run administrative procedures in a fast and efficient way instead of citizens, precisely through electronic exchange and electronic demand for necessary data from the necessary records, come out to meet citizens and thus citizens in a much faster and much more efficient way achieve the rights they seek. I would also like to commend that for the first time in fact it was introduced, through the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, the records of persons who refer to temporary work abroad, and this is based on the Law on the posting of workers to temporary work abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51237	Thank you. The People's MP Tatjana Macura, after the amendment, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51238	I thank the chairman. First, to thank Minister Djordjevic and Minister Sinishi Malo for coming to the meeting today, I apologize, I'm a little cold, so it's harder for me to talk. So, first of all, I should like to thank you on behalf of mothers who have already been watching the Assembly's budget session for three days and who are practically asking Minister Djordjevic and Minister Sinisha Malo to get an answer, how we will find the money in the 2019 budget and how we will come to an amendment to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Unfortunately, according to what we have in the budget passed to the MPs, these funds are not available, which means that all the assurances that we received in the meantime from Minister Djordjevic and Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic are simply not true, let me say so, because we received assurances from them that this controversial law that simply degrades mothers and motherhood in Serbia will change by the end of this year even in some provisions. There is not even such provisions, nor is there a controversial law on the agenda of this congregation session. So my best intention and the best intention of all mothers today in Serbia is to get one, to say, a congratulatory explanation which is why, in 2019, mothers are not planned in the budget. I would also like to ask Minister Djordjevic, as far as the task force that was formed on this particular issue has arrived, and if any help is needed for the task force, are we at our disposal? Once again, to remind Minister Djordjevic and Minister Sinisha Maloko that we have asked to meet with ministers, for the simple reason why we do not see the mother's interest in bringing down the government of the Republic of Serbia or to seek the express shift of ministers, but to come together to an adequate solution that will solve the problem of mothers in Serbia. So at that meeting, the only thing we want is to find an adequate solution, that is, to find a solution that would solve the problem of those mothers who are today the most vulnerable, and these are mothers who don't have 18 months' work experience in a job. I just heard from Minister Djordjevic that he said that those mothers who have a problem applying this law on this basis, that a different situation would not receive so much, not so many, not so many thousand, two dinars, etc. I can't agree with that, since we have one category of unemployed mothers, those who were unrecognized in the Serbian market, were practically invisible workers, they were invisible to the system, and thus they didn't have a worker's relationship and as unemployed mothers could receive amounts that go to what we're talking about, which is a republican minimumer, or 25,000 dinars. That was not so long ago, so it was only three years ago. What the mothers of the "Moms are Law" initiative and I as a folk MP representing that initiative are looking for is somehow the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries to find a way to provide compensation to all mothers in Serbia on the basis of maternity leave or absence for a child, at least at the height of a republican minimum. So, I'm sure of it, my colleague Vlad Djuric and the other colleagues who spoke here explained several items of which we could take and focus this money practically on mothers and maternity families in Serbia. We think there's room in the budget. When you ask us what kind of sum it is, we're somewhere in the roughest possible calculation, finance ministers, I hope you won't mind, given that there's not enough adequate data based on which we could have calculated more precisely. So, if it's about families that are 65,000 in 2017, and we say that each of them should receive an amount at the level of a republican minimumer, we're talking about a sum of about 20 billion dinars, with the good part of that amount that the Republic of Serbia already singles out and it is shown in this budget, with us not having the details of this budget at that level, so I can't talk about which sum it is. So, we're really saying, I'm sure of it, even this rough bill, about a difference that will arise and that, I'm sure, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia can handle. I have a really nice experience in co-operation with Minister Djordjevic and I don't want to spoil that good atmosphere that's created between us, I'd like to get answers and try to find a solution with common forces how mothers in Serbia can have one dignified motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51239	Thank you. LJupka Mihajlovska has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51240	Thank you, Chairman. In her amendment, the colleague gave a special reference to vulnerable groups. You know that parents of children with developmental difficulties are also one of the extremely sensitive social groups in Serbia. When we talk about the Law on financial support for families with children, there has been some misunderstanding at the route of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour where women who have children with disabilities are prevented from receiving compensation for work when they are absent because of special care, but if a child is given an allowance for the care and assistance of another person, they must choose whether to take the supplement or take the salary. We've already met in practice with a situation where women were forced to apply at the Centre for Social Work to suspend the payment of other people's care and help. It's really inadmissible, one right shouldn't deny another. I think there's been a misunderstanding, especially when I hear the interpretation of Minister Djordjevic that it is related to some parts of the law of someone referring to the Ministry of Health. Therefore, I ask that this unfair provision in Article 17 and Article 12 be corrected and that, in no way, children with developmental difficulties are not conditioned, or their earnings cannot depend on additional care and assistance from another person, and based on the disability that their child has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51241	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51242	Thank you. Let's just get one thing straight first. We don't have money in the budget for this, and then the citizens of Serbia get the wrong impression that we don't give or promise anything here, so we won't give it. When there's a law, then there's a right acquired. Whatever's going on, even if you don't have financial resources, you have to provide them to pay for it, because otherwise you have, as it has happened, so now we have cases that we have court proceedings from some period before 2012, where someone acquired the right to pay someone. Then it's usually much more expensive, because we also have court fees and trial costs, etc. Now, to avoid that, of course, this government is working responsibly and budgeting as much as it takes. In position 472, that's what it takes, at least our estimate was, 5.8 billion, and that's how many in 472 positions. It doesn't exist now in the budget, when you look at the total budget, that it writes to you there an item separate for mothers and families. So it's all in one appraisal, and of course it's all going to be paid. As for the fact that you say to some mothers who don't work, that they have some guaranteed minimumer to pay them, they need to be very careful. We know in the previous period that some authorities, before 2012, were easily paid for some political points, did such things, owed themselves, and then out of unreal income. Do we? Of course we want to give it to everyone, but as much as there is revenue in the budget and then on the basis of that money being distributed in the most transparent way and that we have no problem with that acquired right. Once you've acquired the right, you can't break it with some law. So my message to citizens, i.e. mothers and maternity families, should not worry, what the Government, and we have consciously increased the fees for them, the Government will provide and they will be paid. The task force is working and will come out very quickly with new proposals, in line with the possibilities of budgets as much as we can increase and which new rights to give, as promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51243	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51244	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, MPs, what should certainly be enjoyed by citizens of Serbia, is the announcement that two new chapters in accession negotiations with the EU will be opened on December 10th, or on Monday, and Chapter 17, relating to economic and monetary policy, as well as Chapter 18, relating to statistics. This is not an accident, this is just proof that this government led a very responsible economic policy in the previous period and that it took care of every dinar in our budget. If I say that just yesterday over a billion and 30m euros in public debt, thus reducing public debt from 56.1% of GDP to 54.1%, it certainly says that the surplus, which in the year 2018 is 68 billion dinars, is a confirmation of what we have as a result of negotiations with the EU. However, I also have a moral obligation to respond to a fellow who was interested in subsidies to JP PEU Resavica. He made a mistake and time and place to be interested in it now. It was due in 2011 to see 4,000 miners without a dinar of paid contributions to PIO and without a paid dinar for health insurance coming down 500 metres below the ground. Debt for 19 months, so for the whole year 2011 and seven months 2012, is over a billion and a half dinar. It remains that Resavica is now paying her workers when she retires. At the time, anyone who had earned the right to no pension could not retire because he was not paid contributions to pension and disability insurance, and the same disabled workers at the time did not receive compensation as disabled workers. I have to say all this because the mining business is very responsible and very difficult. It is work 500 metres below ground, so you better take care of your former leader who asked for a personal ticket to JP PEU Resavica, when he was the minister of business, who demanded special additional costs for the company, which barely put an end to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51245	Thank you. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51246	Thank you, Chairman. The introduction of order in any area of life, even when it comes to the mandatory social security law, and the inevitable health system situation, and how it has an impact on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. But things don't stop there. The fact is that this state of affairs is also affected by the lives of our countrymen in the region. Regardless of some ominous comments from the opposition, the fact is that in the last two years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested 20.5m euros in projects only in Republika Srpska, in various projects from Trebinj to Novi Grad. But speaking of the state of the health system, I must point out that thousands of our countrymen are being treated annually in the Republic of Serbia. Last year alone, about four thousand people from Republika Srpska were treated in health institutions in the Republic of Serbia and the amount of services provided is somewhere at ninem euros. It is also commendable that prices of services provided by the rule, when it comes to the Republika Srpska fund, are somewhat lower than other funds from abroad. It is also commendable that the government of the Republic of Serbia is one of the largest donors in the Republika Srpska Solidarity Fund and at the end of last year has paid 250 000 euros in the fund. Otherwise, the fund will use funds to treat our small countrymen in the environment and all of this in itself is proof of one serious government policy when it comes to caring about the health of our countrymen in the region. When you look at the draft budget for 2019 and everything that is intended for it, you will make sure that this trend continues in 2019, and I am sure that it will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51247	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go, Dr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51248	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, esteemed gentlemen of ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, as well as in the last amendment, will continue to talk today about the status and position of disabled people. For the adoption of the law supplementing the Law on the Prevention and Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities adopted in 2016, the constitutional and legal basis was becoming, but with valid reasons for its adoption. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law on preventing discrimination on persons with disabilities is contained in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is regulated, provides a system of social and disability protection. The prevention of discrimination and the exercise of rights in accordance with the needs of disabled persons should be said to represent the permanent commitment of the Republic of Serbia, which is reflected in the priority objectives under the legislative legislation relating to the improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities and the prevention of any form of discrimination against them. In spite of the position of the Republic of Serbia, there are still risks of discrimination, marginalisation and social exclusion, people with disabilities who unfortunately tend to increase regardless of all the activities our country is doing to minimise these risks of creation. This law provides and provides for all persons with disabilities regardless of whether they are physical or sensory damage or diseases such as blind and impaired persons, persons who have suffered from various muscle, neuromuscular diseases, quadriplegia as well as persons who have no upper extremities, whether by birth they are such or have lost in some injury that they have the same rights as all other citizens. In fact, the problem arises when people with disabilities were asked to place their fingerprints on documents instead of delivering a signed signature in violation of human rights and the freedoms of persons with disabilities. The law on preventing discrimination is settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51249	Thank you, Dr. Babico. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here's a colleague of Birmanci's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51250	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, is one of the laws that relys on itself and which is a direct consequence of precisely the digitisation of Serbia, which appeared to be an impossible mission several years ago, but which in Serbia for only the last three, four years at the level of many developed states, and I am sure that no one has been able to implement digitisation, electronic business and to find practical application in this business. This law will also enable social insurance bonds to be very fast, not literally very fast, but at the moment and the necessary information regarding their social security, and on the other hand it shows that what was practice and what proved precisely on the case of the Department of Construction when we arrived at the tenth place in Serbia in just three years after the construction permit was issued. When we were able to lift the seals, respected citizens, I remind you that by electronic signature and by the laws introduced in the previous assembly sessions, we allowed citizens to carry out and sign contracts without seals, without direct contact, without going to court. I'll remind you not a long time ago, not with 20 witnesses, not with a signature in court, you couldn't believe what was done and what was signed. This country, electronic communication, digital communication and all we do with laws is guarantee that we have a future. A future that is safe for the citizens of Serbia and for the very state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51251	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go, colleague of David's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51252	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security will regulate issues concerning electronic administrations, i.e. electronic management of the database, which introduces a comprehensive central register, i.e. a central database where different bases will be united, and with regard to all social security bonds, which will have a significant impact on the increase and efficiency of local self-government, but also on increasing the efficiency of the entire state administration. This is another one of a set of laws that will improve not only the quality of life but also contribute to the safety and stability of citizens, which is one of the basic elements on which the 2019 budget is based. The result of government and President Aleksandar Vukic's work leading a responsible policy, a policy that leads to economic growth and economic progress, a policy that brings investors to Serbia to open new factories and create new jobs, is reflected in the fact that the new 370,000 jobs have been opened over the past four years, which has helped reduce the unemployment rate to 11.9%. Also, what is important is to highlight the increase in the budget for 2019 for capital investments. Compared to 2018, this is 30% higher funding, and a total of 220 billion dinars for capital investments are foreseen at the state level. There are investments in road infrastructure, new bridges, new tunnels, hospitals, health institutions, schools, kindergartens, all that will contribute to improving the infrastructure in Serbia, and thus raising the quality of life of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51253	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51254	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of this law as part of a comprehensive digitalisation process will contribute to a more efficient and organised record-keeping, among other things, of all employees in our country's territory. In addition to investment in equipment, healthcare institutions contribute to the country's development process and invest in professional training of healthcare professionals. All hundred young doctors, the best graduates from medical schools who received a job for a certain time in health institutions in June will get a permanent job as well as the possibility of professional training through specializations and doctoral dissertation. At the same time by the end of the year, another 50 new, young experts, the best medical faculty students in Serbia, will be admitted to work. Also, over six thousand specializations and sub-species have been allocated in the past few years, especially from the deficiting branches of medicine, and this is an indicator of the strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia to retain young experts who will become the bearers of the country's further development. Responsible and system-based staff policies and enabling regular and quality and professional training and adequate working conditions that include modern equipment, create conditions for new generations of doctors to contribute to the development of health care and thus to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51255	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51256	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, I have submitted an amendment to the 3rd Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Security. Article 3 of this law clearly defines three key principles – economic, efficiency and independence in the realisation of the objectives necessary for the functioning of the Serbian state. In 2018, the state of Serbia recorded GDP growth of 4.5%. This growth is certainly one of the biggest increases the state of Serbia has in its history, while at the same time the second growth of social gross products in Europe is at the moment. If you look at the curve that clearly defines that GDP growth is impossible without employment levels growing, then it is clear that Serbia in macroeconomic parameters, in addition to GDP growth, also has employee growth, but it is certainly not possible and cannot be achieved without investment. If you do not have investments, whether domestic or foreign, you cannot talk about macroeconomic stability in the state of Serbia. At the moment, Serbia is the leader of the region at the level of foreign direct investment. With 2.6 billion foreign direct investment, which is up 3.2% this year, Serbia is recording a key economic step at the level of the number of employees who come on the basis of foreign direct investments. Of the foreign direct investments, 6.7% of GDP is driven and foreign direct investments affect, of course, the fiscal revenues of the Serbian state. The fiscal revenues of the Serbian state, based on an increase in the number of employees, are constantly growing. If you look at the 2017 budget, they grow in this budget by 4.5% and compared to the 2018 budget, the 2019 budget will be up by 3.3%. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, macroeconomic parameters are stable and are in continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51257	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51258	Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues, respected citizens, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, and in this debate, I would like to refer to the rest of the issues on today's agenda, the financial sector laws, and in particular the proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 as the most important law in the year. The most important thing for us is that our economy continues to grow the way it has grown in the period since the state's care took over the SNS. Thus, among other things, there are funds for continuing the tour around Belgrade, the end of the road Surcin – Obrenovac, the construction of the highway Obrenovac – LJig, the road Preljina – Požega, Moravki Corridor, etc. Also, money was allocated for scientific – a technology park in Novi Sad, a digital classroom, the construction of a Data Centre in Kragujevac, as well as funds for building and equipping health institutions. Serbia is well on track following the measures implemented in fiscal consolidation and the establishment of economic stability. As an example of the realization of this policy, I will only mention some examples of realisation of investments and overall progress from the environment from which I come, from the city of Novi Sad in the last year. The Željev Bridge is open for traffic, the road infrastructure in Novi Sad and suburban settlements has been restored. Works have been done on a sewer network in Novi Sad and suburban settlements. The kindergartens, schools, RTTV buildings, hospitals and sports centres are being restored throughout Novi Sad and suburban towns. Listing what we have done, as in the city from which I come, in all of Serbia, could take days and still not be able to mention everything. The country of Serbia needs development and progress and that is what the SNS realises with Alexander Vukic at the helm. We need to maintain peace and stability in all areas. We don't need a yellow vest, a yellow dish and everything they wear as a message with such behavior and offer us as an alternative to Ramush's foot soldiers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51259	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51260	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of social protection institutions". Since the Central Register is an electronic database and an electronic service based on IT technologies, it was also necessary to provide a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow for more efficient and more effective implementation of rights and respecting requests for electronic data exchange between state authorities, i.e. the development of e-government, all in order to increase the efficiency of both the Central Register and other bodies and organisations, users of data from the Central Register, and this will allow better filling of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the coming year, so that we can expect GDP growth in the Republic of Serbia for 2019 to be greater than in 2018, and this is the result of the reform processes that started in 2014 and which resulted in great 2018. By dissipating the economy, primarily by reducing tax burdens, fostering growth and job creation. The savings we made through the budget surplus create a space for larger investments for 2019, all of which is the result of the economically and socially responsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51261	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Krsto Janjušević, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51262	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the provisions of this law are certainly in the function of economic development and the Central Register is a unique database. The rise in the level of quality and data control is certainly in the function of development and growth and another reason where we show that wherever we can, we create conditions for creating new growth. In Luciani, Nada Jovanovic, a 64-year-old woman, was attacked. She only got her fist in her face because she supports the policy that creates growth, only because she wants everyone to do well, only because she supports the policy that has provided the Lucians 500m euros in flood protection, which supports the policy that protected the right bank of Bijelica by the 303.2m dinars, the left bank and the settlement Đerac 75.2, a policy that invests in the dedicated industry "Milan Blagojevic". Vladan Markovic, from Užica, a committee member who died of a hornbite bite, experienced reading from experts from the so-called "Strengthens". Alliance for Serbia - when we do nothing, let nature do its part. Is this because Vladan fought for Corridor 11 that will head for his Užica in spring and reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway? A fist in the face of Nada Jovanovic drew up the only plan and programme for those who call themselves the Alliance for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51263	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51264	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, the government of the Republic of Serbia through various projects contributes to poverty reduction, reducing the number of social cases. For example, through software activities, unemployment benefits are ensured by the exercise of the right of unemployed persons on the basis of unemployment insurance and, above all, the right to cash compensation, the right to health insurance and the right to pension-inhabited insurance. The central register of compulsory social security aims, above all, to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to compulsory social security, then to reduce the costs of the administration and ultimately to function more effectively in the social security system. Economic progress is the basis for funding social protection institutions. Social justice is one of the basic principles contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Social policy, if well-conceived, contributes to economic growth, serves as an economic stabiliser and protects people from poverty, reduces the number of social cases. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is prosperity for all citizens, and this is achieved by well-leaded social policy. The social aspect is with the developmental main feature of the budget. A set of financial laws that go along with the budget should contribute to setting sound grounds for increasing citizens' standards and reducing poverty. Since we are a country of EU accession and to implement our legislation of the EU directive, Serbia has also adopted among the first countries a programme for reforming employment policy and social policy as a strategic document. Serbia is a respectable country in the world and that is why today we have opened over 200 companies and hired over 300,000 people. This reduces the number of poor in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51265	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. Tatiana Macura, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51266	I'll be very brief. Indeed, Minister Djordjevic, I must say that Moms are angry. I have to say which women are threatened by the application of the bad law that's been in effect since July this year. It's about all those moms who have less than 18 months' work experience in their, let's call them workbooks. It's about all the moms who have children with disabilities. It's all mothers who are entrepreneurs, especially those who are involved in providing health services. It's all about those moms that are the most successful among us and who have high incomes, because they deserve it. And in the end, it's those women we call invisible workers. It would be really good, so it would be good to at least get some more accurate assurance when we're going to solve these women's problems in Serbia. So when can we expect to change this law? I agree that the Serbian government separates funds and that some groups of women are recognized. But that's not enough. You are, I'm sure, directed to how big this problem is. So, I ask you once again, on behalf of the good practice that we have, to help me, or to help us and to tell us if there is room to solve this problem in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51267	Thank you, colleague Macura. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51268	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, we have before us a bill on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance. The reasons for the adoption of this law are the need for efficient organisation, commitment of jobs, establishment and management of a central database where several different bases will be united, i.e. the introduction of a central database on social security contributions, employers and insurance undertakings. It was necessary to provide a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow for a more efficient and faster exercise of rights, as well as the integration of the Central Register and the Tax Administration. All of this will contribute to improving the quality of data, i.e. control on the same. This paper is in line with the Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance with the Labour Act. What will be ensured by applying the new Law on the central register of compulsory social security is, above all, a more effective control of the collection of contributions to compulsory social security. Then, reducing the costs of the administration and more efficient functioning of the social security system. This law will contribute to further modernisation and better service for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51269	Thank you, my fellow Prince. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51270	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers, respected ministry associates and respected colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to the third member of this law to further define this law, but before the amendment is explained, I would like to condemn the attack, first of all, to one woman, to one mother. But I don't see any colleagues doing it on the other hand or following their leader, Dragan Gilas, who daily calls for brutal violence, rapes, hangings, and so forth. Is that how we, fellow SNS, need to expect from their side, to be terrified of which one of us will be attacked because we don't think the same way they do? I will now continue to follow the amendment, because we want the overall development of the Republic of Serbia to continue and that is our policy, and apparently they can only lead politics in the absence of a political programme by violence in this country. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the proposed laws are really good and to support all these proposals and to give the highest gratitude to the finance minister, as the health ministry's budget will increase, and this is likely to continue to restore hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia. I can only add that in 2018 alone, hundreds of millions of dinars were invested in rebuilding both hospitals and home health, and I hope that this policy and this trend will continue in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51271	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already talked about being single, so-called. The leaders of the opposition's desire to reduce the government's good economic performance, they say it's because our statistics are bad. One of these incorrect information that's spreading to the public is that the government is falsely showing the number of employees because it's supposed to be 100,000 people moving out of the country on an annual basis. Dragan Gilas said that in 2017, 100,000 people moved out of Serbia. It wasn't hard for me. I consulted the OECD status data today. So it is the statistics of this international organisation. First of all, for 2017 they did not present any data at all, and data on the number of people evicted from the Republic of Serbia are next. In 2007, 27 thousand, in 2008 40,000, in 2009 27 thousand, in 2010 38 thousand, then 34 thousand, then 40,000, then 44 thousand, then 56, then 60 thousand in 2015 and the last data from 2016 is 43,577 thousand people. Why am I saying this? Because they started with this false data that hundreds of thousands of people moved out of Serbia on an annual basis, which is not true, and then, with a mere multiplication of hundreds of thousands of times over the last six years, they came up with the incorrect data that 600,000 people have moved out of Serbia in the last six years. So that information is not true. This is official data and not data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, these are official international data that clearly state how incorrect propaganda is directed against the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51273	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51274	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I would only like to supplement the presentation of the previous speaker, my colleague Martinovic, to say that opposition MPs have just been calling for the official information we are now talking about, just as they have been calling for certain data and an assessment of the fiscal council that much of Serbia's budget is being spent on the military and police and on their equipment. They do not want to say that this type of state support, precisely to the dedicated industry and manufacturers who have been domestic companies that work for years, such as equipment, when we talk about uniforms in southern Serbia, which are factories that employ a large number of workers. They are not just saying that this is one country-specific industry that is export-oriented, which essentially increases its exports in Serbia's economy, but also increases the inflow of foreign direct investment, because by increasing competitiveness, we have an increase in foreign direct investment, so we have a report in August 2017 that Serbia is at an international level one of the best listed countries with an efficiency index for greenfield investment in the world. That means she's a representative state when it comes to investors who want to open new jobs, factories. We had a chance to see in Zrenjanin, that factories with high technology are now coming, especially when it's the IT sector. Therefore, this amendment, which I am talking about and when we talk about the Central Register for Mandatory Social Insurance, is now talking about the application of the most modern software to unite multiple sectors in a country that should simply disband the state when it comes to costs, but also citizens of Serbia, when it comes to many contacts with state authorities. So the Republic Statistics Institute really wanted to show how much Serbia, at what level, is in the digital economy, so it did a huge survey, which said companies use a computer in their business, 99.7% have internet connections, that 80.4% of companies own a website. For citizens, when talking about research, it should be said that 90% of households own a mobile phone, 68% own a computer and over 1,270,000 people use electronic public administration services. It is precisely one of the main indicators that the state is doing very much when it comes to the Industrial and Information Technologies Development Strategy from 2017 to 2020 and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done and accepted one action plan that it simply wants to advance and increase all of these percentages, which would essentially increase the interest of not only foreign and domestic investors, but all of those countries in the region that want to connect informationally. The 2030 agenda is just talking about sustainable development and that increasing the competitiveness of economic development directly affects poverty reduction, directly affecting the opening of a large number of jobs and improving education, and that is why this development of the IT sector in Serbia is of great importance, and therefore I think that those proposals for legislation and investment in education in new scientific and technological parks, which will be in both Belgrade and Novi Sad, will contribute to the real development of this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51275	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51276	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance is a new draft law that will in an unequivocally address issues that are important for the use and organisation of the Central Register. The central register was released in 2013 and such provisions in our legislation are necessary precisely because of the faster and more effective exercise of rights among our citizens. My amendment, above all, is heading towards support, supporting the government's efforts to regulate certain issues in a systematic manner. For example, the adoption of this law will allow labour inspectors to find work more easily in black and to take certain measures in accordance with the laws of employers. We remember that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs published on its site a list of all employers who found black workers and that was one way to fight to comply with the law. Also, the Norwegian embassy supported the ministry's project, which was called "Say No Work on Black", when a free phone line was opened to report work on black. Therefore, this bill will certainly aim to remove damages and prevent possible damages caused by illegal work, as it suffers from illegal work by the state, the damage suffered by employers acting in accordance with the law, but the damage suffered and the citizens working on black and then do not have social benefits. At the end of my presentation, I would like to join my colleague Barisic and, together with her, condemn the violence against the woman who took place in Luciani, the candidate for a councilwoman, at the exact time when various activities take place in 16 days of the activation of violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51277	Thank you. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51278	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are introducing this amendment to the private sector as one of the principles governing this law. The modern system of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance also provides opportunities for faster and easier control of the collection of contributions, but also for reducing the costs of the administration. All this leads to a larger flow of money into the budget, and thus a larger volume of investment. In this regard, I will take the opportunity to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and you, ministers, as funds will soon be approved for the complete recovery of the General Hospital in Arangelovac. The value of investment will be greater than 10m euros and when the works are completed, we will probably have the most modern hospital of all municipalities in Serbia. It will be the crown of a huge job that began with the co-operation of local self-government and businessmen from Arangelovac. The construction of a polyclinic, 800 square meters, is worth almost a million euros. It continued with the introduction of state-of-the-art equipment and appliances. With the help of the Ministry of Health, and several days ago, the first such type in this part of Serbia began with work. That way, more than 80,000 people gravitating towards the General Hospital in our city will have top conditions for diagnostics. This will in a certain way make it easier for the hospital in Kragujevac, which is gravitating about 500,000 citizens, as part of the patients will be able to perform such examinations in Arangelovac. This is certainly one of the biggest investments in the last half century and will serve for decades to all inhabitants of the Arangelovec and the neighboring cities. I have cited only one example of really many projects being implemented in Arangelovac, which shows that we are going in the right direction. This law will only raise the level of the organisation and help make the entire system of state administration even more efficient, which puts us in a position to invest even more in important projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51279	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51280	Thank you, Vice President. Certainly, in the past few years, one of the main features, the characteristics of the government of the Republic of Serbia is the fight against tax evasion and the avoidance of contributions. It's part of the government's policy since 2012 to finally start building until then a collapsed and broken state. Without responsibility in society, without paying taxes and contributions, without paying the government's obligations, we can hardly talk about a stable, efficient and orderly society and state. In that sense, it is a contribution, there has been a lot of talk here about how much legislation we are discussing today contributes to the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, but it certainly contributes and develops, strengthening the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. With such clear, concrete mechanisms, with clear bases, with the fight against all those who want to avoid paying taxes and contributions, the rights of primarily employees and all those budget users in the Republic of Serbia are protected. Strengthening the rule of law is certainly one of the foundations and one of the effective ways to build a better and fairer society. And in that sense, when we talk about the rule of law, we also talk about the democratic atmosphere in society, we talk about what seems to be the will of citizens in every way possible. That is why there is no possibility, there is no way that the violence that has taken place today in the Lucan elections can change the will of citizens and can replace the absence of a programme and policy that is currently supported by a large number of citizens. Only concrete programmes and concrete solutions provide support, not violence and beating up political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51281	Thank you, colleague Palalic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51282	I have to say one more thing about employment. I already said that. After that, however, there were two discussions, and the Fiscal Council also wrote that employment was prohibited. So, employment is not prohibited, employment is controlled and new young professionals are constantly employed. That's what I'm saying for the citizens of Serbia. Another thing I want to say for the citizens of Serbia, the amount of property tax is not decided in the Serbian Parliament. This is where the algorithm is placed, or the size that participates. It is decided in the congregations of municipalities and in the congregations of cities. Now there's a price per square metre. They set the price per square meter based on the last three transactions. If there was no transaction, then they take the price of a square meter from the previous year, but they keep the rate of 0.4 ministers all the time. It's the highest possible rate. It should be intervened to reduce that rate and they have the right to reduce that rate. So, regardless of the transactions that exist, it's less than 0.4 to make the property tax smaller for Serbian citizens, because the volume is bigger and has to be growing, but the tax has to be getting smaller. So it can't be an excuse, so you know the last three transactions, the price of a square meter is that and it's over. No one mentions the rate. You know that well and I think that one recommendation should go and that you may correctly calculate the possibilities of any local self-government or in the city to get on that basis, because it is the original income of local self-government, so that they are told – do not pay only those who pay, but also those who do not pay. Last thing I'm saying is, you know this well, America owes 22 trillion dollars. It's a public debt of America. So, a million million, then a million billion. America is on its knees, or the dollar is on its knees, and I recommend that we move to the national currency, that we work trade in national currencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51284	Just one moment, I'm sorry. The Americans, why are they mad at the Turks? Because the Turks, S400, pay the Russians in liras, not dollars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51285	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51286	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Serbia is 10 times better today than it was. Every day we record significant victories in the economy, and in creating new jobs, and in opening. Every week we open a new factory in one of the municipalities and cities in our beautiful Serbia. After fiscal consolidation, after a decrease in public debt, we actually record a number of results in the area of the economy every day. Serbia today is among the three fastest growing economies in Europe. I can confirm that to you, as a member of the Committee on European Integration. We are in third place, and we share third place together with Hungary, only Poland and Ireland are ahead of us, and these are truly fantastic results from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, and all resolution ministries. Many EU member states really face a number of challenges every day, with many difficulties. One small Serbia and its economy record victory and record results and indeed it is commendable. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, which defines the principles of this very important law. It's about modern law, one European law that will bring us closer to all those missing standards. All citizens, businesses and state institutions benefit from the adoption of this law. This is an electronic database representing the Central Register of Mandatory Social Security. They will import four institutions – the Tax Administration, the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service. We will no longer experience all those negative situations that Serbian citizens are holding their heads when they are due to retire. Now they will be able to check their situation with one click, and now they will be able to control state institutions, as well as their employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51287	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51288	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. This Article 3 is for viewers who follow the transmission, in fact speaking the principles of the Central Register of Obligation Social Insurance, which is governed by the principles of independence, efficiency and economics. What we need, and I don't think we mentioned in this detailed discussion of this Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, is that the implementation of this law provides the necessary financial resources by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018. So no new funds are needed here, because they are already planned for the 2018 budget. Another thing we should also say, for the establishment of a register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in public funds users, at the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, there is no need for new employment, so there is no increase in administration and there is also no need for any new employment of the person on any basis. So this is the information our citizens should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51289	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51290	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security will provide us with a unique database of insurance, insurance persons and the records of the contributors. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia will have quality data in precise budget planning, but also in precise macroeconomic policy management. This is another evidence in a series that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to creating a healthy economic environment and completely healing the economy from a yellow disease that lasted until 2012. Since I come from Kursumlia, I feel a duty to my fellow citizens to say that local self-government has signed a lease agreement with the Israeli company Woodfil for five years, that in the course of training of future workers in the said company that will deal with the production of furniture, that equipment is under way and that it is quite clear that the factory will start working. The only problem is that it is the subject of a contract to lease a business space of 7,000 square squares, where it operated until 2003 the fashion concept "7. July’. I'll remind you, fashion confection "7. July" was sold in 2003 for a ridiculous 31 billion dinars. All the equipment was sold out, 16 stores that were part of the fashion "7." July," all the cables and the problem of why the Israeli company has not yet started working is the connection for electricity and electrical installations. Once connected to the power grid, it will start with installation of equipment and machinery and factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51291	Thank you, colleague Charapich. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51292	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as well as in their previous presentations, will focus on digitisation, because I believe that the country is making progress through digitisation, both in development and social terms. We're hearing today about how the way we run statistics is actually due to the fact that we have information that unemployment has been reduced. I would just tell them that they need to check how many factories were built in the country since 2012, which is some number over 50, and how many people have actually been employed in these factories since 2012. We also have the construction of highways bigger than in the last 35 years, which is about 160 km, and it significantly attracts foreign investments. As for education, we also hear that the reduction in unemployment stemmed from young people leaving the country. That's not true either. At this point, I would like to commend the Minister of Education and the Ministry, because funds are being invested, both in digitalisation and in education, equipment over 2000 smart classrooms, with smart boards, in education, preschool education, compulsory secondary education, as well as establishing a better student and student standard. All of this is done to reduce the number of young people abroad. So the government is doing everything in order for young people not to go. The same situation is in health care. Salaries are increasing, working on the digitisation of health institutions, facilitating the work of doctors and healthcare professionals, and is also the government's goal of leaving the country as few healthcare professionals and doctors as possible. So digitisation permeates all spheres of life, in order to make services easier and more efficient, so that the administration is in the service of citizens and we hope that this will improve the standard of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51293	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51294	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected colleagues, social security is an old topic, such as old and only humanity. In the performance of registration and conduct of a single database, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance shall be governed by the principles of independence, efficiency and economics. Given the constant changes in society, in line with the economic development of the Republic of Serbia and international standards, we have a continuous process of amending and supplementing certain laws in this area. The social security area is also governed by international bilateral social insurance contracts concluded by the Republic of Serbia with other countries, as well as conventions and acts by international organisations, such as the Labour Organisation and the Council of Europe. The basic rights under the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act are guaranteed by law. The law also provides for mandatory health care aspects for all citizens. The Republic of Serbia is an economically stable country, and among the fastest growing economies in Europe. We also have a parallel with economic reinforcements to invest in health care. It is a strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the AP Vojvodina. The government of the AP Vojvodina has invested 3.7 billion dinars in healthcare since June 2016. In 2018, 2.8 billion dinars were invested in the healthcare budget in the AP Vojvodina, as well as for improving the conditions for treating patients. This is a major step to compensate for years of under-investment in health care in the AP Vojvodina. The funds included all health centres in the AP Vojvodina, from Novi Sad, Subotica, Sombora, Pancheva, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51295	Thank you, Dr. Repac. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51296	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia envisions a low deficit and thus lower inflation, as well as a stable exchange rate of dinars. The main feature of the budget is the balance and social aspect through the increase in wages, pensions and minimum labour prices, which will amount to 27 000 dinars. What makes me particularly happy, because I come from the most beautiful spa in Serbia, from Vrnjačka Banja, is that this year's budget includes funds for vouchers. Of course, our farmers will also be able to feel the benefits, because the budget envisions an increase of 51.7 billion dinars, which is about 17.4%. The biggest increases are in the agrarian payment division and they are 24.7%. This will be achieved through direct payments, through rural development measures, IPARD funds, water protection, investment in anti-urban protection, about 100 of these anti-urban stations. An increase of 16% was defined as the Ministry of Environmental Protection, for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant. It is these increases that I mentioned, as well as the ones that I did not mention, that will, of course, show that the reforms implemented have produced results and that, as early as January 1st, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will see exactly the effects of these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51297	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Bojan Bagica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, bag buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51298	Dear Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, which adds Article 2, reads: "The application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the efficiency of social protection institutions." Total changes in the political, economic and value system, as well as unfavourable demographic movements, have led to the social balance of our society being disrupted. The consequences of all this were a huge increase in unemployment, poverty and social decomposition, as well as an increased threat to children, powerless and old people due to reduced opportunities for families and society to play their own protective role. All political developments over the past three decades have led to a rise in various forms of social behaviour and new forms of crime. Accordingly, as with other social security systems, a number of problems have arisen that required adaptation to changes and system upgrades. What is currently in the Republic government, as well as the one before it, must be acknowledged, is an extremely high social responsibility towards all citizens who needed state aid, even at a time when fiscal consolidation saved in all spheres, the state has been able to increase the amount of funding provided for social protection, as well as the extent of the users of that protection year by year. Since I come from the municipality of Temerin, I cannot without commending the current municipal leadership, and above all the president of the municipality, Mr. Djuru Zigu, who has been at the head of the municipality for four years and who is paying great attention to all those who are poor, sick, those who need help most, not allowing even one member of the Temerin municipality to remain single, helpless and unprotected. This is exactly the kind of policy, both at local and republican level, which is the best way to justify the trust that citizens show us in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51299	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51300	Thank you, Your Honor. It is an honor to discuss this draft budget, as the proposal for a 2019 budget characterizes an increase in the standard of living of our citizens through an increase in wages and pensions and provides capital investment. We heard ourselves, from the Honorable Minister Sinishi Mali, that 30% of the budget proposal was proposed to allocate 30% more for investments than in the previous 2018. From that we will build highways, a large number of bridges, tunnels, health homes, kindergartens, schools, hospitals, clinical centres. A large number of new projects and the continuation of existing projects, in order to restore and build our infrastructure in the shortest time period possible. The draft budget for 2019 also characterizes the development of the economy, the economic development accent, by reducing the payload from 63% to 62%. Respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, I just want to deny our opposition colleagues, stress once again that the price of fuel is falling and will fall, and that the public debt is now 54.1% of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51301	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51302	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, adding the principle of social equality in addition to the principle of independence, efficiency and economics of the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, this law would have been given a clearly defined and profiled commitment that the principle of social equality is the reason for the adoption of this law, and in addition to defining this, this provision would have been a clear provision for some future time if what happened to us in 2003. In fact, instead of having a clearly built system like this, we used the existence of SDK, which was consciously and deliberately shut down, to open up space for robbery privatisation. The service of which the Japanese envied us, because only in the Republic of Serbia at that moment, the money that you send to your company, the committee, the associate and the rest of it, could be used at the same time, provided full control of the taxes and contributions paid. Obviously, those who in 2003, not only destroyed such a system where everyone envied us, but also destroyed domestic banks to secure robbery privatisation, allowed only one year more than 400,000 workers to lose their jobs, end up on the streets, not care about social equality. If there were any specifics at that time that we could call upon, we would have had a lot more elements and ways to recover many things that have been destroyed, but even an ugly experience, it should be applied and the reason for the adoption of this amendment is exactly what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51303	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I would, just one little example of how it works. As is known, on 1 April 2013, the current Public Procurement Act came into force, and I can say that it entered full application during 2014. We've had a lot of discussions here from the former regime about how someone stole the state, how they're still stealing, how some are angry, how there's no democracy, and since the new Public Procurement Act applies, let's say, in the Health Protection Fund alone, it's 400 billion dinars for the same amount of drugs and medical equipment obtained, let's say, compared to 2011. This means, ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Serbia, that every year by 2012, the former regime stole 400 billion euros from the Health Protection Fund, or about 48 billion dinars. As everyone knows, the Health Services Fund is partly full of budgets. What was the former regime doing? He raised expensive loans, transferred from budget to fund account, where 400m euros went missing annually or translated, on average just over a million euros a day, and now they're still being made and angry, I guess, because they can't steal anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51305	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51306	I thank the president. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, if those who spread hatred and violence were calling for a coup, rape and insult, hitting the benches, wearing over a jacket of yellow vests and promoting lies and fraud now in power, this as well as other laws that are now on the agenda, would be a dead letter on paper, because simply no money would have. Serbia would also be a major bankruptcy in deep self-insulation, soft crime and corruption, a safe house of illegal construction, nepotism and employment. By contrast, by lagging out the brave and bold reforms launched by our President Aleksandar Vucic, Serbia is now host and responsible and the budget is characterized by a social aspect that is linked to an increase in living standards, which are monitored, which are accompanied by salary increases and pension increases, as well as a development aspect, as it envisions record implementation for capital investments that will boost further GDP growth. In this way, Serbia is the leader in attracting investment, a stable and healthy economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51307	Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51308	Thank you, President. Madam Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. This bill is a brand-new bill that will fully regulate matter in this area. We had opportunities from the past that inefficient administration and irresponsible employers, who put workers in a situation that had no complete information on whether they had been paid mandatory social security obligations on a regular basis and on time. By adopting this bill, we will remove this dilemma from the employees, as one push on the button will come up with payment information for their mandatory social security. In addition to what I've been talking about, there's definitely Article 3. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security in which it is said to be in the performance of registration and conduct of a single base, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance shall be governed by the following principles. Independence under which the Central Register, in its work, will be independent, within the framework of the authorisation, established by this law, or by another regulation. The principle of efficiency according to which all reported data shall be transferred without delay to a single base. The third principle, the principle of economics according to which the registration and transmission process is carried out without delay and at as little cost to organisations of compulsory social security. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51309	Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? That's over. I'm sorry. Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we are witnessing that large ones can again be accounted for at the expense of small ones and that we need strategic security on agriculture because we have experience with the military and economic pressures that our country has been exposed to not so long ago. So farmers are very important in food production and I believe that they should be taken care of socially. I don't think the way so far is effective enough. Today, almost social aid is far greater than a peasant pension, and many in the country resort to sales, especially smaller agricultural holdings, agricultural land to reach social aid 65 years ago and not have to pay pension and disability insurance. We need to modify it, we need to improve it, all the old people deserve to have a dignified age. I think that apart from the large agricultural holdings, we should pay very much attention to small agricultural land, we don't need to put them out. They should be specialized in a certain type of production, that those who are medium-sized for livestock, that we no longer export plants, or that we don't export cereal to other people's cattle, that other cattlemen, other farmers, have jobs, that the smallest agricultural holdings are specialized in fruit and vegetables, where with plastic and glass production on one hectare you can make a production that is worth hundreds of hectares. All this needs to be processed, therefore, to develop processing facilities as close as possible to the place of production, so that farmers who work in the fields can supplement their income, be if they need to be mixed agricultural holdings, that what they do not earn in agriculture, in agricultural production, through cooperative and processing cooperatives, can be complemented by income, packaging, processing and other ways and modernising pension-inhabited insurance, that we have satisfied fathers and sons, that they no longer leave the village, that even if what they now live in the country remains, that our villages are not shutting down. The quality of life should be the same as it is in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51311	The 3rd amendment was submitted by Stanija Compirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51312	Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance has started operational work since August 2013. In the beginning, only applications for compulsory social security started, and today, through the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, inputs and regular updates of the data on payment obligations for compulsory social security contributions to insurance and insured persons are made. The Central Register shall run a single database established on the basis of a database owned by the Tax Administration, the Republic Fund PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service. These institutions are obliged to exchange data and thus to use data in an efficient manner and without delay to obtain accurate and precise data that ultimately serve insurance companies to exercise their rights. It can be freely said that the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is an institution which, given the comprehensive process of digitisation and transition to an electronic form of business, is increasingly gaining importance, making it easier to carry out obligations by, above all, the payer of contributions. The above-mentioned amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which remove the payment obligation of depositors, contribute to the transfer of certain forms to the Republic of the PIO Fund, but rather the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, by downloading data from the Tax Administration, to the single base which the Republic of the PIO Fund can use. Therefore, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is, in fact, one institution of great importance, which, on the one hand, facilitates business and the exercise of the right of depositors and insurance companies, with a large amount of time, money and energy savings, and on the other hand, largely protects the interests of the Republic of Serbia, because, in one place, data on payment bonds of contributions and payments of contributions to compulsory social security, thus preventing unconscious persons from avoiding their legal obligations. In voting day, I would like to invite my colleagues to support this law, as well as a set of laws ahead of us and the proposal for a budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51313	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51314	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security has defined the principles of the Central Register, namely independence, efficiency and economics. My proposal is to be in Article 3. The bill adds Article 2 which reads: "The application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving the protection of agricultural insurance." With that in mind, I would refer to the projects in agriculture that the town of Leskovac has realised over the past period. The "Electrification of Fields" project invested 65.6 million dinars of donor funds, with the participation of ten % plot owners. More than 37km of power grids were built at 130 hectares and 220 land-uses in five villages that were able to power the power pumps using electricity, which shows its value and cost-effectiveness in the first year of use. The town of Leskovac continued to prepare new project documentation for five new water user associations on the surface of about 250 hectares. Then, the restoration of the atar roads through this project in 2014, 2015 and 2016 was renovated about 140 kilometers of atar roads in about 70 catastrian municipalities. The project was worth about 50 million dinars every three years. The Ministry helped the city in 2014 with 60%, in 2015 with 50% project value, and in 2016 with 47% of project value. The third project is a land-commassion project. This project covers about 1,100 hectares in three populated places and over 82 million dinars have been invested in the last five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51315	National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51316	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, all members of the team who make up the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance must have the same goal, understand it and have a clear intention and commitment to achieving the goal. Independence in team work is clearly defined, understandable and acceptable to everyone. The purpose of independence in the work is to direct the team's work, concentrate and collect energy and motivate members, and its function is to facilitate the definition of priorities in determining tasks that will lead to the achievement of the objective and better social security. The pension and disability insurance branches, as well as the Novi Pazar Health Insurance Institute, welcome the upcoming newspaper, thanks to the real decisions of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Respecting the principles envisaged, in addition to the above-mentioned principle of labour independence, as well as the principles of efficiency which foresees that all reported data are transferred without delay to the single base and principles of economicity, according to which the process of registration and transfer of data to compulsory social security organisations is carried out without delay and at as little cost, enables citizens of Serbia to fully apply positive legal rules which are entirely on their side and says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the SNS, has taken care of its citizens first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51317	To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51318	Thank you. Serbia is seeking to meet the standards of state administration as well as leading EU countries, i.e. to create an effective administration for our construction. It is doubtless that Serbia has implemented a number of reforms in recent years aimed at modernising the state system of administration. That trend continues. The reason for the adoption of this law is the organisation of an efficient form for the establishment and management of a central database where different social security databases will be united. Such a system should ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. In the Central Register, all reported data shall be located without delay and shall be transferred to a single base and shall become accessible, with the aim of carrying out the whole business and activity at as little cost as possible. What is very important is to point out that the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance will contain data on all forms of social security contributions, employers and insurance companies themselves. The amendment I submitted to Article 3 further defines the subject matter of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51319	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51320	The Honored Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of Parliament, on Article 3 of the proposed Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, I submit an amendment in terms of the addition of attitudes 2 which more precisely defines the link between the proposed legislative solution and the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, Article 3. The bill provides for an area governed by law, which is primarily the activity of the Central Register, as well as its relationship with other bodies in the functioning of the social security system. The reasons for the adoption of the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance are contained in the need to introduce a central database on social security bonds, employers and insurance. The aim of the law is to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. The adoption of this law will provide a unique database on mandatory social insurance, insurance and insurance insurance obligations, to which data are entered and stored and updated on an electronic daily basis. A set of reform laws that are before lawmakers is a healthy basis for society's progress, as they will continue to increase investment activities, reduce unemployment and improve living standards for the final result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51321	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51322	I thank you, the Honorable President of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, another of the amendments from my favorite theme – sustainable development, amendment to Article 3 of the proposal for this law. With this amendment, I am trying, as well as any previous, to strengthen all our efforts in the economic and economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia, but above all in sustainable development, in the recovery and development that will take place. So this is the moment when we're starting something from a state of lethargy and a state of lag and we're trying to create something for the future for generations to come behind us. I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in all its legislative proposals, has strictly adhered to those 17 objectives of the 2030 Agenda, and I will mention only two objectives here. One is decent work and economic growth. When I say that, I mean promoting continued inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full productivity and employment, as well as decent work for everyone. That's what all the bills and everything we do in this previous period don't say. I'm going to mention another goal, and that's the goal without poverty. End poverty everywhere and in all forms. About this amendment so much. I'll continue in the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51323	Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51324	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister Sarčević, I thank you and thank you for all the reform procedures in education and education, especially at the level of dual education and on the budget when it comes to the salaries of educators, and you, Mr. Popovic, for the successes in the science sector, you, Mr. Mali, have had no problems, because you have already proven your extraordinary abilities as mayor, as well as Mr. Djordjevic in your portfolio. Dear Presidents, when it comes to the Central Register, the former regime had no problems in Dragan Gilas, decorated in Vuk Jeremic and Sasa Jankovic, because they have left accurate data checks during their authorities – 575,000 workers on a variety of grounds and here it is, it has come these days. Believe it or not, via the Voice of America, it announces bloody conflicts in the Republic of Serbia. Does he mean, like October 5th Milosevic, that he sent to The Hague, sent Alexander Vukic? A little tomorrow. Jeremic has these days instead of the Central Register working with us, stuttering at a court in New York, caught in tampering with white-world thieves, Patrick Ho and Sheikh Tidian Gaddi. It is not their goal, respected presidents, the Central Register and the promotion of the Central Register, but the Satanization of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his brother Andrej, the son of Daniel and his parents, and to reduce the role and personality of the President of the Republic while he makes superhuman efforts to seek a permanent, compromise and sustainable solution for our southern province, but they have wronged themselves. The more they muddle him, the more they spread lies about him, the more they satanize him, him and his family, he's getting stronger and stronger, the stronger he gets. It's tighter than a rock. Unbreakable. Do you know why? Because through it, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are transposing their energy for the future of our country and our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51325	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51326	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity, what Professor said. Atlagic, not to enjoy the praises, but to say that the wrong impression of the public is that the education budget is not significantly higher, it is significantly higher, and indeed if we have the most employees and that 9% went to an increase in salary for everyone, basic, medium, high and science, we have increased the various quotas. It's not that Sinisha is here, but I think a significant state has moved the scale when it comes to education. We had about 190 billion last year on all grounds, and that's for education, for infrastructure, for science, and now we're somewhere over 217 billion. This is a significant increase, and in addition, science has gained the most and this law on the Science Fund aimed to create new capacity, to invest more and more in science from year to year in Serbia. The Fund is also tasked with increasing revenues through the investment of businesses and other ministries, and what is very important is that other countries participating in the joint scientific ventures, today we had a meeting with people from South Korea, yesterday from China, so intensive international co-operation is in the field. What's very important is that it doesn't go into this budget, which you can't see, what Sinisha would show differently is percentages, and that's infrastructure. So last year, I was using office data and what we're budgeting, without local self-government, was somewhere around 300m euros. With what I have with Marko Blagojevic, what is currently being budgeted, what will now be opened and what will be in 2019 is somewhere near 400m euros. It's already a huge job to rebuild schools, because we can't just talk about raising wages and digitising and reforming the curricula and training teachers if our school buildings have been up and running for 40 years. There installations neither suffer air conditioning nor computers, so working on a network, working on, means not only a network as a number of institutions, but also on a digitalisation network is a job that awaits us in the future. Two thousand digital classrooms this year and last year we did, and this year we have a plan of eight to ten thousand. It's a very fast pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51327	Thank you very much. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51328	President-in-Office, honourable ministers with fellow Members, honourable Members of the People, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 3. The draft law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance reads as follows: ‘Article 3. The bill adds the 2nd position -- the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on monetary policy. Article 3 The draft law, which bears the title ‘Principals’, sets out the principles which are governed by the Central Register in the performance of the tasks prescribed by this law. These principles are the independence of the Central Register in its work within the framework of the powers laid down by this law, efficiency, as all reported data are entered into the single base without delay, as well as the principle of economicity, as all data are entered and transferred to social security organisations without delay and at as little cost as possible. The importance of this law, as well as the other laws on the agenda of this session, and in particular the 2019 budget law for all the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and its fiscal and monetary system, I have talked about in explaining the previous amendments, and I will now only indicate that this budget will allow for a stable rate of dinar, with an average inflation of 2.2% and with real GDP growth of 3.5%, as outlined in the framework of the 2019 draft budget law, and that this budget will continue to lead to such monetary policy. For all this, I call on Members to support this law, the 2019 budget law, as well as the other laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51329	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanislav Janosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51330	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, in addition to the law on the Central Register for Mandatory Social Insurance, in addition to the 2019 budget and many other laws that are very good for the effective functioning of our country, we have a constant dispute and conduct of this debate, as well as the adoption of all these laws. The Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, making sure that businessmen and employers keep their obligations as they should, that they regularly pay social, health, pension and disability insurance, will affect that the Republic of Serbia is developing evenly. For example, the Business Society Act will also affect that the Republic of Serbia remains an attractive location for all investors, as we aim to affect the reduction of the unemployment rate of 11.9% today. Why? Because 370,000 people have been employed and no one can question that. It is necessary to be unique in this turbulent period, not to look at provocations, we need to respect all regional and international agreements. Only this can make us safe because the absolute policy of Alexander Vukic is a policy of stability that will ensure the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51331	On Article 3 of the amendment, a Member of the Parliament of Studenka Kovacevic submitted. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51332	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, all the laws we are discussing will contribute to the further raising of the standard of living, economic growth and even more intense economic progress of our country. These bill proposals will allow for the relief of businesses through incentives that will allow it to be even more competitive and attractive, thereby further contributing to economic growth in 2019. I would just like to remind myself that in the first half of 2018, Serbia had an economic growth of 4.9%, which places us among the fastest growing economies in Europe. This trend will continue in 2019, and should also be reminded that not so long ago, more specifically in 2009, growth was negative, at minus 3.1% of GDP. Today, the main drivers of growth and development are sustainable sources of funding, exports and investments. Foreign investors are investing more and more in Serbia in the long term, foreign direct investment amounted to 1.2 billion euros in 2014, last year 2.6 billion euros, and by the end of this year it will be around 3 billion euros. All these are the results of a responsible policy led by the SNS, the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-05-0.u51333	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: I advertise the Rules of Procedure. Except nobody hurt the Rules of Procedure. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, let me ask you a question. We interrupt work. Tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., follow-up.
