ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32432	People's MPs, I invite you to pay our respects to the deceased MP Zoran Krasic for a moment of silence. May his eternal glory be, and thank you. Praise him. We continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 36 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32433	Thank you. My question goes first, unplanned, unfortunately, to the address of the Ministry of Defence and Minister Vulin. As far as, of course, this accident happened yesterday. The question is both a request and a request to deliver it to the public, but certainly also to me as a folk MP, a report and information on the investigation into the accident that took one and almost two lives of highly trained members of the Serbian Army, which is unfortunately not the first case of an accident of that kind. My particular question is: what are the estimates and reports and findings of the Ministry regarding responsibility for this, is it technical failure, technical failure, whether it's a human factor, although I don't believe it, because it's highly trained, capable officers or something else? After all, we were witnesses of our country, and the rest of the world to crash or crash planes, so the pilots were saved and catapulted. This is the case again that pilots get killed after catapulting. So, I'm also interested in the chain of responsibility, whether the Ministry and the Minister feel that there is responsibility for this accident, by vertical means, so from the top of the Ministry to the bottom, to those who were directly and directly responsible and in charge of that flight and for the permission of that flight. Accidents, of course, happen, but it takes everything to make them as small as possible, which is not the case. Speaking of the Ministry of Defence, I have one more appeal, although it is the same address – do they consider it appropriate to tolerate, but to one extent the highest and highest officials of the Ministry and contribute to an inappropriate and untasteful euphoria, when it comes to the purchase of military equipment, what is the important thing? Each state does it more or less and should do it, but not as it is done in our media and in our tabloids where every day some of the great procurements occur the most sophisticated, most valuable and expensive military equipment, and of which, ultimately, there is nothing or thing that lasts very long. Anyone serious who does any serious work, let alone the acquisition of such delicate equipment as military equipment, especially in today's circumstances and today's times, knows how complex it is, from organisational and technical, logistics to the political aspect that is always present, when it comes to large military procurement. In other words, I'd like those purchases to be talked less on the tabloids and less on it, and more on the real and concrete. In that sense, I would like to see what is of this highly sophisticated military equipment and to hear, it is no military secret, especially it should not be for one MP, what has been purchased in the last five years really and bought, in terms of realisation, from these military equipment, including planes, tanks and defense anti-aircraft systems. The next issue comes at the expense of the prime minister, or president of Serbia, and concerns these already kind of Spanish series or soap opera with so-called. A community of Serb municipalities. The latest statements by President Vukic, who said he knew there was no mention of Pristina institutions, i.e. Kosovo institutions and Kosovo legislation, when it comes to forming a community of Serb municipalities and also calls on President Vukic to mention documents that can be found on the government's website and on the Office for Kosovo and Metohija website. Unfortunately, these documents directly and explicitly state that the formation, in several places, will again, I regret to say, that the formation of a Serb municipality community will be in line, among other things, with Kosovo's legislation, that it will have to go to the Constitutional Court of Kosovo, and that in the whole document, I am now talking about the Brussels Agreement, in no place mentioning the government of Serbia, the state and the Republic of Serbia, and at least five places are mentioned, Pristina and the Kosovo institutions. Unfortunately, that's not true. I wonder how things are with other things that are less verifiable with the truthfulness of some of the other things we get from that address. Finally, I expect an answer from the prime minister – does he think it is time for Mr. Marko Djuric to rest, that is, because of everything that has happened to be withdrawn from the function he is performing?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32434	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32435	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask two questions. I refer the first question to the Ministry of Transport and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it refers to the fate of the Ceney airport near Novi Sad. In fact, these days we are witnessing a kind of war between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Nis about the fate of Nis Airport and in light of these events of the citizens of Novi Sad is interested in finally getting rid of, or finally equipping Cheney Sports Airport located near Novi Sad and when will it become a commercial airport for smaller passenger planes? To remind you, in 2012, an architectural project was carried out by which it took 2015 to start the construction of this commercial airport, however, none of it happened. The media then speculated that some 150m euros would be needed to implement the project. Three years ago, some businessmen who were interested in building a smaller airport building were mentioned for some 40 to 50 passengers and for building a 1,600-metre runway, but unfortunately nothing was done. Otherwise, this 1,600m runway and land since 1956 has been used by the "Aerob" Novi Sad, which is otherwise one of the oldest in Serbia. The desire is to build an airport that will be of regional importance, because we think, if Nis can do a great job, then Novi Sad would also have a favourable price to be suitable for this kind of traffic. In fact, Novi Sad, with its population of nearly 400,000 and a trend for a large number of citizens to gravitate in Novi Sad, would probably deserve to have this kind of complete airport. This airport should otherwise be returned to those activities it once had, to train and register aircraft, to deal with parachutes, sailing, flying training, modeling and modeling, where members of this club were once known. The resuscitation of this airport cannot be without the help of the state, because, apparently, neither the city of Novi Sad nor the province have the capacity to carry out these activities, although the sum of 150m euros is nothing compared to, say, the sum that would be allocated to "Belgrade on Water", and therefore I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Transport – is it planned to arrange and build Ceney Airport at Novi Sad for the needs of commercial flights? The second question I ask the Ministry of Finance and the post office of Serbia, about the fate of the unfinished Post Office building in the centre of Novi Sad. For years, the citizens of Novi Sad and all those who come to Novi Sad have been looking at the unfinished building of Post Office Savings in Theatre Square. Construction of the Post Office was launched in 1993 and investors were post office, Post Office Savings and Invest Home from Belgrade. The works have been suspended because of their unresolved ownership relations as well as the lack of funds for construction. Local authorities, referring to the law, under which each facility must be completed within two years, have launched a procedure to return the plot to the city. However, the first solution to take-off was made in 2006. It was filed with an appeal, in which Post and Post Office and Invest Home stated that the building was completed, but that the technical inspection of the building was not done because of the theft of the carpentry, according to it in 2004. The finance ministry, which is responsible, adopted the appeal and ordered artificially and artificially established that the building was not completed to the level that it could obtain the necessary permission and based on it, the city administration annulled the right to use land. But the investor complained and all that stands to this day. Searching the Internet for information about this facility, it comes into the eyes that the news is very old, actually back in 2010. The building doesn't end, it collapses, and it stands like a haunted tower in the center of Novi Sad. Given that this is not a city facility, I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Post Office of Serbia – who today is the investor of this facility, as long as this problem has been resolved and when will the facility finally be completed, that at last such a place in the centre of Novi Sad is not one ordinary mockery and unfinished building? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32436	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32437	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, I ask the first question to President Aleksandr Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. In light of what has happened in the past days and weeks, about the situation in Kosovo, so-called. the internal dialogue and all that we could hear in the previous days and weeks, the question is, do Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic even know what they signed in Brussels and what they accepted by signing the Brussels Agreement? At the very least, it acts very alarmingly when the president of the Republic of Serbia, who was one of the key people at the time, who said he slept on the floor in Brussels while it was being negotiated, said he did not say anywhere that the Serb municipality is forming under Kosovo's laws. So it's either very trendy or a desire to manipulate the public in some way, but this poses a serious threat to Serbian national interests. The Brussels Agreement in Article 4 which was signed, they signed it on 19 April 2013, with a clear definition in Article 4 that, in accordance with the powers conferred on the European Charter of Local Self-Government and Kosovo Law, municipalities will have the right to co-operate on collective implementation of powers with the Community of Serb municipalities. Furthermore, do they know that the signing of the Brussels Agreement actually accepted the legal system of independent Kosovo in northern Serbia? Do they know that since 2013 by signing the Brussels Agreement on 19 April, they have signed nine other agreements that have mainly been at Serbia's expense. The only ones who have signed in the Community of Serb municipalities have not been realised, and these are agreements on establishing permanent border crossings, the Energy Agreement, the agreement on telecommunications that we permanently gave Kosovo the calling number, the Justice Agreement, the Agreement on the Community of Serbian Municipalitys, and so on. So these are all documents signed at the expense of the Republic of Serbia and practically their signatures have accepted the legal system of independent Kosovo in the north. You need to make this perfectly clear to the citizens of Serbia, not to continue to spin, say, after six years of your rule and signing many agreements in Brussels, that someone else is responsible for this present situation when Serbia and its citizens both in Serbia and Kosovo are humiliated, when our people are being beaten, when there are units that are harassing our people, which have arisen just as a result of the signing of the Brussels Agreement. So, do they even know what they signed? However, I must admit that the Brussels Agreement was in English, at that moment it was signed by Ivica Dacic, perhaps he did not understand what it was all about, but Alexander Vukic, who speaks English well, should have warned him if he had good intentions what they actually signed. The next question I ask, I am asking Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and I am asking Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic - are they familiar with the activities of the President of the Republic that he has negotiated in New York with certain controversial lobbyists to provide services to the Republic of Serbia, or Alexander Vukic as president? It is about a certain Kori Levandolski, whom President Vukic asked to schedule, i.e. secure a telephone conversation with President Tramp. Are they aware of how much it costs? Where's that going to pay? Will the citizens of Serbia pay by funding such lobbyists from the budget, as we had the opportunity to see in the previous period when both Tony Blair and Shredder and Franco Frattini and Guzenbauer, the Clinton Foundation as the great friends of Serbs, as once said by the President of the Republic, today, or enemies have now suddenly become his friends. I ask the question - will this result in any interest in Serbia or, again, if it is not paid, will we be the victims of some practically economic damage to give back an economic resource such as giving, say, an airport, some other concession or anything in the interests of foreigners? All of these moves that we have seen, both in the case of Kosovo and with these advisers who are engaged by the President of the Republic and the current government, speak of the fact that the interest of national Serbia is in the second plan in relation to personal and political interest. They rule Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32438	Thanks, time. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32439	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and respected citizens who follow the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is assisted by God to all and Christ to Easter. There was no opportunity to congratulate all the citizens of Serbia on this great Christian holiday, but this is a universal Christian greeting that we can begin our meeting today. What I want to ask as a question this time is the responsibility of a minister without a portfolio for demographics and population policy, because I really think that the topic of solving the problem of white plague and family policy is the most important issue today. The minister is going on a very simple question -- in which direction does she as a resolutely in charge and the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole plan to help small towns in Serbia, our smaller municipalities, rural passive areas, and how do they even think they can keep the population there? Under 1), how do they solve the problem of the white plague that is there and how is present, how do they solve the problem of moving from small towns to larger cities, how do they keep young people in the country and how can life in the country in the 21st century be helped in the first place? So, how to help women living in the country, how to help socially endangered farmers living in the country, how to open new jobs in the country, because when we see the Government of the Republic of Serbia talking about opening new jobs, we see that they are always cities. I have not long heard that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has influenced the opening of new jobs in villages, that it has serious support for domestic agricultural production, according to the domestic agricultural machinery industry, to cooperative or food processing industry that should certainly be one of the most important development branches in our economy. So how is it specifically helped in the fight against the white plague and the eviction from the village of the smaller, border-passive parts of Serbia? Here to see on one case how dramatic this is, I'll only give you an example of the Luciani municipality and its demographic situation. So, 400 people less per year, 2,000 people less than five years, 4,000 less people on two lists, 10 years. When the Municipality of Luciani has 20,000 inhabitants, then you can imagine what it means when in 10 years it loses 4,000 inhabitants and you can easily calculate how many decades it will no longer exist in Serbia. It's a very dramatic situation. Every year, between 125 and 150 babies are born, and 400 residents die, especially young and highly educated, leave this municipality. By the way, the Municipality of Luciani is important because it has three important centers. One is the town of Luciani, which is an industrial centre, the other is Guca, known for the trumpet assembly as a catering and tourist centre and the third is Kotra, as one of the agricultural and trade centres of this municipality. How, therefore, such a municipality can be chosen by local self-government when the state does not provide adequate support, and when local authorities headed by the SNS and the SPS have no hearing of good opposition proposals. For four years, the Municipality of Luciani has avoided supporting the proposal of the Dveri parliamentary group to increase the amount of compensation for each of the next babies in the family, as well as to separate larger funds from out-of-body fertilisation. On the other hand, a family declaration has recently been proposed with a set of concrete family support measures by the Dveri parliamentary group in the Municipality of Luciana, and very interestingly, the municipal council adopted the Family Declaration proposal, and then the Assembly rejected the proposal for this family declaration with concrete family measures. Now you explain to me as a government how it is possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia supports population policy and that your local authorities refuse. Finally, the key question is why is the problem of the white plague addressed by the president of the state and not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is it really proof that we from Dvora who have criticised Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic so many times, that she has not achieved the result, that the president of the state himself had to engage and deal with the problem of population policy, and we have the competent ministry and the entire Serbian government? Finally, the president of the state had the opportunity for five years as prime minister to prove himself, we saw that he failed, and how does he now think from the position of the president of the state to solve the problem of the white plague if he did not resolve from the position of Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32440	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32441	My first question today was addressed to all Serbian government ministers, Prime Minister Ani Brnabic and Serbian President. It's a question of how it's possible that according to official information that can be found on the Internet, and this is not something that someone needs to specifically look for, because this is what the citizens have turned my attention to. According to data that could be accessed from the internet, right on election days, even after the Belgrade elections, how it is possible that when the number of residents is collected in all 17 municipalities in Belgrade, a number slightly smaller than the total number of eligible voters in the Belgrade elections is obtained. I think this is very strange, and the citizens were very surprised, and that's why some have come to me with a desire to ask a question like this, and they would like to get an explanation for it, especially considering that it's certain that not all citizens can have the right to vote, that is to say that about 17%, 18%, so it's estimated, that citizens, of course, are underage and that they can't still have the right to vote. How is it possible in this case that this number is less than the number entered in the voter list? Here I call on all ministers, prime ministers and presidents to get involved in this and try to get them together and see if this is true what the citizens have noticed? I refer the second question above all to Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, but also to all other ministers and Prime Ministers Ana Brnabic and Serbian President – when will they publish all contracts related to Nikola Tesla Airport for Constantin Velika Airport and Er Serbia? We witness daily that all these contracts that the public almost knows nothing about, which are very speculative and speculative, cause great public attention, even the protests, but this is not a question since yesterday. I personally belong to those who have been asking for these contracts to be published since 2014, and it has been promised many times that these data will be disclosed, but this has never happened. What is the need to speculate on various issues about what interests have led to the conclusion of these contracts, what motives have led to the conclusion of these contracts, to questions, and we have seen various speculations in the media, TV shows, etc., then whether or not restrictions on these airports, especially with the Norwegian airports, are they in favour of the Albanian airports of Tirana, Kukesh and so on? So you don't need to speculate on all this at all. We don't want to speculate. I am sure that if these contracts are favourable for the citizens of Serbia, and I am a personal witness and we all know that in every sentence Minister Mihajlovic mentions the syntagm – for the sake of Serbian citizens, so I hope the minister agrees that Serbian citizens deserve to know what is going on with airports and one and the other, and with "Er Serbia" our national air carrier? I hope that, in that sense, the Minister will advocate that this information is finally revealed and revealed, because if they are as good as she and the Prime Minister and the President are always telling us, for God's sakes, why don't you reveal them, so that we can all be thrilled when we see what these contracts look like. The next issue is for Culture Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic, but also for all other ministers, and this is also one issue that has been very speculative lately in public, and this is about funds in the Belgrade city's competition to support projects in culture. We could also hear a lot of things and read about the funds distributed in connection with this competition, there were a lot of objections to this. The objections were placed by the PEN Centre, the Association's independent cultural scene of Serbia, and everyone asked for these data to be transparently published because there are many doubts, or not, but it is certain that some of the funds were allocated to companies that were recently established. As I see time running out, I would just like to take advantage of it, I don't have time to ask everything I wanted, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, but also Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic and other ministers, prime minister and president - if it is so much work on population policy, how is it possible for professionals and mothers of three children, such as Bojana Ivanov Djordjevic and Draga Mihajlović Djapić to stay out of work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32442	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go, colleague Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32443	Dear Chairman, I ask the question to Minister Djordjevic, Minister for Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs. I am speaking on behalf of the Organization of Persons with Disabilities of the King, and in view of the adoption of a law on organisations of persons with disabilities, which has been the working group for years, but this law, in my opinion, has not been spoken publicly enough. This issue is interested in over 500 organizations that gather and work with more than 800,000 people with disabilities in our country and even more members of their families. The law should allow legal certainty and permanent sustainability of representative organisations with disabilities which, due to financial problems and unregulated legal status, face the problem of survival and the need to abolish some of the existing services provided to their members because of high material costs. Also, the additional need for this law is the fact that the survival of these organisations depends on the will of local self-government units, in terms of how the work of organisations will be financed, and due to differences in the economic development of cities and municipalities, but also political will, there is a gap in the work and status of organisations. The fact is that disabled organisations need a concrete legal act because they would thus create direct conditions to improve the situation and rights of disabled people in our country. Addressing the legal status of these organisations is in line with the reform process of improving social protection in Serbia, and this would also create preconditions for the development of services and social protection systems, as well as addressing many issues of importance for better quality of life for citizens and citizens with disabilities. So, my particular question, Minister Djordjevic, is when will the bill on the organisations of persons with disabilities be found in the assembly procedure, because we in Unity of Serbia feel that the adoption of this law is of great importance for the further work and survival of these organisations, and that is why it is essential for a better position of persons with disabilities in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32444	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32445	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic. My first question is did they ever hear that yesterday Vojislav Seselj was sentenced by the rest of The Hague tribunal? They may be uninformed, even though it wouldn't be any particular excuse, but I think it's even worse if they'd been notified and heard, they had to hear and they were obliged to hear about it, and they didn't. You know, it is inadmissible that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have not only done anything to ensure that the citizen of this country, Dr Vojislav Seselj, is not convicted in The Hague tribunal, and have done in particular the previous governments of the Republic of Serbia much to be convicted, but it is also unacceptable that they do not react in any way in such a condemnation. The conviction, as well as previous sentences by The Hague tribunal and previous verdicts, and even those liberating, is not directed against the individual, but above all against the Republic of Serbia and against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On Vojislav Seselj himself, the verdict will not have any particular fact, but it will have in the Republic of Serbia. This verdict is obviously against the law, because according to the Anglo-Saxon system, it was not possible to partially abolish and transform the first degree of acquittal. It is obviously not based on facts, but I am sure it will have consequences for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Why? This verdict condemning Vojislav Seselj for war crimes, i.e. to encourage non-war crimes, implies that there was war in Serbia and Vojvodina, that there was war conflict, that there were warring parties, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that this is not the case. The ones they're getting, I call for a word, and they say what they've got. It is easy to hate Serbia and you, gentlemen of the DS, are persistently proving it and because of your political inferiority and sterility you are ready to say anything against your country or any of its citizens, trying to get yourself some cheap political point. No one has been deported from the Republic of Serbia, no Croats, no other national citizens. No one's been expelled. Those who have left have left voluntarily, because they have changed property with Serbs who were expelled from the former Yugoslav Republic of Croatia, certified contracts in court with Serbs who were expelled in 1989, 1990 and 1991, long before Vojislav Seselj gave a pre-election speech in Hrtkovci, and that is the speech behind which Vojislav Seselj and SRS stands still today and we are prepared to say that we should repeat it anywhere, because there is no war crime there is no crime. No one here has ever been praised by the head hair at that rally and you know it well, but you are ready to repeat lies from which even The Hague tribunal has given up. Read their verdict. And they gave up the lies which ye tell this day, that, God forbid, Vojislav Seselj sought to kill the children of mixed marriages or read some names. All this has been demonstrated by the UN tribunal that it is not true, your The Hague tribunal, but could not bear to have some Serb come out and be freed before The Hague tribunal. Only a fool can't see that this verdict is directed against Serbia. Vojislav Seselj is a free man and there is nothing you, his political enemies from Serbia, or those from the West can do to him. He won the UN tribunal and it is a done deal and a historical fact, but we are asking for an answer from the president of Serbia, the Prime Minister of Serbia and the minister of justice -- what is their reaction, what will they do about the conviction and what is their position?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32446	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32447	Thank you, Vice President. My question concerns the situation in which the City of Novi Sad is located, and it is addressed to Minister Branko Ružić, Minister Dusan Vujovic, and I would also tell Ana Brnabic, so which of the three find it appropriate to answer, but indeed to answer, rather than the last time I asked a similar question, to declare himself incompetent or something like that. In fact, some citizens of Novi Sad know, and many will soon learn that Novi Sad is facing several hundred different lawsuits, whose total value exceeds the New Sad budget in a year and if, at least in the part of these lawsuits, Novi Sad loses these litigation disputes, it is obvious that the functioning of the city will be brought into question, and of course those judicial penalties, and lost litigation, and the mistakes of the city authorities will not pay those who have made them out of their budget, nor will the Government of the Republic of Serbia out of their pocket, nor will those city leaders who are responsible for those mistakes be responsible from their private pocket, but all these lost lawsuits and all those lost processes that are being financed against the city of Novi Sad, which means that there will be fewer schools, less help, less anything that makes life in Novi Sad a quality and obviously affect the quality of their life. Of course, many are known, I am sorry that the president of the assembly has left. Most of these funds, totalling more than 26 billion dinars, are sought by Ilija Devic in the process of ATP Vojvodina, very well known to our president, since the contract with Ilija Devic was concluded just at the time she was the Mayor of Novi Sad and that the Casation Court ruled in its 2013 ruling that Maja Gojkovic, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, knew very well that she was doing the illicit thing, that she was making a contract that was harmful to the city of Novi Sad, was equally harmful to the burden of mayors and Ilija Devic, for which he was fortunately getting only half of what she was looking for. However, the bad news for citizens is that in those processes that have led against the city that have already reached a court decision, some of them have already been executed and some of them have already had funds removed from the city's accounts. The process has been obtained, which leads us to conclude that it is very possible that at least some of the processes, which leads against the city, will be obtained. Besides, there are 340 lawsuits against the town of Novi Sad. In 75, it has already been ruled against the town of Novi Sad in total worth of a billion 440 million and 986 dinars and 25,359 euros, when the city government in Novi Sad without an expropriation procedure paved the courtyards with certain fellow citizens, who are suing the city. Our mayor treats the problem rather unscheduledly, insulting citizens who sue the city for being paved by the courtyard without any compensation. The less he takes care of how he will pay and my question is the ones I listed at the beginning is, since it is obvious that the town of Novi Sad is not taking care of how it will finance it, is the government of the Republic of Serbia familiar with these processes against the city? Is there a plan to help the city's budget, which will obviously be the first time in a situation that has to be helped by its budget or will the citizens of Novi Sad bear absolutely all the costs and pay absolutely all the mistakes of Maja Gojkovic and Milos Vučevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32448	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32449	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, using parliamentary law, I refer the first question to the Minister of Education, Mr Sarčević, and it refers to the enrollment of a new generation of students in the coming year. Namely, our graduates remained just over a month until they gained a degree in high school education. A significant number of them will continue their education at one of our colleges or higher schools of vocational studies. All of us high-school employees, with great care, follow the Ministry's entry policy and prepare for June to welcome a new generation of students. For us, it is, no doubt, one of the most important tasks of the year. It is clear that the university community expects the proposal on registration quotas, which took place since the university, to be adopted by the ministry. With this in mind, I would like to ask the next question – is the ministry planning to change this or perhaps from next year's approach to creating a registration policy? I realize this is important, given that we are witnessing a major expansion of newly established universities and accredited study programmes after 2000. For example, in 2000, we had a total of 86 colleges. After only ten years, the number of colleges has increased almost 2.5 times. The number of accredited study programmes has also been increased. For example, in 2012, we had a total of 1,281 accredited study programmes in academic studies and 402 in vocational studies. Also, the number of places for enrolment of new students and mentioned in 2012 was also increased, with 64,560 new places for enrolment of new students, and after the entry was completed, the total fill-up of available places was around 66%. Since new colleges and accredited new study programmes have also been established in the last few years, my question is for the ministry – how many colleges of higher education and study programmes are currently accredited, i.e. How many available places can be counted for enrolment of new students next year? Also, I want to know how many high school graduates we currently have in high school, who are potential school students 2018/2019. A year? I am asking this because all the analyses point to a major demographic decline and that the prospects in the number of candidates for higher education in the coming years are worrying, which is why some experts warn that specific problems may arise in certain areas of work. That is understandable, given the data on the number of newborns on an annual basis. For example, in 1985, the number of newborns was 101,938, and in 2016 64,734, a decrease of about 37%. So it is clear that from year to year we have had fewer and fewer children born and more accredited study programs and places to enroll new students. On the other hand, I would also like to say that as far as the structure of education profiles that are being trained in our colleges is concerned, it is very important to adapt to the needs of the economy, so that our young people, after completing schooling, can find work as quickly as possible in the profession. In this regard, I would also like to ask the Minister for Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs, and the question is: is the implementation of the employment and attractment policies of foreign investment and the structure of the unemployed, which are recorded at the National Employment Service and on their educational profiles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32450	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32451	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first expect the apology of Gjorge Vukadinovic, called Djoko Vlah, for today's statement calling the Serb community "sapun". It's not soap for me, especially for those people who live downstairs in the conditions they live in, especially after the March pogrom, who he looked down like that with Kostunica. Number two. I expect him to apologize for trying to exploit the death of the pilot, whose family I extend my condolences to, as well as the Krasic family. That kind of political behavior is not allowed, so before yesterday, a plane crashed in Algeria, where there were 246 victims, a military plane, and no one in Algeria would think of calling the government of Algeria or exploiting that kind of accident. Furthermore, my question to the government of the Republic of Serbia concerns Mr. Zigmanov, an MP from the DS Parliament Club, what will the state do about his statement, and I do not expect the apology of this club, which he gave yesterday, that the state structures were behind the crime in Hrtkovci and that 25 Croats were killed in that period in 1991 and 35,000 Croatians were expelled from Serbia? Without condemning an individual, I ask the state – what will they do about this, or to deliver me a list of 25 dead Croats? Number two, I ask the state to check and deliver the answer – are the Croats who are reportedly expelled now in the houses of the exiled Serbs in Croatia? It is easy to determine whether there was a replacement of houses, real estate or any persecution. So, to provide me with information on whether Croats live in the house of exiled Serbs, or Serbs in houses they replaced in Vojvodina. Since I live in Srem, I claim that Vojislav Seselj could only be held responsible for a verbal delinquent, which was abolished. So there was no crime there. Have Mr. Zigmanov show me and his election list, show me a column of tractors and the vows of exiled Croats from Vojvodina, or Serbia. My fellow Members, especially you of the opposition who seem to hate the state of Serbia more than the authorities, must be aware that the verdicts made look like this. Since Gotovina, Markac and Cermak were released, it now appears this way that after yesterday's verdict the Serbs expelled the Croats from Serbia and that the Croats did not banish 250,000 in the Storm alone, a total of 400,000 Serbs from Croatia. That's what it looks like. It seems that Serbs have expelled themselves from Croatia and Croatia from Serbia. That's inadmissible about the state. Which later repercussions might be, I can't know exactly. Most of the time, I want to see that tractor column, I want to see that list, because other than Miat Stepanec, who died in a bar fight in Krutkovci, there is no other dead Croat. That's what I'm responsible for. I'm looking for a list of those 25 allegedly murdered Croats. Number two, this is Storm, I can read you names, 1852 killed and missing, only from Storm, 543 of which women, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, so I expect an apology from both Mr. Zigmanov and you, the older 908, almost 50%, from 1852. Finally, those who participate in the Nis demonstrations I ask, since the state of Serbia has given 50 million for the Clinical Center of Serbia, 100 million for the bypass, 5.5 billion for the Army and the City of Nis, I ask them since the state is investing and since the state is treating the city of Nis as its part, I ask the protesters... (President: Thank you. Wait till I'm done. ... including Mr. Ciric and Zivkovic – do they see Serbia as their part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32452	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32453	Dear Vice President, my question will be addressed to the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia concerning the work of the anti-state action of Vuk Jeremic. While he was the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, Vuk Jeremic inflicted indiscriminate damage on Serbia, the consequences of which would be removed by many young generations coming. Vuk Jeremic was a Serb in 2008, i.e. To the entire domestic public, he framed Mission Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija by presenting it to the UN mission and thus stabbing the back, not only Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but also to the whole state of Serbia. Vuk Jeremic did so on his own, despite the political unity being achieved that the Republic of Serbia will not accept Ahtisaari's plan and that negotiations are being conducted with UN representatives rather than with EU representatives. In the spring of 2007, a political scandal broke out when it became known that there was an external political team of representatives of the Republic of Serbia under the leadership of Vuk Jeremic, who led the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. When the so-called so-called so-called so-called February 17, 2008. Kosovo and Metohija independence, diplomacy by Vuk Jeremic has not taken any effective action against Kosovo and Metohija's independence, although the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has declared Kosovo's decision on the independence of the fake state unconstitutional. Vuk Jeremic failed to press charges before the International Court of Justice against every single state that has recognised the so-called state on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, whose sovereignty and territorial integrity are guaranteed by the UN Charter. Kosovo and Metohija independence in Serbian territory. He failed to request an emergency session of the UN Security Council for violation of the UN Charter. He, respected citizens, gave up funds to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of his own country. With that in mind, the undeniable issue, Vuk Jeremic, Serbia's sovereignty before the UN General Assembly's General Assembly's General Committee, has for the first time made a controversial motion for a resolution seeking the International Court's opinion. Is there any element of criminal prosecution against Vuk Jeremic for his actions? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I spoke two days ago about the media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, his family and his associates: Aleksandr Martinovic, Maja Gojkovic. I was saying that she joined the N1 CIA TV and journalists, such as Cvjetin Milivojevic, Olja Bećković and, a great professor, Dr. Serbia's Turajlic von Soros. They insulted the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and his associates Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, Dr Orlic, representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs and president Maja Gojkovic, all SNS MPs, voters and all SNS voters in the most ground-based, most primitive, most brutal way of untrue. So they told Alexander Vukic that he would rule for the rest of his life and that he was ready for anything. Dear gentlemen of the press, the government will do so long as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will. For National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, Professor Turajlic said, I quote, that she is lying, rude, that there is nothing human in her, that she is rough, ready for anything. For SNS voters and voters, their MPs and SNS leadership, charlatan analyst Cvjetin Milivojevic said they were donkeys. I recommend that Dr. Turajlić von Soros put all the abominations she has caused and framed into her living room, hang on to the wall, to remind herself of her democratic and civilizational culture all her life. Furthermore, individual opposition MPs, such as representatives of political groups or parties, starting with Mr. Bosko Obradovic... (President: Thank you, Professor. Let me just finish my sentence. ... Boris Tadic was blamed by Alexander Vukic and Mark Djuric for brutal beatings, not Albanians, even Rahim Pecolli said a fight was being prepared, etc. This puts them on the other side and shows their patriotic act towards the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32454	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to welcome our guests: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of Interior, and Minister of Labour, Social Policy and Combat Affairs Mr Zoran Djordjevic and his associates. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Are any of the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32455	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministries, we have today a proposal for a united debate on a number of legislative proposals, it is very interesting that a significant number of them entered the procedure on 5 April, on the same day that the government adopted them and by urgent procedure today we should discuss very important topics which, as a direct consequence of their adoption, have the lives of citizens in Serbia and the further path of the Republic of Serbia. It is also more than interesting that this is not the first time that we have discussed such important laws in an urgent procedure, and especially that this is happening in a united debate, with the goal that the opposition has as little time to devote itself to these laws and, of course, that citizens hear as little about the truth as possible about what is in these legal proposals. What is also something that draws particular attention to is that the first six legislative proposals refer to something that has been the subject of previous months, weeks and days, and related to putting the Republic of Serbia on the FATF blacklist, an Intergovernmental Organisation that is fighting against terrorist financing and money laundering. So, as we could hear on the Finance Committee from Mr. Secretary of State, these laws are exclusively passed with the aim of practically applying those provisions adopted by the FATF as rules back in 2012. We had a chance to hear from the prime minister that the fact that the FATF put in its report no longer reflects the real situation. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, for the sake of truth in which the Republic of Serbia is classified. To society with high-risk countries. Besides Serbia, there is also North Korea, Ethiopia, Syria, Iraq, Iran, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Yemen. So Serbia is the only country in Europe to find itself on the negative, black FATF list. The only one in Europe. Worse still, six years ago, the FATF adopted criteria and in fact brought in all international standards to be applied in the international fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. For six years, your authority, your various governments, have not been able to apply, adopt any of these international standards or a very small number of them. Of course, it did not bother the prime minister to deceive the citizens of Serbia most, and she says it is not true, we are on that list because a powerful country has asked for it, we have fulfilled the largest number of those provisions. If that's the case, then why do we adopt all these laws by an emergency procedure? Why do we have six laws today on the agenda of an emergency procedure, which concerns only the fact that Serbia is on the blacklist today, as a marked country suitable for money laundering and financing international terrorism. Also, some of the problems affecting countries on the list are tax evasion, inability to control money flows, money laundering from drug trafficking and trafficking, offshore businesses, and all of this is directly related to two main chapters 23 and 24 in the areas of the fight against crime and organised terrorism. So I have no other explanation why this hasn't happened in six years. It is likely that the interior minister will give me an answer, except that the regime has benefited in six years from Serbia being among the most attractive destinations for money laundering, financing international terrorism, and that explains the fact that the level of corruption in Serbia has reached endemic conditions today. All your story in 2014 that you will enter into a ruthless fight against corruption, that you will punish all those who have sinned in Serbia for corrupting actions, that you will tear all criminal groups apart, that you will bring order to Serbia, that we today are the only country in Europe that is on this list and that we have to do something urgent today to show as much as possible that some reforms are being implemented in Serbia. There's no reform. Since 2012, you have been talking about reforms in all areas of society and all sectors of this country, but unfortunately they are lagging behind. They are not just missing in the part of corruption and various other problematic things, so today we have problematic investments such as various Arab investments from Beograd on Water, such as investments and concessions for Nikola Tesla Airport, such as investments by Arab companies to which you give orans fertile in Vojvodina. We also don't have an answer to the key problems, actually big topics – what was it, who crashed the facilities in "Savamali", what about the problem of Vulin's aunt who gave him 200,000 euros for the apartment, for that to be answered? We have no answer – what about 24 apartments of Sinisha the Little and various of his possessions? We have a case that was released from the largest drug dealer, designated by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, Cosmajac. It's not the man's fault. He was just part of one propaganda. We also have the releases of Canet Subotic and many others that you have carried out during your six years of rule. Not that there is no fight against corruption, but corruption is growing stronger, the growing root is releasing, only that you have centralised it and perfected it to the detriment of Serbian citizens. It is the citizens of Serbia who are to suffer while the government today is through various corrupt models of domestic and state interest in Serbia for its own personal benefit and survival in power. So, as far as this topic is concerned, I think it is quite clear and that citizens should know that Serbia has been in the company of these countries that I counted that the only country in Europe has not met any of the international standards or very little, to be more accurate, those who have been recommended and that today we need to urgently discuss these topics. As for the Tax and Tax Act, which is also here today on the agenda, and it is one of the laws that also has to do with this provision. Let me remind you that this is the ninth change to the Tax, Tax Procedure and Administration Act since 2012. If I'm wrong, I'd like you to correct me. Since 2012, you've changed the same law for the ninth time, gentlemen. Five times in the term of office of Minister Vujovic. Where is it in a serious state, in a serious country? It's because of what you're adopting by emergency procedure, overnight, that you're putting up with hundreds and thousands of phantom amendments to avoid the debate, because you're unprepared for going in, because you don't have a strategy, because you don't know what you're supposed to do. You change laws year after year. The law depends on the lives of Serbian citizens, the business of businessmen depends. You are changing it for the fifth time in Mr Vujovic's term, the ninth time since 2012. Why didn't you propose a new bill? Wasn't that more normal? If this law cannot respond today to the requirements of Serbia, its citizens and its businessmen, foreign investors, so let's make a new law, propose a new law. Go to the citizens and MPs with a new law, not just to go to new and new changes, in an urgent procedure. This time because Serbia is on the FATF's blacklist to finance international terrorism and tax evasion and money laundering. So it's completely pointless to talk more about a law that has so many changes. As far as the Excise Act is concerned, it is very interesting for you to provide for this law to abolish the excise duty on liquid oil gas, which you have introduced, when it comes to the use of this heating energy. So, you changed the law some time ago, a few years ago, and you said you'd be paying for excise duty and if liquid oil gas was used for heating purposes, that is, as energy. You admit to a mistake today and re-emerge to liquid oil gas. So that's what it says about the completely demented policy of this government, that you don't know what you're doing, that you're playing with the state, that you're playing with the laws, that you're playing with the MPs and that you think it's just enough to hear the bells, lift two fingers, that something is adopted and that you're done with your job. Yes, you've done that, you've received salary as MPs, as ministers, as various workers in the administration of central government, but what are the consequences -- here, let's play, to change the laws every six months or every year. Also, in this bill of excise duty, you didn't do one important thing, so why didn't you lift the excise on diesel fuel for farmers? Should farmers today pay for the most expensive fuel in the region and Europe? That we don't have incentives for agriculture, but to pay the same price of diesel fuel as someone who pours it in the jeep? Is that right? Is that how the government thinks about how to help farmers? I'm talking about the development of agriculture. How? By introducing them with a growing and greater load? In this proposal of the Excise Act, there is no such thing as no green diesel, which you've been announcing for years. Here, the Minister of Agriculture has repeatedly spoken of this being on the agenda. Why isn't he here? So it's also one of the important topics that you need to give an answer to, but it's not in the sphere of your interest, because it's not really about what's personal interest and the propaganda you're conducting as a ruling party. Next, as far as new borrowing is concerned, it's a special subject. In fact, we have here today and a bill of new borrowing. Eightym euros are due for Serbian citizens to be in charge of building windmen in Kostolc. A few days ago we heard from the EPS director that at this point, the EPS has 450m euros in its account, so I'd like you to tell me who normally is in charge of the new 80m euros, if there are 450 million in their account? Why is Serbia still in debt if we have so many good economic results, which you have been talking about for six years? They're probably just good in your pockets, because your citizens' pockets are getting emptyer and yours are getting fuller. It's clear to me why you're telling me there's a great economic situation in Serbia, but look how little it's in the pockets of Serbian citizens. From this economic state of play, perfect economic growth, full of cash, surpluses in the budget, we have today again on the agenda that we need to adopt a new task, or you, and you will adopt it. The new 80m euros, and for what, to build a windmill in Kostolc. In the agreement, it is very interesting that a million euros are forecasted for consulting services to be non-refundable, as part of a project to build windmen. I ask the question – why would the citizens of the Republic of Serbia give some million euros for consulting services if we had a professional headed by the Republic of Serbia? Well, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is probably the biggest vertopark expert in Serbia. Why are we giving a million euros to someone else today, if she could do it for free? I will remind you that in the 2015 affair, Mrs. Ana Brnabic was the director of the company "Continental Wine", which was supposed to raise wind parks in Serbia, that at that time in the affair, in which the then-indicator of the "Electro Network of Serbia" Nikola Petrovic was accused, that she had sought bribes from two million euros to the company "Continental Wine", she stood in the Dobra Nikola Petrovic at a press conference together with Minister Antic, and after that she received the post of minister, and immediately after that, the prime minister. She probably also deserved this work because she sacrificed her company's interests to protect corrupt actions, blackmails and rackets sought by the wind-parking company, which should be told publicly to the citizens of Serbia, and today let her, as an expert, deal with this topic. She was even president of the association of companies dealing with "green energy" and the construction of wind parks in Serbia. Therefore, I find it absolutely unnecessary to give new millions of euros for consulting services irrevocably, and not to mention that it is unnecessarily necessary to give the EPS a new debt to the citizens of Serbia for the new 80m euros, if you are already saying that the EPS is doing so profitablely. Also, when you talk about how the EPS works, I'll remind you that you're taking this loan from KfW today. KfW controls both projects and money flows. I am not sure that someone who owned the roaster would be able to respond to all these demands before becoming the director of Serbia's largest public enterprise, the third year in a row in V.D. condition. Two years have passed since the EPS director's appointment contest was called, it has not been completed yet. Why? Because the director of a roaster in no normal state can be the director of an EPS. So today we have a situation that has never been less unearthed, that the work of TENT thermoblocks works with 50% capacity and that in the previous half of the year they have practically worked at a technical minimum with carbon deficiency. Instruction and your partocracy destroys all pores, all institutions and the system of the Republic of Serbia. The moment you're ready to hire professional people to do certain jobs in this country, at the moment you can talk about institutions, you can talk about reforms, but you don't want to. You need half-trons and you need those who will nod their heads and implement political decisions in order to propaganda that this regime has been implementing for six years. Six years of one senseless propaganda, senseless lies on the subject of better life, Serbia's development, solving the fight against corruption, crime, and it's all a fairy tale that you want to present to citizens through incredible and unprecedented media control, because that's the only way you can represent yourself that you're successful and that you're doing some jobs. The last law I want to talk about is the Law on the Organization of the Assembly, or the Systematization of the National Assembly, and I think it's just as important as these others. You see for yourself what Parliament has become. Therefore, do not blame the opposition that is even smaller, which has less time to address and which is absolutely subordinated by all the chairmanships in relation to the ruling regime and the ruling parties. So the assembly has lost its meaning, this is no longer the most legislative body, this is slowly turning into a circus. These amendments that you have introduced as a whole new practice where you endure hundreds, thousands of amendments, in order to prevent the debate on these laws talking about how you have something to hide, that the MPs of the opposition are making warnings about everything and it is not,... (President: Go back to the topic, colleague Alexic.) I'm talking about the topic of the National Assembly, it's actually about you wanting to shut up and get the opposition out of the O.R. You're doing well, and I have to tell you that I'm one of the people who thinks I should leave the gym, and I just said it last time, and you're sitting here all by yourself, talking about whatever you want, clapping, shouting, doing whatever you want, but it's not the Assembly, it's not democracy, it's the abolition of democracy. You want to end democracy. If you want to normalize your work in this Assembly, give the same arches to each other, give the possibility of a normal dialogue, give the possibility of a normal debate, do not submit these pointless amendments and try to resolve, to introduce the system into the work of this home. Don't humiliate him, because he was never more humiliated than he is today, during this term and during the chairmanship of Maja Gojkovic. As far as Maja Gojkovic is not capable of introducing order...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32456	My colleague Alexic, please, indeed the President of Parliament has nothing to do with this topic of the agenda and it is not the subject, we are not discussing the President of Parliament. Please, you've been talking for 18 minutes, right? You mentioned everything, from the president of the state to the cabinet ministers in parliament, and you say it's not democracy. Then you begin to insult the President of Parliament. Just please, it's not your manners, you end up in a democratic tone. Thank you. Sign up again, just sign up one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32457	Thank you. So don't worry, all this stuff I've been saying, and how my colleagues are going to answer me now, and by the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and by the replicas, etc. There will be much more personal insults than I could have imagined, but I am talking about the National Assembly and its dignity. We have here on the agenda the systematization of the National Assembly, we have had this situation and with the secretary and problems with the Secretary General of the National Assembly, we have had problems and with the submission of the bill by the opposition, where a session is called for in a minute to ten, so that we are prevented from applying, etc. All of this, one by one, affects the picture of the parliament that we send and broadcast to the citizens of Serbia, the people whose interests we should represent, the people we should be responsible for. Unfortunately, there is much greater responsibility here for political parties, some personal interests, than for the citizens of Serbia, but there will come a moment when and how Serbian citizens will recognise and regain consciousness from this media propaganda of what this regime is doing and what it has done to them in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32458	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Alexic usually deceives the public. Yesterday, N1 and RTS did so, wishing to portray these sad remains of the Serbian opposition as some martyrs, whom Maja Gojkovic did not give, or did not allow the quorum to be established. Now I'm going to give you official information regarding yesterday's events. So, Marko Djurisic received a warning at 10 o'clock and 53 minutes on the agenda, i.e. when the draft law on supplements of the Criminal Code was put to the vote, which the DS has been breaking our brains since September 2016, which Balša Bozovic submitted. Now imagine who's giving us lectures on who turns the National Assembly into a circus. So, Balša Bozovic, MP of the DS, proposes a law on additions to the Criminal Code and says it is very important for the state, that we are villains because we do not adopt this bill, and Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ćirić, says - they did not vote in favour of the bill. That's one thing. The second thing, Marko Djurisic, was insulting Mrs. Maja Gojkovic yesterday in the worst possible way, with a dictionary that is not suitable even for cafes located on the Ibari Master's Office. You who talk about how there was no quorum, yesterday anyone who followed the session of the National Assembly could see that at the time that Marko Djurisic insulted Maja Gojkovic, there were 149 MPs present in the hall, which was not present from this so-called. The democratic, European and civil opposition, a total of 45 MPs. So, you were gone and you weren't here today, and SNS MPs are sitting here today, just like they did yesterday, and you can be counted on the fingers of one hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32460	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go, Dr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that there are, unfortunately, some MPs here, a lot of misunderstandings on the agenda of matter, especially a lack of understanding of the relationship between FATF and some of the laws, e.g. The plan system law and tax administration have nothing to do with FATF, but absolutely nothing. So look at all the ten remarks FATF made on Serbia's action plans. You will see that none applies to these two laws – the Tax Administration Act, first of all, is changing and will maybe change even 190 times and it is nothing controversial. It's called progress. When you have an improvement in e-business, when you have a ease of communication with citizens between tax entities and tax administrations, new electronic communications mechanisms, when you have the possibility of giving extended grace periods and the possibility that taxpayers, when based on tax administration decisions, decide that disproportionate burden is on that taxpayer, can be granted a grace period of 12 months. So, when the tax administration works, it allows for the delivery of tax acts by electronic means. So he's working on improving his operation. This has nothing to do with the FATF, in particular, but it has to do with improving the work of the Tax Administration itself and it has to do with making it easier for taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia to be able to make it easier for them to communicate better with the Tax Administration, but it also provides some new services through a set of these laws, new services that the Tax Administration can provide to tax users, such as the legal assistance mechanism and in various other ways to help Serbian citizens to achieve their tax rights, and not just their tax obligations. I repeat, there's nothing to do with the FATF. As far as the EPS is concerned. I'm going to go about how I remembered what you said, and I don't think it's appropriate to use language to talk about people who work in the EPS. The results will talk about each and every one of us. Whether it was this or what it was in life, it's important what it can do. What I'm saying is, when you look at the first quarter of this year, as far as electricity production is concerned, electricity production is now 11.3% higher than in the first quarter of the previous year. Carbon production, compared to last year's record year, is 4.1% higher than the previous year. I can tell you that I've been a guest many times, I've had a chance to be on the surface spears of the Colubara. I also had a chance to talk to the union presidents and the EPS and the Kolubara, besides the management, so to those people who take care of the unions. I talked to them, and I saw how difficult their lives are, how hard they are working, but how dedicated they are that after the catastrophic floods of 2014, when there were millions of cubic metres of water and when Serbia succeeded, in addition to the suspicion that many people would be able to pump it up, not only to pump it up, but to recover, after three or four months of production already in one volume, in order to last year's huge work of miners and, of course, by large pawns in the EPS, we managed to raise that production to a record level. Today, this production is at a better level, so compared to the record year before. We have good indicators in coal production and overall and good hydrology for electricity production. As far as agriculture is concerned, subsidies are given through, you have the Agriculture Act that defines it, and of course through the Agrarian Payments Administration, a much better defined way. We have, for the first time, two or three years in a row to increase the money in absolute budget in terms of subsidies in agriculture. Why is that good now? Now it's good because we've been targeting farmers to get it, not to get tycoons, not to get those who want to pour, the fuel they get for agriculture, to pour it into other means of transport and drive it. We now have defined that the fuel that is subsidized gets those people who really use it in agricultural production. So, farmers, this isn't treated by these laws, these other laws that define, and now you have the biggest procedure in money, so the largest amount of money you're going to get in the last few years where farmers will be able to use it. So you can't say that the state doesn't take care, absolutely takes care of. As far as FATF is concerned. It is true that Serbia has not met certain standards required, but far from calling Serbia a country that participates in money laundering or terrorist financing in any way. On the contrary, Serbia is also praised through the operation of its security authorities, part of a coalition that is fighting terrorism around the world. So FATF is one, I'd say, quite a rigid institution that defines certain regulations the way she sees it. Let's say, the real property register. We are now working on meeting certain conditions regarding meeting the conditions that the FATF defines. In the register of real ownership, Serbia has, for example, through the APR, through the Ministry of Business and through the Tax Administration, registers of company ownership in the Republic of Serbia, certain data concerning both owners and companies and the FIB and everything else, but the FATF defines the register of real ownership in a different way. We are now through the law, which will define the first register of real property, how it will be, even for society, there are dilemmas for one-member societies where there is a member of society with a percentage of ownership, whether it is treated and how it is treated, how we will put it in the register and whether, since the FATF insists on possible related persons. The United States sees it one way, Europe looks at it another way, I've led our delegation to France, I've talked to people who are in ICG and FATF. So, I've seen what they're asking of Serbia and it's very often right, I don't say, we've committed ourselves to meeting these conditions and we will meet these conditions. I mean, it's not that Serbia hasn't done anything, so we have some completely opposite and nakaradic system, no, it's just not in line with those procedures that the FATF requires and are not all the obligations of the state authorities. There are obligations of independent regulatory bodies, chambers, such as the Chamber of Public Records, such as the Bar Association. We started talking to these people, very well, I think. I think they understood very well, that they were working well on it and that the fact system of control and law offices and public records and casinos, which are in fact working together to prevent money laundering and the Tax Administration, that this will produce results and that we will have one system that will show that it is efficient. As for what Serbia is among the leading certainly in the region, and beyond that, it is certainly the number of criminal and final convictions, the number of criminal proceedings and final convictions to prevent money laundering. In total, we had 45 perpetrators and 30 criminal acts of money laundering in 2017, while in fact we discovered 19 crimes of money laundering and 27 perpetrators in December, and in the first three months of 2018, seven crimes of money laundering and 11 perpetrators were processed. So a significant increase from all previous years back. We also had independent pieces of money laundering, we had pieces of money laundering with the perpetrators where a predicate crime was committed abroad, specifically in Italy. We have made serious progress in the fight against money laundering, certainly organised crime, and no one is slowing it down, it is seen through the evaluations for Chapter 24, which has been assessed as very good and that Serbia has made significant progress. We have good results in that. Whether there are room to improve, certainly there are. But not all of those countries would seek Serbia's co-operation. Look at international co-operation, with the prosecutor's authorities, in joint investigation bodies, in joint co-operation between the prosecution and the police. Look at Serbia's level of co-operation today and five or six years ago. Take a look at the level of progress and results – drug confiscation, the number of drug labs discovered, the number of arrested and convicted and convicted members of organised groups both abroad and abroad, you will see that Serbia is fulfilling, or is doing, these conditions are extremely good. I want to tell you that I think there's room to fix everything we've talked about in front of both the FATF and everything they've given us as recommendations to meet and we're working on it. I am convinced that by June we will fill in most of the remarks or almost all the objections that the FATF has made and these are not objections that prevent our system from fighting corruption and money laundering, but certainly that after meeting these remarks, our system will be more efficient. A set of laws that are before us will allow for more effective control, a different way of working. When we get to the casinos, this is where we face issues concerning and control the work of casinos, let's say, in electronic terms, business on the Internet, business in other countries. These are not easy questions that many other countries have given answers to, it is a complex problem, how to control the gambling that takes place in a third country, and they are carried out through your country's provider. It's hard to exercise detailed control in that sense. I want to tell you, this system and the efforts Serbia is making today will make our fight against organised crime, money laundering and potential terrorist financing more effective, but in no way does it mean that Serbia is not fighting today and I, as someone who attended that session, have seen how much and the policy is involved, and there is the prime minister right, politics is often very involved, and despite the fact that you have certain, as they say "immediate outcomes", which are not met in certain recommendations. In addition, we had a large number of countries that expressed concern, a huge number of countries, about the objectivity of the report that was related to Serbia. So there wasn't an absolute consensus about it. When there is no consensus, the ICRG mechanism is such that the chairman makes a decision. This is not the decision of the majority of Member States or those of the largest distributors or anything like that, but of the co-chairs who have in this case made such a decision. I am not saying that Serbia has nothing to meet, Serbia has and how to meet certain standards, but you will see that we will certainly be, when both ICRRG and FATF make recommendations, I hope that you will then praise the efforts of the Republic of Serbia. Here, we'll be there and we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32462	Thank you, Vice President. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32463	I don't mind, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when someone says to himself that he doesn't belong in this room and that he'd better manage to get out of that room. A personal decision, nothing disputed, but if he is bothered by the fact that MPs receive salaries before leaving the gym, he should return his salary, if that bothers him. Furthermore, if he is bothered by the state's involvement in good things in this country, when he returns his salary, let the tractor he has received as a subsidy to this very state. As for good things and what is plus in Serbia's citizens' pocket, this should not be consulted with Vuk Jeremic, who knows absolutely nothing about it, who is livingly caring for the standard of Serbian citizens, all tweeting from the world's famous Monden resorts, all tweeting from Arizona, these days from Washington, Switzerland's resorts, etc. But he can consult with Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic admitted, reluctantly or unconsciously, I don't know, but admitted that today's average income in Serbia is higher than in his and Jeremic's time. The minister has already explained everything he needs to know about FATF, but it's not bad to remember. We've been answering that for some. There is no blacklist on which Serbia is located. If someone wanted to look at a little of that map as it was published, they would have seen that there is some kind of dark spot for only two countries, none of those countries Serbia has. Anyway, if you're worried about what we've done so far, that's the question we've been asked. You can't call someone a MP without having no idea what the National Assembly adopted in December of last year. When was that? Was it a hundred years ago or three months ago alone? Look at the website of the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, it says there which laws we adopt, which laws we now adopt, it says in the light of these laws, why, and it all writes well. If you are wondering when the state could have had something to do with some crime, some terrorism or anything paramilitary, and he said it well in his own words again, unwittingly or unconsciously, Boris Tadic in an interview with Svetislav Basari in 2011. He said that his party, then led by him personally and his best Vuk Jeremic, had ties to both paramilitary formations and crime. Maybe some things brighten up here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32464	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Jorge Komlenski: Replica. I don't want to beg you. ) The word has Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go. It's full of leaves. I beg the messengers for patience, we have some order as the MPs have reported. Everyone's gonna get a word that they have the right to do that in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32465	I would also like to thank the minister for the specific answer. I'd just like to say two more facts, which is that as far as this electricity production was concerned by the minister's mention, it's 11% higher this year than the previous year, and it's not for any praise, since last year it was the production of electricity at the historic minimum. So, if you raised 11% on that, it's far from the real needs of Serbia and the EPS. So, in addition to that, if the EPS is doing a good job, I haven't heard an answer to what then a new debt, if it already has 450m euros in funds in the account. As far as the FATF and the laws adopted here are concerned, I thank the minister, unlike the prime minister, for clearly saying that Serbia has not met certain international standards required of it and that it has now practically confirmed what I was talking about in this session of the Assembly by an urgent procedure they adopt the laws that are related to it. If this is not the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it is certainly the previous five laws that are from regular number 2 to regular number 6 and you will agree with me. Of course, these laws and how they have ties to the FATF and that Serbia is on the blacklist of the organisation, as a country that is risky for money laundering and financing international terrorism, I repeat, from yesterday's Finance Committee, where Mr. Mijailovic says -- we have done a lot to comply with the demands that he has put before us above all, you have heard all about FATF requirements, namely the requirements that are set before us in order to prevent money laundering. So that's the point. Come on, do it. But I was saying that the last six years of time have been wasted so as not to do something that has been adopted and that has been Serbia's commitment since 2012. (President: Thank you. ) I ask another question, and I end up, if the minister can answer – which country is the chairman of the FATF that blocked, or put Serbia on the blacklist?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32466	Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32467	If we're talking about power generation, of course it depends, next to renewable energy sources, besides the hydropower generated from the power plant, you have, of course, that energy produced by coal. What Serbia could not influence was hydrology in the previous year, which was bad and therefore had an impact, especially in the first and second quarter, on a significant drop in electricity production, but was largely compensated by the enormous work of miners on coal production. It's really something that the EPS did great and praise both to those people and miners who fought for it. So no one can say, no matter what anyone says, that production was absolutely record-breaking. As far as coal production is concerned, this record production increased by 4.1% in the first quarter and total electricity production by 11.3%, and that's a really big contribution. As far as these loans are concerned, we have two good things. The first thing we get with this is a million-euro grant, so total grants. We have a situation that never before has it been possible to obtain credit under such favourable conditions and usually this credit has been paid from the budget, i.e. to burden all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We now have a burden on the EPS, so "Electroprivreda" and on current maintenance and for, of course, those parts for the development of new renewable energy sources, because by 2020 we are committed to achieving some production of about 27% of the share of renewable energy sources that Serbia is producing, which is good, which means that the EPS is thinking in the future, so the Ministry of Energy, about the future and about what the plan for Serbia is for the next 20 or 30 years not just remonts of some blocks that are to happen in TENT, PRO TENT or already where it will happen in Serbia. I also think that the state has assumed the condition to be a guarantee which is normal in the international type of agreement, but I think that this is a far-reaching consideration of the real needs of citizens of Serbia and to ensure our energy independence as regards the production of electricity in the coming period, certainly not always affecting everything, you cannot predict everything, but it is a good thing that EPS predicted diversification of its resources and that we can guarantee that in the next period of electricity we will be a resource that will be easily available to all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32468	Thank you, Vice President. Right to the replica of Gjorge Komlenski, mentioning the party president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32469	I thank the chairman. It seems that asking inappropriate and stupid questions is a transitional disease, with the wolf asking such a question and it costs Serbia a lot, this here and it's not so bad since it's mostly on the issues that we heard the D.A. gave clear answers in two circles and said what he meant by false and untrue applications when it comes to Alexander Vulin's apartment and said that borrowing money is not a criminal offense, and it's no shame, as it is no shame to earn money in some period of his life by physical work, having a roaster or anything else. Obviously, it is a shame for those who ask questions like this, and I believe that we from the state will almost get answers to whether the person asking questions was a criminal, not only did he destroy the first five-year-old in Trieste, but he also had his little criminally organized NGO called the Citizens' Resources Fund, which allegedly dealt with the elderly and received no less than the 53 million dinar circus in Tristenik, nor did any of the old faces have been known to help, support and others. What is visprestance that does not suit even those involved in organised crime, because they have their own code of honor, which is to transfer all the leniency and responsibility for such work to Ms. Juliana Jovanovic against whom the criminal charges for abuse of official office have been filed for this work of this non-governmental criminal organised company to obtaining anti-legal property benefit to itself two million, we will probably hear at least those millions and a half of dinars, and I believe that the answer will be that one of those who asks inappropriate and stupid questions constantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32470	Thank you. Let's move on. We've closed the circle of replicas. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32471	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the JS parliamentary groups in the voting day will support all proposed amendments and amendments to the laws that are now on the agenda for one simple reason not to comment on every law in particular, which this government does well and monitors life, monitors events and precisely these amendments and additions of proposed laws, I would say economic-financial, go to make it possible to make life easier for legal persons, natural persons, businessmen, and anyone who deals in a smaller or larger way with the economy of natural movements, financial affairs, etc. In particular, I should stress in front of the JS parliamentary group that amendments to the law have now finally introduced that it is necessary not to give the right to those legal persons and entrepreneurs, or to natural persons who are punished by judicial decisions for certain criminal offences, that they can continue to deal with certain matters that are taxually listed in the proposed laws. In front of local self-government, I would like to commend that, in the future of these amendments to the law, the planned documents of local self-government will be brought together with the government of Serbia's planned documents and that will make it easier, I am sure, to do business for the local self-government in the coming period. What I want to say in front of the JS parliamentary group is that we are constantly listening here to criticise the work of this government where the fight against corruption and crime has been neglected and so on. Whether those who criticise or don't see or won't see or hear, or who won't hear, or who can't read the results of the vote back a year or two days in local elections, in the state elections, when this coalition that makes up the government of the Republic of Serbia gets between 65% and 85% of the vote. Well, if the people don't know and see who they're supposed to support, they're supporting those who don't fight crime and corruption. That is precisely why this government is being supported by the people of the Republic of Serbia and will receive support and future support. That is why I note once again that the parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32472	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32473	Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, I am not sure on the one hand how much these two present police and labour ministers are responsible for the topics on the agenda and where our finance ministers and other competent ministers are in the government of the Republic of Serbia. This is more of a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and for the President of the Assembly, why are there not those who should be here today to answer the questions of the MPs. The second question that Serbian citizens cannot know is that it is the National Assembly, that is, the president of the National Assembly from the ruling majority, 20 different draft laws and decisions made by voting the ruling majority in one part of the agenda. Now instead of being able to talk about any proposed law for 20 minutes, I can now talk about all 20 proposed laws for 20 minutes, which clearly means I have less than a minute under the proposed law. So, the citizens don't know that, so I'm obliged to inform them why I won't be able to speak in detail, because the ruling majority's will has abolished the opposition's right to speak of each law individually, for 20 minutes, the head of the parliamentary group. Of course, as I have no problem saying what's good in the proposed laws, I will do it this time and, of course, point to some things that are controversial. For example, it is good that, with regard to the tax administration, we have these new proposals concerning the publication of the best tax payers, forced tax charges, savings orders of debtors, and the introduction of grace periods for the most vulnerable taxpayers. That's good stuff. So if we are opposition to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are not opposition to the state of Serbia. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes a good law, it will have our support, it is not a few times when we voted as an opposition for good government proposals. The problem is that these good government proposals are little and most of the government's proposals are bad, but here, whenever they're good, you have our support and I make it public. Another thing, let's say, which is good here, which is about tightening certain measures when it comes to founders or owners of certain companies, for example, dealing with accounting, or dealing with gambling in the law on gambling, where clearly in the proposed changes the rules prohibit criminally convicted legal and physical persons from being the founders of enterprises to which Serbia can transfer the right to play games of chance, or, for example, which deal with accounting that it should not be previously convicted of criminal acts relating to labour laws, justice and investment funds. That's good. So the possibility of not being abused must be strengthened and that people who have been held accountable for something cannot simply continue to operate and function. Of course, there are also those traditional problems with numerous bill proposals by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, it is said, for example, the VAT Act, which the Ministry of Finance is asking us to bring it into line with EU directives. I repeat that we really are not the National Assembly to act under EU directives. It cannot be the purpose of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to comply with the Brussels directives. So if you think every law you get as a directive in Brussels is good, then you're wrong. Every law should be good in the interests of Serbian citizens, not in the interests of Brussels and the EU. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia when it proposes laws, and we, as MPs, when we adopt them, should take care of the interests of Serbian citizens, rather than fulfil the Brussels directives. That's what we here are constantly facing as a problem with most of the laws that come to us in the National Assembly. It is always the reason for the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it is a directive from Brussels and that we must comply with that directive. Now tell me, dear ministers, why do we have to fulfill this directive? Are we a member of the EU? When we are a member of the EU, then we should follow EU rules. While we are not an EU member, why should we apply the conditions, pressures, blackmail, orders and directives of Brussels. On Serbia's road to the EU at all costs, we are about to implement every directive. If the EU tells us, you have to give up KIM, we need to give up KIM because the EU told us to? Of course not. If the EU tells us, sell out all your businesses, shut down domestic production, only import our goods from the EU, should we do that too? Of course not. That's the same for these laws. If something has arrived as a directive from the EU, think carefully before you propose it to the National Assembly, because one is the interest of Brussels and the other is the interest of the citizens of Serbia. These interests are often opposed to each other. Brussels looks at the EU's interest, their multinational companies, their economies, their policies, their international relations. We should be looking at our interests, our economy, our economy, our allies in the world, not looking at the interest of Brussels to be applied here at all costs. So, please, when you work together with the EU as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, watch what is Serbia's interest, not what is the EU's interest. So we as Dvori have no problem working with the EU, with all European countries. It's a normal thing both economically and politically and in any other way, but that someone is blackmailing us, that someone in Brussels is giving us a directive, that someone is forcing us to do something that is against our state and economic interests, I don't see why we would do it, only if we're a "bana state". Only if we are conditioned and blackmailed by Brussels, only if our authority has come to power with EU support, so now it is obliged to return something to the EU. So, EU directives are something that is unacceptable for the Serbian Democratic Movement parliamentary group and we cannot thus support any demands and any law such as this VAT law, when it means the EU directive. Now let's move on to a set of laws regarding new loans, which you here suggest we adopt. I, gentlemen Ministers, want to inform you that according to the analysis carried out by the Dveri Economic Team, we of these three banks on the agenda, and this is the European Investment Bank, the German Development Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and so far we have 26 loans and 39 state guarantees for various loans that have been taken by public enterprises in Serbia. It's a total of 65 different loans, only with these three foreign financial institutions. So we're in serious debt slavery, we're seriously in charge of foreign international monetary institutions, and that's what our descendants should be paying back. The height is only for these three international financial institutions, and our current duties are over 2.5 billion euros. So the first problem we have with borrowing is what's the point of further borrowing? If new debt slavery brings us into all this, how many of our future generations will have to repay these loans? The most important question, what is the meaning of these loans? Are they really to the benefit of the development of our infrastructure, our businesses, our agriculture, our local self-government, which is here to explain why we are taking these loans? I can understand travel infrastructure, because we need it and useful, but everything else we owe ourselves for, it makes sense that we only work if it's a direct investment in domestic production, only if it's going to fill our budget, only if it's going to bring new jobs. Yes, here you have both my hands and the entire Dveri parliamentary group for each borrowing, which opens up new jobs, which is a direct pump of money in domestic production, which through new taxes and contributions to the full budget of the Serbian state, and the borrowing that we are doing various investment projects that are only an additional burden on the Serbian state's debt, is something that, in our opinion, is not the real reason for us to be further in debt and into debt slavery. There are a number of other specific questions that we need to ask here, and some of the opposition colleagues have already asked. So, who are those who take commissions when they get loans like this and loans like this, who exactly is the name and last name of the guy who's gonna take the commission, who's the one who brokered it to get that loan, what's the amount of that commission that's going to him, to see how much the guy who's giving us in this? Is that someone from the domestic circle, is that someone from abroad, who's the one who gets rich on our loans? Mr. Minister, not just around, but directly. This loan, the commission is so big, the name and last name of whoever takes that commission. The second loan, the commission is so big, the name and last name of whoever takes that commission. Don't let us set somebody up and launder money through these commissions. Let's not, say, finance some marketing expert for SNS needs to take a commission, so you're not going as a party to pay for marketing services, you're paying for the state of Serbia or I don't know what other party and business and other needs. Two more important questions about this borrowing, and as far as we're concerned, who are we hiring as consultant services? There were words here and about it. The exact name and last name, the company, which carries the millions of euros to obtain consulting services, to realise certain loans, in order to realise another infrastructure and investment project. Are the consulting services of domestic companies and domestic individuals, or are the consulting services of foreign individuals, and especially those that lend us loans? Now you see the Ministers of what's the problem, I understand the interest of foreign international monetary institutions, because they lend us first and earn us interest. Secondly, they do consulting services so they earn by returning a good deal of money to those consulting services they provide. And finally, we give their firms the most profitable jobs in the realisation of these loans in large infrastructure investments. See how good they are, earning credit, consulting services, earning their firms the realisation of these projects. They have all the interests of this world to get into these loans, and you tell me what interests we have, where our consulting firms are earning here, where our domestic companies work, where we pump money into domestic production and create new jobs. Here's a list of these 65 loans, which was for us to make our industry in agricultural machinery? What was it about us developing large cooperatives and ransom places in Serbia? What was it about us making big agricultural industrial combinations? What was it about us developing any branch of our domestic economy that would be a substitute for imports, construction operations, textile industry, any other industry, and where did we take loans to develop our economy? What, we're not allowed to take those loans? That would be logical, for what would they lend us if we were developing our economy? We better import the products of their foreign multinational companies, import lobbying here rich and killing the competitiveness of our domestic production. I understand the interests of our lender, but I don't understand our interests in all this and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to explain it to me. Maybe there's some interest I don't see, but what I see is that whoever gives us the money is going great, he, his consultants, his firms, and as we go by, and what our children are going to have to pay back from these 65 loans of more than 2.5 billion euros, that's what we're going to see. Now I'm going to end my speech on one subject that's very important, it's just one of these 20 points, for the others I just won't have time for. I have decided to devote a little more time to this subject, and it concerns the election of President and Council of the DRI. It is an extremely important institution, which analyses how money is spent by Serbian citizens and how the property of the Serbian state is used. Believe me, I personally believe that at this point there is no more important job in the state of Serbia than to determine who steals money from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from the budget of local self-government and how property owned by the state, or local self-government, is used. The one who finds it and sends all those who have sinned against public funds to prison will do a revolutionaryly large piece in Serbia's history. I have not noticed that for these 6, 7 years, the SNS government has ended up in prison for several years on the basis of a judicial verdict, and you give me one politician or one tycoon, and we see that almost the biggest criminal and drug dealer, such as Dragoslav Kosmajac, according to Aleksandar Vukic, has ended up at large. So tell me also one big politician, one big tycoon, one drug dealer who, at this point, is on a multi-year sentence based on a strong verdict in Serbia's prisons. Where's Miskovic? On the loose. Where are the Caricians? On the loose. Where's Stanko Saturday Cane and the rest of the tobacco mob team? On the loose. Where's Mladjan Dinkic? In the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as his wife. The people who ruined us, accused of the most serious crimes, of the greatest crime, of the biggest money laundering, of the greatest theft, are all at large, and you're fighting crime and corruption? What would you do if you didn't fight crime and corruption when it's like this when you fight? So let's go back to the DRI, because it's actually up to it if someone's controlling the theft of state, people's, public money. Let's see how much you care about the DRI and then we'll move on to the candidates. The mandate of members of the Council ceased on 25 September 2017, more than six months ago. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not elect the most important independent State Auditing Institution for more than six months I can understand that from just one motive – that the DRI would not do its job and determine who abuses and steals people's public money. I don't see any other motive for you not choosing members of the DRI Council for six months. Of course, all the parliamentary groups had the opportunity to make proposals for their candidates, and so the parliamentary groups of authorities gave their candidates, the opposition's parliamentary groups, their candidates. There has been a face-up of candidates on competent, resolute assembly committees, and should the citizens of Serbia guess who has been proposed here for members of the DRI Council? Of course, those proposed by the SNS and the SPS did not cross any candidate proposed by the opposition, although it was seen on the assembly boards how certain the candidates who came from the opposition ranks were more powerful, more professional, more capable, with stronger biographies. If you want, we can also compare them here publicly and invite them here publicly to face the candidates of the government. So, one candidate comes from the SPS ranks and there are four additional candidates, counting and the chairman of the DRI Council comes from the SNS ranks. How will those close to the SNS and the SPS, which you suggested in the DRI control your personnel in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your staff at the level of local self-government, have almost complete authority in Serbia or at the level of the province? So, is that logical? Well, it doesn't make sense. The only logical thing would be to place someone from the opposition in the DRI to control the work of your personnel from republican to local level. Does anyone in Serbia have the illusion that those you choose as your proposals in the DRI Council will control you? Of course not. Do you want me to give you the result of the control so far? Here's one very precise data for you. During the period 2008 to 2014, unintendedly, pay attention to Serbian citizens, six years from now, half the DS power, half the SNS power, in both SPS authorities, unintendedly spent on the DRI report 5,881 billion dinars or 59 billion euros. Unintentional spending? Next, a 1,364 criminal and criminal charges were filed, and it all ended up in a drawer. Was anyone responsible for the non-intentional spending of 59 billion euros? Do you know anyone who answered? Is there anyone in custody for that? A special story is the spending of the current budget reserve the government has discretionary right to and for which virtually rarely anyone knows what the government is doing with all this. In the end, I will only list what Dr. Predrag Mitrovica has done to you, and based on the report, the DRI itself. So, where do all the money is stolen and all the ways they steal money? Here's the thing, on the arrangement of internal acts of local self-government, various abuses, official phones, official vehicles, official travel, representations, etc. Look at this, in the segment of income 22 modes of irregularities and abuse. In the section of expenditure 42 modes of irregularities and abuses in the use of budget funds. Please, in the area of public procurement 41 modalities of irregularities and not to mention that no assets are listed, that I'm not talking about that 59 billion euros someone who is in power spends unintentionally and did not end up in prison. Between 2008 and 2014, half the DS authorities, half the SNS authorities, in both terms in both SPS authorities, and someone stole 59 billion euros for which he had never been responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32474	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32475	Of course, not getting into it, if it's proven that someone was involved in any corrupt part of it, of course it's going to be the state's authorities, but I don't understand just one thing. Since the budget of the Republic of Serbia is around 10 billion euros a year, it would mean that someone has embezzled all the money of the Republic of Serbia for that period and that not a single penny, and not even one for the salaries of MPs has been spent in accordance with the law if it embezzled 60 billion. That's absolutely impossible. Ten billion euros is Serbia's annual budget. If it is 60 billion, all the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, including all the salaries of all the people in this country who receive salaries from the public sector, are absolutely embezzled. So that's, you'll agree, impossible. DRI, the previous president of the DRI was elected in the 2008th and 2013 term. So even the ruling majority had no problem with the people chosen in the previous period. He's had two full terms for five years. The National Assembly will choose new people. I wouldn't interfere with the decisions of the National Assembly, but I don't think it stands to be someone's choice or someone's got a problem or there's no problem with that. After all, it is important that the institution that applies to the Republic of Serbia does its job. As for the laws that are on the agenda, therefore, when we talk about VAT, we in legal solutions have several good solutions in front of us that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act foresees, which are, for example, support for companies that are exporters in Serbia. The companies established in our country have a heavy export activity and so far have had the essential opportunity to seek VAT returns when they are already paid and this law allows them, it will be fiscally neutral, but will essentially be support for these companies, because they do not have to provide money in advance, they will not have to pay VAT, so later they will seek a refund, but by the fact that the exporters will not have to pay it. So we have something that is systemic support for exporters, we are helping our country, and we are not doing any damage to the Republic of Serbia, but, let me say, a tax on companies dealing with activity. Also, the rate of VAT is reduced to food mixtures, which is good, because I think it also supports agriculture in a specific way, and I think that our production in that sense needs to be strengthened. And I just need to look back at a few public debt sentences. Public debt today is 59.3% of GDP. So, that's what I would say one, we have a trend of reductions in the last three years of a constant trend in reducing GDP's participation in public debt, and that's good because the Republic of Serbia shows what the MPs have said, our children won't have to pay more, they'll pay less. And we are trying, the government is trying to measure and all that it is doing to make it easier for the citizens of Serbia, all that was before. And what's good? We don't take loans today to cover public companies' debts. We talked earlier about energy companies, the last two years, which has never happened before, all five of the Republic of Serbia's energy companies are operating positively. This has not happened before, but two years in a row all five businesses positively and generates revenues for the Republic of Serbia. We're taking credits for development today, which is that we're reducing public debt, which is what we're using for development not to cover debts, and who knows what interest rates. And one more thing. You don't think KFV pays someone a loan fee? They and if they give you Grand, so if he has a consultant, consultants pay those from the grants they give you. Serbia pays interest, if you have your own funds, then you don't need any credit, if you don't have it, you have to take the loan. Credit is on really favourable terms and nobody gets paid, I don't know what commission, it's usually experts who work with these banks to help you implement these kinds of development projects. So, it's not about the money that's the money of the Republic of Serbia, it's about the million-euro money that Serbia is getting in return. So it's a "KFV" gift. They didn't have to give it, they're negotiations that were agreed on. We have the possibility for the Republic of Serbia to get that kind of expertise, not any commission, if people didn't think someone was paying a commission, which someone took a loan, nor would KFV as a state German bank allow, nor would anyone in the Republic of Serbia take it. We take credit for which we pay the interest rate which is very transparent and lower than the interest rates that were taken earlier. And as for helping, help will be realized in a better way. We today use these projects, which are credits that we take to work on our country's development and ensure that more electricity is produced which will ultimately lead to, let me say, more money for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We don't spend that money on consumption, we spend on development, and I think that's how we do it, responsibly and seriously. The very fact that we are below the level of the mastic today, which predicts 60% of GDP in this debt, we are now at 59.3%, so it shows that the Republic of Serbia can say that it has succeeded in one important thing and that in the last three years in continuity it reduces its public debt and leaves the citizens of Serbia with fewer debts and more opportunities for the money it takes to go into investment, infrastructure with everything that leads to development, which raises GDP, not in some public consumption or in return or service. Secondly, we unfortunately had to spend one part of this government's mandate, paying back some debts from the past, when the interest rates were also 7. 8, 9%, which was really almost unsustainable. Today, the state is also doing a certain kind of transformation of these debts, for rolling, for paying back, early repayment of debts, and thus showing responsibility to its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32476	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go, straight to the replica, of course Boska Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32477	Mr. Marinkovic, if you'll excuse me, I'm one of the authorised representatives at this session, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32478	Yeah, here you go. Based on that, I thought it was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32479	So don't limit me to these two minutes, I have a lot to say about how Mr. Bosko Obradovic and Dvori have been pumping state money since 2004, until today. What I fail to say, I hope my colleague Marijan Risticevic will say. So, Mr. Bosko Obradovic started pumping state money already in 2004, otherwise during the Martov pogrom of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, from Kolubara. At the time, Kolubare's director was Mr. Vladan Jovicic of the DSS. At that point, Kolubara recorded, and in 2004, a loss of nearly 10 billion dinars, while still losing more than 140 million to various associations. Of all the various associations, one of the associations, since 2004, the Dvori, which was from Kolubara, which was then squirming in losses and debts, was given a total of 4.2 million dinars. This was continued both in 2007 and 2008 and in 2009 and 2010. Keep going. When it comes to pumping out state money, Mr. Bosko Obradovic understands this extremely well, much better than we in the SNS, because we have never financed in this way. I will now read you the data only for two financial years, for 2008 and 2009. By the way, Bosko Obradovic is allegedly a major opponent of DS, everything the DS has done. He is the largest anti-alignment fighter to come in October 5, 2000, and he has a very big aversion to DS and only loves their money. In 2008 and over, watch out, the Ministry of Diaspora, as they had skillfully figured out, as if Dvori were somewhere in America or Australia, the Ministry of Diaspora in 2008 singled out 300,000 dinars, and for 2009, again, the Ministry of Diaspora, i.e. in 2008, watch twice 300,000 dinars, and 400 thousand dinars, and in 2009, twice 300,000 dinars. So, the diaspora ministry only in two budget years, 2008 and 2009 allocates more than a million diaspora diaspora diaspora diaries, the Dveri movement. I would like to remind Mr Bosko Obradovic that he entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the list of parties that signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Republic of Serbia at the end of April 2008. It was a joint government of DS and DSS. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia by Bozidar Djelic, and you remember that he waved on those pens as some kind of relic that would leave many positive effects for the future generations of Serbs. So, the inlet pen signed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU at the end of April 2008. In 2016, Mr. Bosko Obradovic entered the National Assembly on the DSS list. Furthermore, that was not enough, fighting for a censorship to somehow get hold of those famous 5% votes, which were necessary for a party, or coalition, to join the National Assembly, he did not turn to help over alleged election theft to the ambassador of the Russian Federation in Belgrade, to help the ambassador of China, he addressed the US ambassador, and that is the fact. Furthermore, Mr. Bosko Obradovic lectured us here on how we should lead the policy towards KIM, that everything the Serbian government does, everything the President of the Republic does that is wrong, that it is a betrayal, that we will eventually have to recognise independent Kosovo and Metohija, that we are acting in accordance with some EU directives. I'll read to you now what the Dverry program was like. I don't know, maybe it's changed since 2011. I will read only one part so that the citizens of Serbia know what kind of hypocrites and two-faced people are involved. So, one part of the Dwri program related to the KIM negotiations. So, in 2011, Dvori says, I quote -- since the EU has taken over the role of mediators in the negotiations, before they begin, should insist on a clear and unequivocal statement by European Council President Herman van Rompei, which will send a message to Kosovo's Metohic Serbs that they should remain in KIM and that, in particular, the EU will guarantee them, not the UN, but the EU guaranteed all rights and freedoms and not tolerate any provocations of political or armed anti-Serbs. So the EU should give these guarantees, not the UN Security Council, not the Republic of Serbia, but the EU. That's what Dvori said in 2011 at a time when they were financed from the DS, through the Ministry of Diaspora, and when they were financed from the Colubara. That's why these are the attitudes about KIM. Also, it is said -- KFOR's chief commander must be assured that the international military forces on KIM will strongly react to significant military forces in the event of the remaining Serb population's threat to the southern Serbian province and the mass action of Albanian para-institutional and para-institutional structures. We believe that security services, quote and underline once again, I believe that the security services of the EU's influential states, not the UN, but the security services of the EU and KFOR influential states, have enough information that makes this request of the Serbian side necessary. Furthermore, Serbia, in Dveri's view, demonstrates its full readiness to participate in joint projects of mutual interest with representatives of temporary Kosovo institutions, with or without the support of international organisations, in the areas of traffic, transport infrastructure, energy, among other things, it means that Shiptars are also given a lake of gas pipelines, agriculture, forestry, water industry, tourism, this means ski resort in Brezovica, sustainable development, environmental protection and spatial planning. It is the 2011 Dvori programme, related to the negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia in talks with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. What can you see from this part of the program that I was quoting? What's being mentioned? The European Union, KFOR, EU Member States' security services, co-operation with Albanians in KIM in all the important life issues for Serbs in KIM, traffic and transport infrastructure, energy, tourism, sustainable development, environmental protection, spatial planning. No mention of Russia, no mention of China, no UN Security Council, where Russia and China are safeguarding our sovereignty and territorial integrity at KIM. Only the EU and the security services of EU Member States are mentioned. Why was the Dwri program like that? It had to be that way, because Dvori was at that time, and probably today, financed by the then regime of Boris Tadic and in continuity, from 2004 to 2012, Dveri was on state mangers, whether it was Kolubara, whether it was the diaspora ministry's budget, whether it was the cash they received from the DS. Now these people in 2018 are giving us lectures about how we allegedly pump some money out of the government register, how we're corrupt, how I don't know what kind of, how we're running the Kim negotiations. I only gave you a few examples of how much money they got from the Colubara, when Kolubara had 10 billion dinars of losses in 2004 alone. The money was received in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, and then since 2008, they move to the state budget and each year they get from the Diaspora Ministry, and the latest technology that the state is stolen, is when money is received from the state for the election campaign, so what is not spent, so that it doesn't go back to the state, to end up in the private pockets of functionator Dveri. In order not to take too much time, this will be very detailed, with the structure of all expenditures, all receipts, all takings, all thievings directed by Dvera, to tell you something more about my distinguished colleague Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32480	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32481	Mr. Chairman, therefore, I do not know on what basis Aleksandar Martinovic was given the word that he was speaking against Dvora for 15 minutes. (President: As Proposer of the Act) ) The Courts are not part of the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do I have 15 minutes to respond to these attacks and slanders? Do I have those 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32482	What do you say? Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Do I have those 15 minutes to answer? You don't have the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic has the Rules of Procedure, as a proposer. So we have one point and he was absolutely talking. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32483	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to find out that Mr. Martinovic can attack and defamation the Davery for 15 minutes, and I only have two minutes to answer him, and then Mr. Risticevic will bend over and they will be talking all day against the Dvory, and we can answer in two minutes, but it's okay, it's the rules of the game that you prescribed. (President: I wish no one would attack anyone.) I'm the only one here in the agenda, Mr. Chairman. I did not make up my views and lie, inventing, like Mr. Martinovic. I read the reports of the State Auditing Institution, which cited 140 modes of different non-intentional spending of money from 2008 to 2014. One hundred and forty ways to steal money from state and local budgets. On the other hand, when you're an NGO, you have the right to apply for State funds. What was so controversial about that? The Dvori were not involved in politics until 2011, they were an NGO. On the other hand, the biggest lie, I've never seen an American ambassador in my life, I've never been to the American Embassy. I am not a friend of Tony Blair, Gerhard Schrader, Bill Clinton, but the president of SNS and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. He hangs out, hugs and kisses with war criminals and the killers of the Serb people. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32484	Comrade Obradovic, are you replicating Mr. Martinovic or, the president is not here. Don't use words like that. It's a replica to my colleague Martinovic. Here you go. Sign up again, I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32485	Thank you, Chairman. I think I have made it clear enough who is a friend of the NATO Pact, the US, the EU and whom the EU congratulated on winning the presidential elections three hours before the polls closed, who brought the SNS to power, because it accepted that it served more and better the interests of Brussels and NATO than the DS led by Boris Tadic and in such a situation, which were never in power, something to resent, invent and lie, is indeed inappropriate. Solve the problem of unintended spending, solve the problem of stealing money from this people, solve the problem of criminals, tycoons and politicians who robbed us in the past 30 years, so contact the Two People. Until then, I can only read you another quote from the DRI report -- in preparatory actions for drawing up financial reports, it has been found that no financial assets of the Republic of Serbia worth, pay attention to 477 billion dinars, are listed not even financial assets worth 24 billion dinars. You don't know what the property of the Serbian state is. Someone is robbing the property of the state of Serbia and you rather than doing it, you are dealing with the Dwarves, as you say, a small and irrelevant opposition party. Why are you so scared of the Daver if we're so small and irrelevant?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32486	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Let's move on with the replicas. Right on Nedjo Jovanovic's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32487	I thank you, Chairman. Indeed, we are not fascinated by what he does, says Bosko Obradovic, even, on the contrary, it is not for fascination, it is for the greatest condemnation that can be said. But speaking of false things, then we have to tell who's telling the truth, which is exactly Bosko Obradovic. Given that it has repeatedly referred to the SPS as some privileged party, I have to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia, the SPS as part of the government, and this and the previous one, has never had benefits, never had privileges. In Surdulica we are superior to power already several electoral processes. Every year, the DRI literally combs, under quotes, everything that's done at the level of that local self-government. When it comes to partocracies and people's employment, then I would ask a few questions, to answer if any information is correct. Let's say, is it true that Mr. Obradovic's father worked as a city inspector at City Hall? Did Mr. Obradovic's brother work at the City Administration for Urbanism? Is it true that Mr. Obradovic's own brother's wife worked in a public institution? Is it true that Mr. Obradovic was the PR city library in Cačka? Is it true what it is and whether the financial business of the firm "Katena Mundi" is controlled? Why? Because this company is registered in APR registered as one of the founders of Bosko Obradovic. The question arises what was the financial structure of the company at the time when he was the legal representative of the same company? That's what finance is about, financial spending. I will not talk about budget terms because of what Mr. Martinovic was talking about, but these others are very interesting about the limits that should be dealt with. If all of this is true, I'll end up in this sentence, then the question of the personal ethical code is, can anyone who has all this in mind be imputable to anyone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32488	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Bosko Obradovic obviously doesn't know all the points of the agenda. Therefore, the 19th item of the agenda is the Proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the Service of the National Assembly, which has been tabled by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues. This committee has empowered me as an authorised representative at this session of the National Assembly. Furthermore, as far as financing the Dvora, here's what Milos Jovanovic says, if I'm lying, I don't suppose the man who's president of the DSS is lying. In a statement to "Today" on 21 February 2018, he said -- Bosko Obradovica's movement is on its own, as the DSS has financed the very movement in its own time, and that is what Dragan Djilas did, which can testify. So you're not only funded by the DSS, you're funded by both Dragan Gilas and his thieving association. As for what Mr. Nedo Jovanovic said, "Katena Mundi", just to remind you, Mr. Obradovic, here, tell the Serbian citizens that in 2014 as one of the co-owners of "Katena Mundi" called you at the SNS Executive Board, you proposed a coalition of Dvora and SNS in the Municipality of Luciana? Your condition was that all schools and preschools were supplied with books, textbooks and all other material from the publishing house "Katena Mundi", and you will in return allegedly reduce attacks on SNS. (Bosko Obradovic: It is a hit. ) Yes, it is a hit, so does Bosko Obradović. So, you make a publishing house, you get a little funded by Gilas, a little DSS, a little Kolubara, a little Diaspora Ministry, and he says, "I'm not responsible." You are not responsible, not because you do not want to be held accountable, but because Serbian citizens did not give you the right to bear responsibility for the fate of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32490	Thank you. Right to the replica Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32491	Thank you, Chairman. You know what, these fairy tales that Aleksandar Martinovic is talking about can only be trusted by one who believes that Aleksandar Vukic lives on the salary of Serbia's 100,000 dinar president. So if someone believes that Aleksandar Vukic lives off the salary of the president of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32492	You're absolutely right, pal. You're using your time. I cannot really allow you to insult the President of the Republic in such a way, for no reason whatsoever, without any need. You're right, the replica with Martinovic, with the SNS, with the SPS, all freedom. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32493	Thank you, Chairman. So anything can be said against the Dwri to lie, to invent, to slander, and we can't even answer. It's okay, it's game rules, we respect. The ruling majority, you can do whatever you want, but you can't do as long as you want. So the second question is -- the SNS has spent its entire opposition century attacking the former government of Boris Tadic, in which, of course, the SPS sat by accident, and then when the radical and catastrophic regime was torn down, the SPS was taken and continued to exercise power with the SNS. Will the SPS be responsible for anything from the time of the bad government of Boris Tadic and then the DS and SPS coalitions? Or is it that the SPS has gone into power with the SNS, it freed all blames from the previous disastrous period of destruction of Serbia's state under the DS, according to the SNS? Of course, I know that you don't even respect your own president, Alexander Vukic, who said that attacking a family and that bringing members of the closest family into dirty political conflicts is really inappropriate. But that doesn't apply to the Obradovic family. You can step on her, insult her, attack her, she can't work in public institutions, businesses and institutions, she can be the subject of a roll call here in any way, and when you mention the Vukic family, then she jumps the chairman, then everyone protects the Vukic family as a white bear, and no one can ask what Brother Alexander Vukic is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32494	I will in all ways, as long as this Rules of Procedure allows me, try not to offend your family. So, replicas, political debate, no problem, and I'm sure anyone who holds the presidency won't let your family be offended, but don't do that either. Go ahead, go ahead. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32495	Mr. Chairman, I'm just pointing to double standards. So some families are protected, some families may attack. Someone who had previously been in power and who was accused of being a catastrophic regime, here he is again in power and still ruling. When will those who have destroyed this country, who have stolen this people, who have purposelessly spent this amount of money in 140 ways of theft, who has determined the DRI? So it wasn't me who told DRI that someone was stealing this people's money. Why isn't the government answering those questions, but somewhere in the drawer there are 1400 criminal and criminal charges against those who stole this people and the state?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32496	Thank you. Alexander Martinovic, replica. I'm sorry, we have a problem with the system. Can someone come over for a few moments, help us out? Be patient. Try again. It's okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32497	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I understand that Mr. Bosko Obradovic is obsessed with the personality of Alexander Vukic and with members of his family. We have already said a thousand times, it is no secret where Brother Alexander Vukic works, but why is Bosko Obradovic angry when one of his fellow MPs tells him that his entire family is working in the public sector, but every single one of them works in the public sector, and all of them in the public sector, allegedly his biggest political enemy, or one of Velimir Ilic's biggest political enemies, at the time he was Mayor Cačka. I don't mind. They talk together with this coalition partner, Sasa Radulovic, about some partocrat, political parasites, who are paralysing on the back of the people, and they are all working on one in the public sector. Whether in the library, whether in the town of Cačka, whether in the city administration, whether in a public enterprise, in public institutions. Bosko Obradovic receives salary in the National Assembly, everyone is on state mangers. I don't mind. That's legal. It is legitimate, but then don't lecture us on how partocrats rule in Serbia and how people are employed in the public sector by some godfather and parasite lines. You know it best. You and your family members, more or less, were all taken care of by Velimir Ilic and New Serbia. As for the coalition offered by the SNS, you did not offer it only in 2014, here is your statement from 27 April 2016 - we are ready to co-operate with SNS in Cačka. The Dvora Movement, which won second place in the local elections in Cačka with 24% of votes won, is ready to take part in the city's government, but Bosko Obradovic said at the SNS's first-place move in the elections. The SNS depends on whether New Serbia and the SPS, which were defeated in the elections, will return it to power, as someone from Belgrade will order a candidate for mayor Milun Todorovic or open a space for the creation of a new ruling majority of SNS and Serbia's Dveri movement. Bosko Obradovic said that on 27 April 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32498	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Neđo Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32499	I thank the chairman. First of all, no one in the SPS parliamentary group, therefore neither I personally, will ever insult anyone, nor have we done it, nor will we do it. It hasn't been done now. The Boška Obradovica family and any of the Boška Obradovic's family were not offended, only questions were asked. It's about something called, if someone else doesn't know, and they should know, it's about hypocrisy. It's hypocritical to say anything to anyone without going off on its own. If it comes from itself, then the facts are established, provided that they are true, what I have brought forth, then indeed it is most demagogue for anything to say to anyone. As far as the SPS is concerned, we're always open to everyone, literally every work check. Let it appear by name and last name to anyone from the SPS that he's done something wrong, if that's who he needs to answer for. But I also need to match those who have committed misdemeanors in other places and in other circumstances, not to mention the election commission on anything else. Therefore, if we are to speak in the language of culture, which is a missing language, when it comes to individual opposition parties, then we should talk in this way, not honoring something that is not true and planting, which has become a rule. In this spirit, I ask you to keep an eye on not only you as chairman, but to preserve the dignity of this Parliament which is often violated by the vocabulary we have been used to long ago by certain opposition parties, especially those who are now participating in this replica and which is why I am now reporting. Therefore, I no longer want to use the time of work of this congregation in any way, in order to give meaning to someone who does not deserve it. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32500	Thank you for your construction. I agree with you completely that we should continue in this spirit and language of culture and since there is also a Deputy Prime Minister, who is indeed a reference framework for culture and a professional and correct debate. We're moving on. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 5 October and change. Serbia's mafia coup, the Republic of Serbia is on an uninterrupted path to the EU. It carries a lot of political consequences, I'm talking about giving up territory, that's what I'm talking about. pressures to deny the territory of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, but it has some consequences under the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This is, above all, the process of harmonisation of rights and the harmonisation of Serbia's legal system with the EU's legal system. Such a latest example is this proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system. Otherwise, it is now a fashion in this EU accession process, so that everything that is the EU and Western countries, sometimes even from words to words, is copied and become the laws of the Republic of Serbia. So is the Law of the Planning System. It says, Article 2 of the Law – certain terms used in this law have the following meanings, under one, public policies are the directions of action of the Republic of Serbia and the direction of operation of the AP, units of local self-government in certain areas to set the desired objectives at the level of society. The term – public policies, in plural. First of all, I don't know what public policy means, public policy, whether there's some private policy or some secret policy and why in the plural. On the other hand, the directions of action of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government. The state administration of the Republic of Serbia and the State Administration Act make it clear that there are people in the state administration who are constantly employed and people who are elected in the elections, and whoever wins the elections for the republican parliament, the AP parliament or the local parliament, then forms power and determines the policy direction. I don't know who needs a legal framework for that. On the other hand, the bill also gives the principles of managing the public policy system. It says, among other things, the principle of economics, the principle of financial sustainability, the principle of reality. I really don't know what reality means. It says – means respecting financial, economic, social, cultural, spatial, ecological, regional, administrative and other options when planning. The state administration of the Republic of Serbia should be governed by the principles of administrative law, so the principle of public, the principle of purpose, the principle of legality, etc. The principle of reality I really don't know what it means, and I especially have a symptom of what it says here – respecting administrative and other opportunities. Is this a front for the elastic application of laws unless they comply with other laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia? This whole law I see here as unnecessary. There is a Law on Planning and Construction if any guidance needs to be given to a state administration authority. What is important in all these laws is the EU's comments and compliance with the directives. The National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other state bodies should not be interested in what the directives are and what EU rules are. The National Assembly should pass laws that correspond to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, not because they are in accordance with some directives, because I have the impression that the National Assembly is passing laws in order to please someone or to be commended somewhere, not because of some progress in social life. I think it's completely pointless to pass this law. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia has since 5 October accepted all EU dictatorships and its organs and implemented them as soon as possible here in the legal system. I would even mention some threats that came from the EU in one period, when the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, following the introduction of sanctions by the EU to the Russian Federation, Rasim LJajic, said that sanctions are a possibility for exporting Serbian agriculture to the Russian Federation and that Serbian exports could replace to some extent the exports that have been achieved by EU countries prior to the introduction of sanctions. The EU has come from a diplomatic note prohibiting the behaviour of the Republic of Serbia and reproving Minister Rasim Ljajic for thinking with his own head. So it doesn't matter what's in our interest, it only matters what the EU authorities like. I am sorry that Mr Vujovic is not here, because I am really interested in how far this goes, how many more senseless laws need to be passed and what definitions we need to introduce into our legal system, such as these pointless public policies for all these chapters that are open. But also, these dictatorships are not respected exactly when the Serbian Parliament is not responding to their implementation. One of the bodies of the Council of Europe, the Commission of the Anti-Corruption Group, GRECO, made a recommendation in July 2015 that the Serbian Parliament is passing laws exclusively under emergency procedure and, among other things, it is corruption, but what is important for the assembly's debate is that, apart from passing all the laws under emergency procedure, discussions on laws that are diverse are being brought together. So 19 of the bill's proposals, including three decisions, are in a unique debate. And I am very interested in what Minister Vujovic, the finance minister, has to say about the proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly's service, since he is the minister who should be the rapporteur here and who should defend the government's views. As for the emergency procedure, of course, all laws are passed by emergency procedure and it has already become a rule here, an emergency procedure should be an exception, not a rule. It takes every bill to be here in the debate, possibly with laws that are related, not to be collected here both here and here, with a little bit of detail, to save time and take away the right primarily to opposition MPs to talk, to use MPs' time for all these laws. One of the other draft laws is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, and above all Article 5, which is amended and said, is amended and it is added: "which have been obtained until the date of application of the law governing the financial support of the family with children, which provides for one-off payment of money on behalf of purchase of baby equipment", i.e. The VAT on baby equipment. We have seen over the past month that the most recent priority of the Republic of Serbia is the fight against the white plague and the increase in birth rate. We've seen a valuable asset that future mothers who have more than two or three children will have in some period that will follow, and now we can't lift VAT on baby equipment. Or, there's a VAT refund, but there's about 17 or 18 papers to be collected, and then a contribution to all the institutions, and then a year later, some of that money comes back. The National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should show determination and that it really wants to increase the birth rate in Serbia, which I agree is one of the priorities, but by completely abolishing the baby's tax on equipment, not by prescribing some way for that vomit, because who knows how many people give up and not even referred to how they can get their money back. Also, in these bill proposals, the laws on giving two state guarantees to the German Development Bank in favour of the public company Elektroprivred Serbia, as I understood the last time of the Vujovic, we will not now enter into the next arrangement with the IMF, as the IMF will only play an advisory role from now on, since it has helped us over the past two decades, now their assistance is no longer welcome, but therefore the Republic of Serbia grants a loan of 80m euros. Is it the only way to get that loan back? that the company Elektroprivreda Serbia is not able to service its debt, but must return it to the state of Serbia through state guarantee? Would this company get credit if the state guarantee of the Republic of Serbia was not promised? If there is no possibility that any of our public companies should receive credit based on their credit rating, then, if the state is already paying that money, it should immediately invest in the company, not service some credit and pay interest. I think it's really illusory. Also credit related to “Srbigas”. So "Srbigas" is one of the biggest losers in the past 20 years and needs a state guarantee for each loan. In the same way, the money is lost by paying off the loan, instead of investing directly, not paying the interest, unless the company such as "Srbigas" is unable to pay off the debt and is unable to obtain credit for something they are applying for. I am also interested in whether co-operation with the IMF will be extended, Mr Vujovic is a representative of the IMF and the World Bank, a world expert, are our finances now at that level that we no longer need these loans? The Serbian Radical Party also indicated before the SNS authorities how devastating the IMF arrangements are. Is it because of the European Union and the process of joining the European Union that it is one of the obligations to co-operate with the IMF and the World Bank, that the absolute priority for credit is given by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and that the Republic of Serbia has the opportunity to seek credit in some other banks, somewhere else in the world where it might get loans on more favourable terms or is obliged to do so through European banks and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? The International Monetary Fund is an institution that paralyzes the economy of the state that signed the arrangement with it and from the moment of signing dictated further policy of the state. The International Fund speaks of which companies will be privatised, to whom will they be sold, how many workers will be fired, etc.? It is absolutely devastating for every country and for Serbia, and this has proved especially in the countries of Eastern Europe how much public debt has increased in the countries that co-operated with the IMF. Are all these guarantees received by our public enterprises, obligations in Serbia and the EU's accession process, and is the Serbian government forbidden to finance its own businesses and projects that they are making and as long as it is thought to continue with such practice? I'd like to hear from the minister, did he mean it when he said we wouldn't take an arrangement with the IMF, that he would really have this advisory role, and then, what does the IMF's advisory role mean? So is it a reference to where we're going to be in debt, what interest rates are we going to pay back our loans and what is it that they can fix for us? Because in my opinion, their help has only helped us and their role, even if it is advisory, is not welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32502	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32503	Dear MPs, I'd like to draw attention to one thing first, yes, you're a young MP and you're probably not addressed, but the agenda point 19. - The proposal for a decision on the organisation and work of the National Assembly Service is a proposer, and I think that the author, Mr Martinovic, has nothing to do with Minister Vujovic, nor was it his obligation to comment on anything by that member. I also see that it confuses you with what public policies mean, but you will probably, in your career, be aware of this and, together with the implementation of this law, participate when I now explain to you what this law will do, what are the advantages of this law and what is the difference between some past times and present and what this law will actually provide not only to the National Assembly, but also to the citizens of Serbia. Public policies are the direction of government action in order to achieve the economic and social objectives that the government believes are in the best interests of society. The law should enable it, four pillars, to be efficient, transparent, coordinated and realistic, realistic as you say, is not clear to you this fourth paragraph, but we're going to go in line. Efficient, because it implies an action plan, implies that we do not do ad hoc, but that we plan to plan what we want to do as a government, that it also be a commitment and autonomous provinces, that it be a commitment and local self-government, that it be presented to the National Assembly and that the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia can see what the government has planned and that you can control it, and that when the end of the year comes and you criticise the government for everything it has done or has not done. Transparent to be best pictured to the citizens of the National Assembly in which budget money is spent, unlike some earlier times when it was not done so. Co-ordinated, which means it has to be connected horizontally and vertically, i.e. to be what the government programme is, what the state programme is, what we all represent here, which is the interest of our society to be a common goal of both local self-government and autonomous provinces, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Realistically, it means that there is not a list of beautiful desires, nor a political manifesto, but that it is something that is quite realistic and that will contribute to a better society, to build a better society and a better material position for our citizens. It is the idea of this law, it is the idea to put all of this into a legal basis that will be a must for everyone to do exactly by law and not by any other means and that it is an obligation for everyone to present it at their own level, and in the end the Government of the National Assembly. When the time comes and, under this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will present to you the first plan, and after that, I believe that you will participate in it anyway, and that you will make your contribution that both the plan and after the realization will be implemented in the most qualitative way. When it comes to your second question, which is VAT for babies and your inconceivability about what you want with this law. The law also made it very clear in the previous law, which is in force until 30 June, i.e. on 1 July, that the refund is carried out by the delivery of VAT accounts. We noticed that a great burden is the possibility of abuse. The government's wish was that in a completely different way, it was realized just to protect people, young parents, to know what was theirs, and to get it one time, as soon as the child was born. Of course, we had to cover all those who would get a child, hypothetically speaking on June 30th, because they are subject to the old law and these amendments and the additions of the law are precisely that they do not have to worry that they will be subject to the law as long as they have a duty, as long as the state has a responsibility to those parents. When it comes to guarantees and when you say about the back-up loans, I think the government of the Republic of Serbia has done a lot in the previous period when it comes to improving the image and the credit rating of Serbia. We were witnesses, not long ago, that our credit rating was increased, that we would take big steps towards a credit rating that would be completely investment-interesting to all investors and that at that point we would certainly have better conditions than they are now. I want to remind you of the time 2000 when the funds were withdrawn and 10% interest. Today we're talking about a loan that withdraws 0.85% of fixed interest. I think that if anyone understands about the economy, they can understand how much favourable this loan is and how much the state of Serbia now has that rating much better than it has been in the past. When it comes to your comment on why "Serbiagas" and why "Electropriority of Serbia" is withdrawing credit. Well, under the Law on Public Enterprises, we have an obligation to be a guarantee to them. He's not returning the state, you were right, now unlike past times, they're returning exactly to public enterprises. It is a fundamental difference that both can now serve their obligations. That is the difference between what is happening now and what is happening earlier, and that is what we have promised the citizens of Serbia, which is that "Serbia" will no longer be a loser. On today, "Srbigas" is a business that operates positively, as well as an EPS. We can give ourselves the right to invest in the state of Serbia. I think Minister Stefanovic said exactly that in his presentation. We need to think about the future, not wait for the future, but step forward with the future, because it is fully clear which way the state of Serbia is going. Serbia is heading towards being a modern state, to be a rich state, to be in the best interests of its citizens, and in order for it to be so, we must now invest in what will wait for us then. All of what we are doing now and these measures and these loans and all of this, are arranged with due attention, which the auditors would say, in the best possible way and be in the citizens' interest and that we have no problem when someone is answering in this Assembly in five or ten years' time, going back to all of this and saying it's problematic. What's done now, it'll show time, it's done the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32504	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32505	Mr. Djordjevic, I am a young MP, you're an old minister, but I don't think we understand each other, I didn't even discuss the 19th point, but it just bothers me that he's in a unique search, i.e. in a unique debate. As far as this law is concerned, nothing will help us to be a modern state. In order for our state administration to function better, we need effective bureaucracy and respect for the law, not public policies, and I can tell you with certainty that it is a serious denses and doesn't mean anything and nothing will help us. As far as borrowing is concerned, you're right, we've been in debt a lot earlier, with much more unfavourable interest rates, but it can't be a comfort to us for an unfavourable loan or for continuing in debt, which is now less unfavourable for some interest rates than it was before. We all agree that Serbia has been through the October 5th robbery, but it can't really be an argument for us. I wish all our businesses were profitable. I just don't think this is really a way to make it happen. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32507	I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Section 1, which says that in this house we must address one another with a lot of respect. The minister through a little ironic way and style says he's young. Mr. Minister, his youth is not a lack, nor is your age an advantage It is measured here how capable anyone is of performing a function whether the minister as a member of the government or an MP as an MP, and the years and internship as far as who performs his duties are not appropriate. [[President: No replica, talk to me.]] Secondly, for the sake of the public, you must tell the truth, you hide the truth. Here, in your agreement on a loan to the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, there is a commission to intercede 0.75%, that is 600,000 euros, 80 million is total credit I'm just pointing to facts that are misrepresented to the public, and in doing so... [[President: You have entered the line, Your Honor.]] (President: This is not in the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... The strongest argument is that by disdaining the MP by calling himself a young MP and having no experience and hoping, it is a futuristic, I guess, consideration of the individual members of the government that his hopes are that the young MP will participate in the adoption of a law or the implementation of a law that only takes effect in 2021.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32508	Thank you. I have no doubt that youth has its advantages and that a colleague will have a good political career and participate in the future policy-making of Serbia. The minister didn't mean anything pessimistic, as I can give myself the freedom to estimate that even an MP when he said the old minister didn't mean anything pessimistic. Young, old, everything has its advantages, I don't think it takes a lot of noise to get around it. If you think the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure, he didn't remind anyone of the young and old, I agree that we're voting on it. Would you like us to vote, MP Mircic? You don't want to. Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure again? Here you go. What's the member now?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32509	Mrs. Gojkovic, I'm sorry you weren't here because you, your predecessor, and now you're chairman, were injured by article 27 because you gave him the authority to replace you consistently. Member of 107th because the dignity of the Assembly applies to all participants at the session, and thus also to Minister Djordjevic. You were in that position, Mr Marinkovic, who injured these members, I believe that you would certainly react, because the minister is eager, and he did so contrary to Article 107, because it is certainly not the dignity of the Serbian Parliament, to explain to his colleague Alexander Seselj, as it is appropriate in law – public policy, then it was also necessary to explain where the term came from. Since you've been taught, as our people would say, women in politics for so long, and now you've said the policy direction, you've rightly expressed yourself by the promoter, or the government, then Mr. Djordjevic should have said that from a certain Harold Laswell, an American politician, who lived in the first half of the last century, the term "public policy" and that it has nothing to do with the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia, since the world and the ages and since this Assembly is in this place and since Serbian parliamentaryism at all. Therefore, I ask that anyone who is to be chaired in the future, warnings and Minister Djordjevic, who uses these foreign expressions and boasts of them and a certain American whom I have mentioned, and also through translation in the wrong way of English words, hence the word "realistic" to which the right MP Seselj pointed, unlike all ministers in the government, and I believe that you, Mrs Gojkovic, will agree with me...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32510	This really didn't have any touch points with Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32511	Please, article 107, and that's what I'm saying. So art. 27 and 107, because all participants in the session are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, this is not an American congress.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32512	Everyone tried to respect Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32513	This is not an American congress, Mr. Djordjevic. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32514	Okay. And the 27th and 107ths don't have any touch points, or I didn't understand what I'm admitting. If you think I hurt you or the previous chairman... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: How could you not understand me? No, I have a limit, something I understand, something I don't understand. Just tell me, are you going to be a member of the 27th and 107th injuries? Thank you very much. Let's move on. I think the replica was enough. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32515	Dear citizens of Serbia, present guests, fellow MPs, today we have 20 agenda points that we cannot find a common denominator and thus cannot justify the reason for their merger in a single debate. However, since it has become a congregation cliché, I will, on behalf of the KSP, make an effort to contribute to this debate in principle, as if it were a serious and responsible debate, although it is not, and I will explain why I do not think it is. Most of these laws have broken the deadline foreseen by the government's work plan for 2018 and 2017. We did not get responsibility for breaking deadlines, although I suppose it is because of the presidential elections, so now the Belgrade elections and the complete blockade of government and parliament's work. The first law at this session, the first point, the SNS MPs, although they have the full right to do so, brought 240 amendments to the first four members, but I think it is extremely illegal and it prevents us from working. We view this as an absolute mobbing over opposition MPs, because we can't actually do the work that makes all of us here present pay for Serbian citizens. We must not forget one thing and interfere with the fact that the laws are a public matter and concern the public of Serbia, and that is why they should inform all of us at this debates on a timely basis about these laws. Then the fact that none of the 187 draft laws submitted by the opposition MPs has been put on the agenda is very worrying. If someone has read these laws, they will see that there are many good proposals that are not political laws, and the tendency is that no opposition law is put on the agenda, and there is no co-operation. You're asking for co-operation from the opposition and you're not giving co-operation in some perfectly reasonable billing. In the end, I'm really surprised why Mr. Vujovic is not here, because he's a borrower, as a borrower on most of these loan laws, he's a signer on most of these laws, it's a project of his ministry, and I really can't understand how he or someone from that ministry came to explain it to us in detail. The first law on the agenda is the law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, and this is an excellent example of the law's legislator's maneuvers to accept legal legislation, European experience in part, and in part avoids it. This could be a really good law if it is fully in line with the national plan for the adoption of EU legal flows. The debate on the law was concluded in early 2017 and we have it on the agenda of the Assembly only after a year, although it should ensure the modernisation of the system of planning and public policy making and should go to the package together with the Law on State Administration and make changes in this law that would ensure the introduction of systematic consultations with the public. However, the proposings and authorities do not care to consult the public and this is the greatest lack of this law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that such a law is necessary and that, as much as the employer did not want it to be like some other law, a thorn in the leg of the promoter, although not in such a healthy position as the government, but it will put order on the small door to create public policies and will not be so easily able to escrow the public and will not be able to escrow the local communities so easily, which we now very often have the case, because the centralisation of the authorities is evident. What's very important? Why is public participation important? Here, that's what's happening in Serbia right now. Who so far has not realized that the public has really become very interested in making public policies, in creating all strategies, he has really not understood the moment in the society that is now happening. We have an example of the citizens of Požega, we have an example of the citizens of Nis, we have an example of the creation of a local front in the King and many other examples where the public is actually interested, and this is the public who is interested in a particular problem, which directly affects her. This time it happens at the bar, and I'm glad that the citizens realized that they should take an active part in creating the policies of their local communities, because if we did a good plan of activity and led to all and well done all the strategies and action plans to which this law calls, we won't need a Lex specialis for some new "Belgrade on Water" and we won't be... Because the public will participate in these decisions. That's why we could support this law because he could completely unconsciously, the government I don't think he's aware of, to put order into legislation, planning, action plans if some important parts of that law relating to public participation were amended. What's very important for the other laws here is a whole package of legal proposals relating to loans. So we were denied the budget debate. We couldn't participate for the same reason as today we won't be able to move from two first members of the first law, about the plan system, because we're going to have a huge number of amendments. We also failed to comment on the budget. However, there is some cosmic justice, cosmic or congregation justice, here, in this package of 19 law members of the 3rd budget for 2018, which says that in 2018, the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia will be issued to us up to 58,604,400,000 dinars, or around 500m euros. There is a very clear indication of what all guarantees will be issued for. We are in this package to avoid being separated from the agenda, but this is enough as a visual example, we have four laws, the Law amending the Law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank of Serbia, and according to the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad. That's an amount of $8,235,294 American dollars. The balance of debt per budget is about that amount and it is totally unacceptable what was in the budget to turn the debt of "Serbia" into a public debt and to be paid by Serbian citizens. We here today need to pass the law that Serbian citizens will pay the debt of the Public Enterprise "Serbia". Probably in the next package of laws, it will be the same for Petrochemy Panchevo, as it is also covered in the budget in Article 3(a) that Serbian citizens will pay public debt. The debt of Petrochemy has been converted. So we're the ones who got the bad business rewarded. Yes, I will continue on these laws, on these loans, because I think they are very important, but first of all I would like to tell the citizens of Serbia one thing. If not everyone is aware of this, there is no state money, there is no government register from which the funds are taken. In this regard, it was not appropriate for the president of Serbia to comment when he said in Nis – here is the airport, and when you ask me for money, about, don't ask me for money for it. So, that state money, that budget, that's the funds of Serbian citizens. I urge the citizens of Serbia to understand and to remember that it is difficult to go to Serbia, that it is their money, that it is our common money that we pay, that these are our contributions to health care, pension insurance, unemployment insurance, our taxes and a complete VAT. So these are the funds of Serbian citizens. It is no jar, no well from which money is being taken from the state, but from the citizens of Serbia. It is very important for the citizens of Serbia to understand this because all these loans, whether it is the Frankfurt Development Bank in Maine, whether it is the European Investment Bank, whether it is Frankfurt again in Maine, whether it is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, means all these loans are usually taken for large infrastructure projects, capital investments that we do not want to stop. So, I have nothing against progress, major infrastructure projects, I just think we should monitor the spending of those funds so we don't have the situation as we extended the loan agreement with Azerbaijan because of the LJig-Prelin stock. We extended it without knowing why the work was late, who was responsible for late work, and how much more money we needed to get these works done. The explanation of the type that we received from our fellow MPs in the media Miroslav Lazanjski – planes fly, and they fall, the explanation of the type for Vladic's Han and that part of the Grdelička clisura – the rains are falling and the support walls are going down, these are absolutely unacceptable explanations. We need to know why Corridor 11 is not finished so far, who is the culprit, why is a completely wrong technical solution chosen, and that wall every time, which isn't actually a real support wall and what's going to happen in the next five, ten years, is every year due to the rain coming that wall is going to fall and we're going to have a dive? So, these assets that are taken up on this loan, where the states that give us the loan, and the banks from the states that lend us, made a very good business move for their countries. They lend these loans, introduce their firms, introduce their consultants, and make tenders where domestic businessmen can't participate in these tenders. Tenders are made where guarantees are such that no domestic company can respect, possibly as a subcontractor, so it is targeted that certain tenders are directed towards certain companies. In doing so, we import the most common equipment and machinery from those countries from which we took credit and actually those people did a nice job. They gave us a loan, we owed generations to bring it back to our country. They introduced their companies, they placed their goods on us, and they're people, and if we look at it as business people, they're doing it completely successfully, and we're actually spinning in a vicious circle where these assets are being spent, loans are being extended, infrastructure projects or any other capital projects don't end, deadlines are breaking through. They've been breached by the government because we don't even have reports of a government deadline breach, so why would we have a report on the breach of the deadlines of some corridors or any wind parks or anything? So it really shouldn't happen in a civilized society. And yes, the fact is, I'm going to turn around and look back on this accounting bill. The fact is that we have found ourselves on, in the light of this law stands, so the promoter has very clearly accepted, that the recommendations of FATFA are not fully respected. FATFA is an international body for the fight against money laundering, which is contrary to the prime minister's statements that she said was actually not true. However, in the light of this law, it says that these recommendations are not fully respected and that we have actually found ourselves on the FATFA list as a country through which money is laundered. Therefore, these laws, such as the Accounting Act and the Audit Act, are considered temporary laws, because they are quickly brought only to overcome this problem with regard to the FATFA report, this is a very good idea and I do not see any reason why you are covering it up? That's what the law says. I would once again like to tell the citizens of Serbia the following, that according to all these loans, I continue to insist on loans that are being raised by guarantors, jury, mortgages, you, your children, your grandchildren, your pensions, your paid, paid contributions to health care, pension insurance and unemployment insurance, your taxes and the complete VAT shown on your daily accounts that you are struggling with. And so that the next situation would not happen, the situation is this, I will call on my memory from the early '90s, when the last president of the SFRY, Mr Stipe Mesic, said -- My mission has been accomplished, Yugoslavia no longer exists. I would not like to say that this government or finance minister leaves with words – My mission is over, Serbia is in debt slavery and many generations will not be able to get out of this debt slavery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32516	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32517	Fortunately, unlike those who very effectively led Serbia into debt slavery, taking loans from world financial institutions at an interest rate of 8%, 9% meant to repay debts from public enterprises for non-intentional spending, for consumption, for disposal literally and for all these other things, that I'm not coming back to talk about, we could talk about corruption of the world scales that Serbia was really familiar with and which the world was talking about very active, about drug dealers, about everything that was unfortunately everyday in Serbia. We're taking credits for development today. We take loans today in a way that reduces public debt. For Serbia's citizens, I will say once again, today's public debt is 59.3% of GDP. Thus, we show that Serbia's public debt has been steadily falling for three years. Our mission will be, we'll be able to say that we left something for our children, that we're part of some other people's debts back, that we've returned what someone's borrowing us, not thinking about whether or not some of our children will, and when I say our children, I mean all of our countries' children, whether they're paying back some debts or not, we're thinking about the future today. Today we are thinking about how to work the world standard, the European standard of about 50 kilometers of highways a year. We are today trying to keep this standard, to build these paths, to be so developed that Serbia's economy has interests and we are trying to develop our dedicated industry, we are trying to employ people. One hundred and thirty thousand people have more to look forward to, has a job, so when we think of "Svarovsky" and "Johnson Electric" and "Continental" and "Ikee", "Ginsia" and "Jure" and all other companies that I could not mention now and 130,000 families that are receiving some money for that. We have reason to be content. And of course we don't say that everything is ideal and that it's all over, we have a lot more to do, but unlike some of the former ones who counted on that counter per hour, how many jobs were lost, we're trying to measure by the hour how many people we've hired. This is done by serious work. It is achieved by taking loans for construction, for infrastructure, and it is not, of course, that all the money available to the state is citizens' money, but it is a big difference who and how it manages it. Alexander Vukic controls the money responsibly, honestly, seriously, so we didn't sell anything. We don't sell our assets, we don't sell companies and businesses, so we make growth, we don't make privatisation revenues, we make investment revenues. There's a big difference. It's a big difference if you sell something and you show it as the money that the budget got and you never have it again. Our biggest company, we didn't sell any. Not a single one. And what we enter into contracts, we enter concession contracts. Airport. A huge victory for the Republic of Serbia, in many different ways, in many different ways. By raising the airline that was, you remember JAT, JAT was a serious loser who dragged her back, not to mention that the last plane was purchased in 1986. The last Boing was bought in 1986. Some of the MPs may not have even been born when they bought the last Boing in this country, and the company was on the verge of collapse. The airport was worth it, God forbid someone would give you a tenth of the figure that was reached today, not for sale, for concession. The airport remains in the hands of Serbian citizens, so it is a serious and responsible policy in the Republic of Serbia. That's what Alexander Wolfie does. It is the money of all Serbian citizens, but it is important who manages this money and how. Whether that money is spent, thrown away, that many become billionaires and millionaires without Serbian citizens having any of it or becoming or being guided in a way that Serbian citizens have more factories and more jobs and more roads, investment projects, because we all need to understand. We need to run politics, strengthen the private sector. Our job as a state is to strengthen infrastructure, to strengthen conditions, to strengthen ways for our economy to be compatible and competitive both in the region and in the world, and to help companies, here's why Ikea didn't want to come for years, why should some Aleksandar Vukic come to start all this, if these others were the same or equally capable. No, they're not. That's true. I know a lot of people don't like that truth, but that's right. Why is it that when we look at the construction of roads today, which is really doing well, is there still work to be done? We need to talk about everything, it's not controversial, but it's a good indicator of how much more successful it is on some major projects. When you look at everything that is done and in this city, everything that is done throughout Serbia, we have reason to say that we are on a good path and Serbian citizens have a future that they can look forward to. The problem was when they lost jobs, 400,000 jobs when you lost in a few years was a serious blow to the economy. What money, then, you don't even have the money to settle your pensions and pay right. Then all you have is pain and trouble. We've inherited such a government, a register or a jar, however you wish. It's much better today. We're reducing public debt today. We have a budget surplus. We don't have any trouble paying off any advances. The early government is paying back debts from the previous period, we are trying to leave our children less to pay back, and I hope today, below the level of Mastricht, below the level of a large number of EU countries. In a serious way, the government is working on it. If you'll allow me a few sentences around the FATF. As for this, I will repeat as many times as it takes, no one here has tried to conceal that Serbia has technically failed to meet all the standards the FATF has asked of it, but this does not mean that Serbia participates in money laundering and terrorist financing in any way. As I said through an example of the Real Property Recording Act, does Serbia have real ownership records? Yeah, there's one today, both through the IRS and the APR. Is that the standard FATF prescribes? No, but the difference is in both America and Germany. They consider in different ways what is important in the list of assets, i.e. real property, i.e. real ownership, and whether implementation software will be implemented in six months or in a year, whether it will be accepted in this way. So it's very important that people understand, it's not Serbia on some gray FATF list because we're some kind of money laundering paradise. Serbia is fighting very seriously. We in this year and earlier have in the region the most final judgments, the rightful convictions for money laundering and confiscation and property, even with predictive crimes committed abroad, compared to all countries in the region, the most serious result in concrete measures, and here we are praised. Therefore, the indictments of the prosecution and the final, i.e. the judicial judgments in matters relating to money laundering. In the fight against terrorism, we are one of the leading countries in the region. We have partner countries from all over the world who praise co-operation with Serbia and our organs. Would they do that if they didn't? Are all technical standards met? No, and that's true. No one hides it here, but it's very ugly to see some people looking forward to putting Serbia on some negative list. That's bad, I guess we should all fight that Serbia always has something for a step better. Is that commendable? It's not commendable. Are we fighting, are we doing everything we can, and is there a policy in that? Of course there is. I was there, I was present and at the ICFG session, Minister Vujovic was also Minister Kuburovic at the FATF session. The European Commission was against putting Serbia on the FATF list. The European Commission's representative at the ICFG was absolutely against it. So, I was physically in the O.R., and I was there when it happened. Is that always fair? It's not. Can Serbia do more? You got it. Serbia does. After all, a set of laws that are in front of us serves to make us more effective in the way FATF sees it. Is Serbia otherwise fighting it? Absolutely. This is shown by the results and by the security, i.e. the judicial institutions, that is, the results in the economy, that is, the results in everything. What I'm trying to say is that I see that there is effort and private sector, it's also seen, because there's a lot of new matter here, especially in electronic business, especially in business, let me say, in new ways of communication, as we now predict through tax system laws that we have better and easier communication of taxpayers, tax administrations, we have electronic forms. We have made it possible for companies with ease of operation and we have made it possible for ordinary citizens, who are taxpayers to have a grace period if the obligations that arise, their tax obligations, are disproportionate, which they agree with the tax administration together. So we're trying to get out to meet the citizens, predict what's going to be the actual future, facilitate every kind of good administration, but we're also trying to meet some of the world's standards and standards, because we want to be leaders in what's going on here and what's going on here. That's really the thing that stands. I'm sorry that someone doesn't want to accept, people always say the list... I come to ask what 10 criteria they think they are unfulfilled, whether they know one of those criteria that the FATF asks Serbia to meet, whether they know they're giving me those 10 criteria and why and what, and at least three or four of them aren't in the government's domain, but independent regulatory bodies, which you don't have the possibility of whether they're going to do it or not. I believe he will. I want to tell you, it's just that somehow, there doesn't seem to be enough knowledge of matter or enough understanding for the whole process. In any case, I am convinced that Serbia will be very effective in meeting all these conditions this year. Just then, I'm interested, when the FATF praises Serbia for the progress it has made, whether it will join in saying it – see how great it is. We'll see. Thank you very much. (Sonja Pavlovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32518	I'll give you my word, but I promised my colleague Snezani Paunovic I'd give her my word before the break, because then she has to go to the board. (Radoslav Milojic: The Rules of Procedure have priority. ) There is one member of 27 who spoils your happiness, so just read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32519	Dear fellow MPs, before I refer to the laws we are talking about today, I will express my deepest condolences to the family of the deceased counterpart Krasic on behalf of the SPS MPs. Kola Krasic was a man of great commitment to the idea of parliamentaryism and made a major contribution to the quality of the legislative processes. Eternal rest, dear fellow Zoran. Today, we have a set of tax and financial regulations, as well as several international contracts that the National Assembly should declare. I will start by talking about the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia. It is a new law in the legal system, which primarily regulates the system of planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of public policies in the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the requirements held in negotiating chapters 17 and 22 with the EU, which relate to economic, monetary and regional policy, there is a real need to establish an efficient and transparent system of planning at all levels to ensure that all aspects of development policies and social and economic, as well as regional and spatial, ensure sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. A package of tax and financial laws, which is also on the agenda today, should contribute more effectively to the work of competent authorities in the foreign exchange sector of taxes and excise duties. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, it brings several significant newspapers. In addition to harmonising with European legislation, changes are envisaged which are of paramount importance for the IT industry, as well as for investing citizens of the Republic of Serbia in short-term securities of value. In fact, the business of IT companies that will be able to buy and sell their software and other digital products in foreign currency in the coming period will greatly facilitate their business. When we look at data relating to the export of information sector services, it is clear that the apparent and uninterrupted growth of exports of these services since 2007, and it has created the need to support the IT sector through one such proposal and enable, in addition to reducing export costs, domestic IT companies to achieve greater competition on foreign markets. Official data also suggests that the Serbian software industry is constantly growing exports. Two years in a row in the IT sector records 21% growth. In 2017, exports of software services reached 900m euros and this clearly points to the fact that the software industry is a major developmental opportunity for our country and great potential for new jobs. The amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act provide for the possibility that our citizens can trade securities of value less than one year if it is broadcast by EU Member States. On the other hand, it allows, perhaps more importantly for our country, for foreigners to buy our securities of value and also for less than a year. Ensuring the free movement of capital related to portfolio investments and financial loans with a maturity of less than one year is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia under the SAA, and bringing domestic legislation into line with international standards in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing is recommended by the Organisation for the Control and Prevention of Money Laundering. In this context, amendments and additions to the Law on Accounting, Audit, factoring and gambling can also be observed. These amendments are intended to concern the Council of Europe's recommendations, namely the Manival Commission, on the actions and measures to be taken by the state in order to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. In particular, the amendments relate to the business of non-financial entities in the sense of the prohibition of criminal convictions, both to legal and physical persons, to be founders and owners of companies registered for the provision of services in these areas. When we talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, the main objective of the amendments is to enable the industry that uses oil derivatives in its production process to release excise duties on certain oil derivatives. This will ensure a more stable and continuous production of our industry's process with a reduction of costs in the processing industry sector. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the clear and priority objective is to create even more efficient, transparent and economical tax administrations, or tax administrations, not only in terms of tax collection, but also in terms of better quality provision of services to citizens at all levels of organisation. The law proposes a more modern and economic order of the tax administration's business functions based on electronic business, which will ensure the networking of all tax administration's organisational parts and faster access to tax transactions both for administration and for citizens, but also for legal persons. It must provide greater legal certainty and restore confidence in the tax administration. Therefore, the transparent and professional work of the tax administrations is a necessary condition to strengthen citizens' confidence in the entire system of state administration. Let me remind you, at one of the previous sessions, we adopted the Law on Electronic Administration, which practically obliged all parts of the state administration to increase their efficiency by using electronic business, which will certainly contribute to a greater cost of business. The tax administration is required by this law to establish a single information system for local tax administrations since 1 January 2019, which will uniquely keep records of established property taxes and other taxes, as well as of their collection. This ensures transparency and increases the responsibility of both the tax administration and the taxpayers. The law also stipulates that the affairs of the tax administration relating to the issue and confiscation of the power to carry out exchanges and control of trading operations will be taken over by the NBS, which is also foreseen by the amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act, which we are also talking about today. The second regulation on which I draw attention is the law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax and the provision relating to VAT refund for food and baby equipment. The deadline for the application of this right is extended until 30 June of this year, i.e. until the start of a new law on the financial support of families with children. Given that the population policy is one of the most important priorities of our government, I would like to mention and, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to support the new measures to be taken by the Government of Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, in charge of the population policy, and to commend the active work of both the Council for Demography. Justifiably, from such intensive and seriously designed measures of population policy, we can and expect better effects in the fight against white plague in Serbia. We have agreements on the agenda today, and I find them very important, so before it comes to international agreements. Namely, by confirming amendments and by supplementing the Convention on the Temporary Import of ISO Standards as an international standard, it has been supplemented by the conditions of marking freight containers during transport. It is easier to use carnet cargo sheets using any official UN language in English or French, as well as to make all formalities related to the provisions of this Convention possible by electronic means. I would like to emphasise the importance of a financial contract for the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, which continues to modernise rail traffic. This section of the railway, primarily as part of Corridor 10, is of paramount importance, and its reconstruction and modernisation removes several problems in rail traffic in this part of Serbia by excluding narrow throats, as well as the problem of the railway node by building a bypass. This direction is part of the European corridor and is very important, because the transit that is being achieved along this route connects, above all, Serbia with Bulgaria. I note, however, that the Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Sofia route has been part of the EU study since the 1990s and implies building a high-speed railway. I firmly believe that this project is also familiar with President Vukic, but also with the Prime Minister and all ministers, who, I am sure, will make an effort to achieve his realisation as soon as possible. When it comes to the Zemun Technical and Passenger Station project, the guarantee contract and approval of the contract extends capacity and improves the quality of the Zemun railway delpo. By increasing the capacity of the railway system in Serbia, it will allow the reliability of the rolling stock, as well as its longevity, which will affect the quality of services, and thus the increase of rail passenger transport. The fact is that Serbia is strategically defining and relying more and more on renewable energy sources and that there are more current projects in this context. One of them also launched the EPS, which is a project for the construction of windmen in Kostolc, the 66 megawatt force, which will be able to supply 30,000 consumers with electricity. For an investment worth 97m euros, 80m euros will be provided from the German Development Bank loan signed by the EPS. As Energy Minister Aleksandar Antic pointed out recently, renewable energy sources have no alternative. It is something that brings us the future, and we will all, or at least hope, wake up one day in Serbia in which all energy will be produced from these sources. At the moment, projects worth about three billion euros are being implemented in Serbia, the EPS is a leader and is approaching the amount of two billion euros in project values. For the implementation of this project, the EPS will provide about 15m euros in own resources. Another extremely important green energy projects is a programme to boost renewable energy, namely the development of the biomass market in the Republic of Serbia, which will be realised with the financial support of the German Development Bank and the Government of Switzerland. The project will ensure that ten heats in Serbia go from fossil fuels to the use of renewable energy sources, i.e. biomass. These very favourable loans ensure that Serbia turns to using its natural resources as soon as possible. On the other hand, this is also important for local self-governments that will build heat, but also for the general population, because it will help to develop awareness and launch as many similar projects as possible that will improve our biomass market and contribute to the protection of the environment. When it comes to the loan of Serbiaagas, the previous discussions have heard criticisms which, I am free to say, and they do not have a very good basis, so it is precisely seen that it is not about new borrowing, but only about changing creditors as a result of the Vojvodjanska banka and MBG lising agreements. I will take the opportunity to point out that Serbia has done positive business and ended in 2017 with a profit of 16.7 billion dinars. This allows, according to Serbian Director Mr. Bajatovic, that Serbiagas has quite enough resources to realise the most significant projects related to the distribution gas network. Finally, most of the proposed laws have already been spoken of by my fellow MPs and I want to, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, to point out that our parliamentary group will be pleased to support the proposed set of laws we held at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32520	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. Dear Members, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and six minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I ask the authorised representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups to report for a word, if that's what they want. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here's a colleague of Ciric's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32522	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we had a debate on the 19 laws that were proposed before us. I think we are witnesses that in this session we often pass the code of order without a previous plan, and we often witness that these laws are not applied in practice as they should. I will start with an analysis, according to the most important law, through which all other proposals are broken and through which we can analyse all other bill proposals, which is the bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. And few of my colleagues and colleagues talked about the bill, Mr. Secretary mentioned and talked about it. In principle, I can say that this is an important law that can regulate relations, especially hierarchical relations between republican, regional and local self-government authorities. On some examples, I will give you just an analysis of this law, the proposed law, and what will happen in current, important topics in this period, but also in the future. It is important to read where Article 1 says - this law regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems and the medium-term planning of species and the contents of the planning documents, which, in accordance with their respective competences, propose, adopt and implement participants in the planning system, the interconnection of the planning documents, the process of establishing and implementing public policies and the reporting obligations on the implementation of the planning documents. So this is about public policies and the level of the Republic, the level of AP and the level of local authorities. When this law is passed, and this will probably be the beginning of next week, it will certainly affect a very current topic that is now present in the public, which is the concession of the Belgrade airport, it is happening quite vaguely around the Constantin Great Airport in Nis and many other things that I will show right at the analysis of certain points of this law. This is about the harmonisation of the local government's planning documents, the province authorities and the republican authorities. What's going on in Nis about the "Nikola Tesla" airport project. I will illustrate to you through the history of investment in the airport, what has been happening in public policies, and how this law will affect exactly what should be the mature decision of a state responsible for both the Republic and the local level. In 1986, the city of Nis invested in the construction of an airport from its local resources. The city of Nis and local self-government had their own property at the time, and that is one of the public policies we need to talk about in this assembly. So local self-government managed their property and had their own property. In 1997, following local elections in 1996 and 1997, when the then opposition and coalition won together in the largest number of cities and municipalities, a law was passed in 1997 on funds owned by the Republic of Serbia, when the entire property of local self-government was transferred to the Republic, ownership of the Republic, and users, cities, municipalities and public enterprises. What does this matter? Here, here, in Article 2 of this proposed law for which you will vote, at point 5 says – managing public policy systems is the process of planning public policies, analysing the effects, preparing and adopting planning documents, coordinating, implementing public policies, monitoring the implementation of these policies, evaluating the effects of public policies in order to review and improve them, improving them on the basis of findings, evaluating the effects, as well as reporting on the effects of public policies achieved. So, what that meant for local self-government and participation, I think it's important, Mr. Minister, I expect your position and your answers as a representative of the government on this subject. What did that mean for the development of local communities? Because the basic value of this law, and you talked about it, is the participation of citizens in decision-making, decisions concerning their future, decisions concerning their development projects, so citizens organised at the level of local self-government. So, with 1997 in the last century and taken away property, after 2000, which you're talking about all the worst from your positions, it's headed right back into the possibility and participation of citizens in making decisions that are important to their environments. Unfortunately, this did not go as effectively as possible, and only in 2011 was the proposed law on public property, which meant returning property to local self-government, cities, municipalities and public enterprises. So, in 2011, we adopted, I wasn't in this session at the time, many of you were sitting in these benches, the Law on Public Property, which is returning property to cities and municipalities, because it's an important decision and I'm sure we agree on it, because later, since we have defined the deadline of application, Mr. Minister, since 2011, for three years the registration of the property of cities, municipalities and public enterprises that were then taken away from them in 1997. Unfortunately, there was not enough efficiency for this entry of property, so here at this meeting we brought only one member to change, and that is the extension of the time limit to the next three years. And we've done it twice. So, we double extend the time limit of applying the Public Property Act. What am I talking about? I think we need an answer on key issues, especially when we're talking about this law, open issues, which aren't close enough to the public. I think we should have an open debate here about facts and the truth. Among other things, and for this reason, the citizens of Nis have raised their voice, just protecting the property of the city of Nis, who, in accordance with the Public Property Act, has entered his property over the land and the airport "Nish". At this point, and that's the fact, the city of Nis owns that land. So, you need to get out of it. When we talk about the planning documents, it's one fact. The second fact is that the city of Nis and the City Assembly, the legitimately elected representatives of the city of Nis, is legitimate and I am talking about representatives from our coalition majority, so the representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party are also the mayor and director of the Nis airport, so here I am not in favour of the directors of the Democratic Party, or the presidents of the municipalities or the City Assembly, but I am here in favour of the interests of the city of Nis and respect for the laws we have adopted in this Assembly, which is the Law on Public Property. For this reason, I call on the institutions mentioned in one of these laws and the draft laws, which is the State Audit Institution, an independent institution that we will choose and at this session, to accompany the process of legality of transposition if the Nisha City Assembly adopts a decision to transfer the airport's assets to the Republic of Serbia. So it should certainly be done in accordance with the Law on Public Property and I think we need to talk about it. Many of you mention money. Of course, we should talk about that too, and this is one of the things and public policies to talk about. One of the arguments for the transfer of Nis airport ownership to the Republic was that the city of Nis did not have enough money, there is not enough funds, that it was in a financial crisis to meet the contractual obligations towards the Serbian Army. And that's what we need to talk about. There are contracts that have been signed, and the history of this relationship is rich. I think it's important to mention here in front of all of us, because that's part of the definition of public policies that we should talk about, which is that the Nis airport in 1999 was destroyed in the bombing, that there were 27 unexploded bombs left with uranium charges, that it was an ecologically huge problem for the city of Nis, that it was a security problem, just a kilometer or two from the centre of Nis and that it had to be solved anyway, and that at that moment the property status of Nis was military-civil purposes. At that time, the Norwegian government was ready to support our project of airport reconstruction, and above all for the reasons of security and environmental and physical and each other, and for the reasons of future development and the city and the entire region of Southeastern Serbia and financed the project. The condition then of the Norwegian government, with negotiations with the military then SR Yugoslavia, was that the status of Nis airport should be transferred to the status of civil-military, so that we could accept these sixm euros in donations from the Norwegian government and that the town of Nis would participate with threem euros in the dinar equivalent, in order to resuscitate both Serbia and the entire city. I think that, first of all, the people of the Serbian Army did it heroically, with a construction operation, and effectively, for the nine million euros, they made a major step forward and the possibility of future development of the Nis airport. I'm saying this because it's necessary to determine the facts. Because we talked about this reason why the city of Nis cannot further invest in the Nis airport, which is to establish the relationship and the town of Nis with the Army of Serbia. A contract was mentioned with Vojsko, which is not related to the airport "Nis", which is the barracks "Buban Heroes" and the settlement of Novi Nis, signed in 2011, precisely at the time of the yellow ones, and this is said, at the time when Nis was Mr Simonovic from the Democratic Party, but it is true that the contract was annexed in 2016, with the presence of Minister Mihajlovic and then the mayor of Perisic, and this is a relationship to the project and continuity of a project that is important to the city, where the city then took the obligation to deliver 30,000 squares and hand over to the use of Serbia's military. The issue is precisely the public policies of the city of Nis, as well as the Republic. In this regard, and again and again on this plan, I call on the State Auditing Institution and I think we can agree on that, because I did so on the last Finance Committee, which is that the State Auditing Institution determines this real financial relationship and the mutual obligations of the city of Nis and the Army of Serbia, at this point. The city of Nis, with this annexation of the contract in 2016, therefore, at a time when you are in power, has received a bank guarantee, according to my information, but it should support an independent institution, to 10m euros for good performance of jobs, which will be enough to meet these conditions, because the current mayor, at least in public we could see it, said that the city of Nis, due to the lack of billions of dinars, is able to continue the exploitation of the airport and cannot manage it because of its financial situation in local self-government, and only these 10m euros activated guarantees would be enough to meet that condition, because 10 billion is equivalent to eight and a half million euros. I think that we can agree on that, that we need only objective data on the basis of which we can make the right decisions to create and local policies, as well as regional and republican policies. This is the point of this analysis and call to independent institutions, which is primarily the State Audit Institution, to establish the full truth about the legality of the future possible decision on the transfer of ownership of the airport to the Republic, but also on the existing mutual financial relations between the city and the military. So these are two important aspects. When we talk about planning and respecting representatives in the Niš City Assembly, and yet they are representatives of the majority of the adequate majority and in this Assembly, therefore, your colleagues and fellow citizens are in a position to bring planning documents on the development of the city, I don't know if you, ministers, are familiar with this, but this document on the development of the Nis airport on the medium term, which is defined by this law, was brought in a month and a half ago in that same City Assembly, for the development of airports from 2018 to 2028. Therefore, representatives of the citizens of Nis, your colleagues and colleagues of the party, entered the Assembly and voted and voted on the document on the development of the Nis airport from 2018 to 2028, raised their hands and said in the plan that the airport is self-sustainable at this time, that it is possible to invest from its own revenues, that it will work with profit. After all that, they get into a situation where they get the government's conclusion. Now, where is it, Mr. Minister, the co-ordination between the government and local self-government in the adoption of planning documents? Did you even know that local self-government has brought such a plan document on the development of its own city and the future of its city that after only a month in that same Assembly they get paper and a proposal to decide on the award of assets to the Republic of Serbia airport? What about all the previous documents and all the previous plans? What will happen under this law and will they be able to make that decision if we adopt this law? I think it would be a good idea for you to interpret it and tell us what the decision is and what conclusions it was made on the government itself. These are just some of the questions that are being opened in this particular case. So much about this law and I think it's enough, because here, 16 minutes or 17 we're talking about it, I think we need to talk about some other laws, but this is illustrative, because we need to see and think about how future decisions are going to be made and in accordance with this law. We also have a set of other laws here, and we also mentioned the DRI I have called, and now I repeat that call, which is also necessary to establish the legality of the transfer of assets and financial relations with the Army of Serbia and the way the whole process will be done, but we have seen something that is important for all of us in Serbia, which is how budget funds are spent in the Republic of Serbia. In the latest report by the DRI, on the Finance Committee, we saw this in public, some of my colleagues were talking about it, it was found that around 720 billion dinars were spent on funds that were not in line with the Public Procurement Act, and it is obvious that this level of funding of six billion euros in 2017 is something that should concern all of us. I'm not accusing anyone here because I know they're gonna jump and say it, so it was in different times. Yes, it was, but it is necessary to speak openly about the fact that six billion euros were reportedly spent under the law in line with the report of an independent DRI and that this should be spoken seriously. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister also spoke of duties here, and I think it should certainly be mentioned, and these are guarantees or transfer guarantees for "Srbigas" and EPS, therefore. These are not new responsibilities, but it is also important to say, in accordance with this law, that we have applied the Law on Public Property and Transfer of Property and the Charter of Assets both for "Srbigas" and for the EPS, and for other public enterprises as well as for cities and local self-government, there would be no need for the guarantee of the State in this sense, that they are corporate, that they have been entered into, and that they have become societies, companies that can be in charge of themselves and in accordance with the law, we would now not need to bring guarantees, and thus directly lend to the budget. The fact is that in 2012, in the middle of 2012 when this coalition came to power, the public debt of Serbia amounted to 15 billion, that even at the moment we heard 23.5 billion, that it was 8.5 billion, at one point it was 25, so 10 billion more. It's good to cut that debt, but the inherited debt was 15 billion and it's important to say that too. It's good to shrink, talk about the Mastrict, talk about the relative public debt ratio with the gross social product, below 60% at this point in time 59.5, but the inherited 15 billion debt at that time was about 45%, 46%, at that point, exceeded that limit of 45% of the public debt in the gross social product in 2012. We also have to act in accordance with our law that limits this relative relationship between public debt and gross social product to 45%, not 60% as prescribed by the Mastrikt.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32523	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32524	Dear MP, I also have an obligation to answer this question to you, since you are talking about one period while I was Minister of Defence and was at the Ministry of Defence, where, of course, first Serbian citizens must know the contract signed in 2011 for the sale of the barracks and made the city of Nis bound by the Ministry of Defence, but also to the performer and investor. And the investor was already in trouble, where he was already in trouble from that moment on, where he began to delay his investment from that moment on, which, of course, is the rule of the city of Nis, is an additional problem because it was the one from that investment where he was about to provide some opportunities to the Ministry of Defence, or the Serbian Army. When we talk about an airport that was a mixed airport, you yourself know that the airport in 2014, I think it had 1335 passengers that were registered, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the airport as a secondary airport which is very needed by Serbia to have a far enough distance to be backup airport, Belgrade airport, in some cases, and that investment in that airport will not only attract investors, that it will allow better functioning and Belgrade airport. That it is better that Belgrade airport is better to have a backup airport in Serbia than somewhere outside our country. In 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia invested three and a half million euros and raised the number of passengers to 331 thousand. Of course, the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to invest more money in the next period to increase that number of passengers there, but I think we have one replacement of the thesis and one misstatement of those citizens, and I don't think they have that intention. We're talking about the state of Serbia here. We're not talking about some foreign country. We are talking about our country, our investment, and I think that everything here that is the state of Serbia belongs to all citizens of Serbia, including the citizens of Nis. The city of Nis has problems, as you said, we can now talk about both the genealogy of it and how it was created, but the city of Nis to function would require it and only service what it needs regularly, which is, say, wages, maintenance and so on, but something that is expected of it, if we want to have this number of passengers and if it wants to increase the number of passengers, or the quality of its service. It's among other building towers, it's new lighting, it's renovating the runway, it's a system for managing in poor weather conditions, and it's an arrangement of a business building, which you agree already has, to say the requirement to be renovated. Do you really think the city of Nis should focus on some other things, raise the city of Nis or focus as if it were a primary thing? I'm telling you again, Nis Airport is not going anywhere. It belongs to the state of Serbia, belongs to all Serbian citizens. The state of Serbia wants to invest in the airport because it wants to attract more investors to the city of Nis. Nis got in the previous period what took 20 years was not present in the town of Nis, which is new investments, arrivals, employment of people and so on. In order for the airport to function, it takes people to travel. You need these people to have salaries. It takes these people to live. They need to go somewhere, and they need that city to work, not just primarily to have an airport that will exist to have it. I think that if the citizens of Nis, a large majority of them understand it, realizes that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to collapse, but rather to improve the work of Nis Airport, and certainly improve the quality of the service, but also the fact that Serbia can boast as a country that will have two airports that will be, I say, high categories. Nis airport will never be Belgrade airport, but it should be big enough to be backup and big enough for the state of Serbia to have two airports. Few countries in the area have two airports that size. I think if we think carefully now, you'll realize that I'm right. I think that when Minister Mihajlovic was downstairs told them exactly what you're saying, public policy, that we should work together on it, the city of Nis should work with a restoring ministry. She said she has a plan to build the tower, build and invest in the tenm-euro airport itself. Ten million euros to get into the airport, but not to exist, not to be nice, but to be functional and so that we as the Government can offer it in a portfolio when we bring investors. Let's tell them that you have an airport that can be transitory, which can be transportable, which can be a passenger, where big planes can land and that some things can get quality when it comes to the quality of investors themselves. We must also step forward with Serbia's investment in the economy at some point, of course year by year, seeking to bring more quality investors. These high-quality investors, among other things, are looking for more. To pay our people more, they're looking for some conditions to be better. We're past I think that period, which is somewhere behind us, when enough to say – here's your land and that's that. These are not the investors Serbia wants today. Serbia wants more quality investors today. I think the city of Nis deserves it. After the tobacco factory, after the mass of other investors who came, I think the city of Nis deserves, since it has a strong electronics industry and in the field of information, perhaps the future electronics industry, all of them will require some more modern transport than these. So, I don't think we should just turn this thing around and think that we're speaking different language here and that the government of Serbia is against the city of Nis and against the citizens of Nis. On the contrary, the Serbian government is working equally for the city of Nis and for every other city in Serbia, and so we will continue to work. These public policies are exactly that way. When we were preparing, there was a mass of things in this preparation that we have, in some ways, started to introduce a system of planning, that is, what this law foresees. We know that there will be some problems, especially in local self-governments, and especially in adapting them to some completely new thinking that things can't be brought ad hoc, but that they have to be made planically, that we all have to work together if we want to have success. There is no place for a local to do otherwise than the government, that there is no synchronisation with the government, that it expects some support from the government, and that it expects the result without having any responsibility. On the one hand, there is a responsibility, but on the other hand, there is a government obligation to talk to them and make joint plans. I always say, this law when it starts to apply, the MPs will see what the government wants from the government to the locals, what are the plans where you will be able to criticise as the MPs whether we should or should not have done something, whether we should have done more or less and to criticise our deadlines, and then it is the government's obligation when it presents it to you, to meet all of this with the citizens of Serbia and to be responsible for it. This government is not afraid of that. If we were afraid of that, we wouldn't be suggesting this right now. It could've gone without this, because you didn't expect it. We want our work to be more responsible, to be more quality, and we want to be more responsible to the citizens, because we think that this is the next step that the government needs to make contact with the citizens of Serbia. I'm telling you, we had here, I see when it comes to problems, in implementation, the mass of problems that we assume will happen, but we didn't leave it as a problem, we put it on the right-hand side of how we're going to solve it. One of the things is this one. You can't plan somewhere in some local self-government ad hoc, that you don't have a plan, an analysis of the financial effects, about seeing what you want, whether it's in agreement with government policy and whether you can service it, or whether you can finance it. If something like that happens, our ugly past will happen, which is that such projects fail, become a hole, become some skeleton that's gonna be on some field that we're all going to make fun of alive. There were these, you're nodding your head, but I can tell you, but we're not going to open other things now that happened when some local self-government, some cities were opening something where they didn't plan to make a deal with the government to know how and how they could do it from the beginning to the end. Had it been luck, had there been communication, had the real plans been, had there been a responsibility, perhaps the citizens would have enjoyed it today, some kids were looking forward to it, but unfortunately, it doesn't exist now, and that's something we have to erase. This is the government's responsibility to the citizens, the government's responsibility to the National Assembly, but this is also the responsibility of local self-government and the province to the government. We will persist in bringing this back to life and applying it. It will be the best guarantee for citizens, on the other hand, which is one idea and leadership of this government that money is spent transparently, that our citizens see literally every penny that is collected from taxes and contributions, on which side it has gone. When it comes to lottery, let's know where that money went. If we do cancer, then we won't have a dilemma about whether we should have a legalized lottery in Serbia and how and how we will get out of it. Then we won't win, the revenue from all that goes away somewhere, and the lottery is going down, which is what's been going on. You know that. It is simply impossible to have a lottery that has a profit of X where you give 50% to the state and 50% to the rewards and you show at the end of the year that you are at a loss, it is simply impossible, unless you have a responsibility, a plan, and if you do not work synchronised with whoever is above you, and that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia by hierarchy. The government needs to come before you and say, "That's it." Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic: I volunteered as an authorised representative, please. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32525	First, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic as an authorised promoter, and of course you will be entitled to the replica, as he has waited for me to give the word to the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ciric has absolutely mixed everything in his discussion. First of all, in 1986, when Nis Airport was founded, there was no state property, and in particular there was no property of local self-government and it was SFRY under the constitution and by the laws of SFRY there was only one form of property, which is social property. In 1986, Nis airport was formed as a social enterprise and this social enterprise at the republican level, not at the Nis city level, but at the level of the then SFRY. That's the first thing you've done wrong. The second thing you did wrong, the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia was not brought in 1997 but was brought in 1995. Years. So that was before your so-called. The coalition Together, won, among other things, the government in Nis and when Nis became the legendary Zoran Zivkovic. What is more important is that the DS is trying to make a new affair with Savamal, i.e. to create a problem where it is not there, because they have no other policy, because they can't propose anything, as far as the economic development of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, because they don't have any answers, neither the political or economic issues that the citizens of Serbia are facing today, then the Nis airport was caught and now they've become allegedly defenders of Nis airport from some evil and corrupt government of the Republic of Serbia that wants the citizens of Nis to take away the airport. That's not true. What DS won't say, and I'm going to read it now, is that the problem occurred in 2010 when the famous contract between the town of Nis was signed by Mr Simonovic of the DS, and I don't know where you were then, Mr Ciric and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 4 of that Treaty states – unless the city of Nis terminates the procedure for the construction of apartments under Article 1 of this Treaty, within the deadline provided for by paragraphs 5 and 6 of the same article and until the end of that period, the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, 21% of the gross building area of the newly built residential space, is required to pay the amount to the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence on behalf of the compensation, which represents the market value of the ‘Buban Heroes’ barracks complex in Nis, established by the Act of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration on the day of the damage, and converted into euro according to the official middle course of the NBS on the day of the assessment. Mr. Ciric, on today it is 64.2m euros. That's the damage the DS has done to the town of Nis. The next question is now asked – what would it be if the Serbian government respected the provisions of the contract you signed in 2010, folded the tabak and sued the city of Nis for 64.2m euros? The city of Nis would have been blocked, the town of Nis would have been bankrupt, as Serbia would have bankrupted in 2012, or in 2013, if you had stayed in power by some chance. Therefore, stop fooling the citizens of Nis that you are a great defender of the airport from the Serbian government. No, the Serbian government is helping the town of Nisa by taking a huge burden off his back. Constantin the Great Airport remains in Nis. It will continue to be used by the citizens of Nis and citizens of all Serbia, but only the city of Nis will have no obligation of 64m euros to the Serbian government today. That's what you're not going to tell the citizens of Nis and you're using every possible opportunity where citizens get together, 100-200, to say – we support it now, we're the leaders of these protests because Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government wants to take the city of Nis, or Konstantin the Great Airport in Nis. So where do we take it? Bulgaria? In Hungary? In Croatia? He'll stay in Nis only it'll be a much more developed airport. The state will invest in its airport and we won't have to pay more Montenegro Airlines, Wind Jet, and we didn't pay everyone to land at the airport. In your time, you had to from the Nis budget and from the Serbian state budget to grant subsidies to foreign airlines in order to land at any time at the airport in Nis. Do not forget that near Nis airport you have an airport in Pristina "Adem Yasari", you have an airport in Skopje and you have an airport in Sofia. In order to attract foreign companies to land in Nis, we had to give up the money. We had to grant subsidies to foreign companies in order not to land in Skopje, Pristina, but to land in Nis. This is your successful economic policy. You destroyed Constantin the Great Airport in Nis, or it would have been ruined if the Serbian government had not given huge funds since 2014. The fact that the airport is currently in plus, if we exempt from this 64m-euro obligation, it is not thanks to the fact that Constantin the Great Airport itself is doing well than thanks to the fact that the Serbian government has been earmarking significant financial resources for the airport for four years each year and it is fair if the state finances the operation of the airport to belong to the state of Serbia, and the state of Serbia is both the state of Nišli and the states of Belgrade and the countries of Suboticians and Valjevac and Kragujecan and all other citizens living in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32527	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The People's MP Goran Ciric has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32528	As mayor of Nis, I am proud to have participated with all people at the time from both the Serbia-SR Yugoslav Army and the city in the reconstruction of the airport, extracting 30 backlogs of thousands of kilos from the runway, unexploded and rehabilitating 30 craters. So it's a heroic job that people did and we didn't destroy that airport. We raised him from the ashes. What's important is what happened in 2008. It's also part of the policy we've been running here since the '90s like DS. It is a European path, and it was one of the conditions for raising the number of passengers, signing contracts with locust companies, signing free sky agreements on a major open European sky project, and this was a prerequisite for a growing number of passengers. Investments, since we're talking, and you have ten minutes, and I can answer everything you said, so we know that six months ago an investment plan was adopted. So the government mentions 3.5m euros in its investments and will not invest in the tower either in Nis or Belgrade. The SMATSA agency has already adopted a plan and a loan agreement has been signed on the construction of these facilities, and a tower at the airport and modernising light, landing in conditions of fog of 13m euros. Independently, these investments will take place beyond the Serbian government. What you're saying about the 60m-euro contract and the 60m-euro debt, once again, here we can call together the DRI and establish the city's obligations, the city's mutual obligations, the Serbian Army since 2000. Let it go through all the contracts that have been signed, but I'm telling you there is a bank guarantee for the good performance of the job at the facility and on that plan the "Buban Heroes" barracks. Activate that guarantee. It's not done by the previous or present mayor, who are from your majority. I call on them to do so, but I think it is important that we talk about it and talk about facts, only facts and investment of both the Republic of Serbia and the city of Nis, about the structure and everything invested in that airport. Once again, I say, I'm proud of what I did for that airport as mayor of Nis, because we raised it from the ashes along with all those people, with congratulations on what was done by signing a free sky agreement, free flying, because it's a way to raise the number of passengers. Once again just for a little while, I think that we only agree here and not only here, but also in many other things, and that is the question of development, whether Serbia is developing from below... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32529	Thank you. I've extended your time of replica, you've seen for yourself, to complete your thought. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32530	First, it does the exact information that citizens should have, which is that it is true that it is sold and you are constantly talking about the bank guarantee. This government doesn't work like you, to fool someone, to activate a bank guarantee, and then we can charge ourselves, but we also have to take care of a good job. The city of Nis expects a large investment from the investor in terms of building apartments, universities, etc., everything he was obliged to invest and was extended by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2016 and concluded an annex contract precisely for the reason that when a man entered into all this he had not quite had the right information from the mayor at the time what the bonds were and what he would have to do. That's what caused her to be late. Who were we supposed to punish, the mayor who deceived him, the one who was late and the most suffering from Nish citizens, that they didn't have what it was supposed to be to be investment, new apartments, a new home of health, a hospital, a university, a shopping mall and everything else? The government has estimated that it is better to give him a chance, help him with the investment, because it will bring new people, new investments, new jobs and everything else. When it comes to the airport, you were the mayor, why didn't you invest in that airport? You couldn't because you were down. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been in the positive for three years. (Goran Ciric: We invested. You invested, the airport was down, the city was down.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32531	You'll get your word, don't worry. Just let the minister finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32532	How much debts were when you left the city of Nis, you know that well. The government of the Republic of Serbia has invested three and a half years in investments, making subsidies. I'm telling you, 3.5m euros has been invested to make sure that what you boasted about 1,335 passengers rise to 331,000 and what MP Martinovic says doesn't go anywhere, it remains, and that airport will continue to be called the airport, but there is one other thing I need and you probably don't remember it, at this time we agreed to see how with the town of Nis to casar "Philip Kljajic", which the Ministry of Defence has, we put into office to be a university. We have a lot of nice buildings there. I think it's the best news for the citizens of Nis, that they're going to have a modern building, a modern university, that they're going to have a part of the city that's about to be university, where they're going to be able to build apartments for those students, where they can be a new center, maybe a new electricity industry, see what we're going to do and how we're going to do it. You know yourself that the city of Nis Kuburi with space when it comes to colleges and universities. Serbia's military believes Nis is Serbia and wants to help the town of Nis and then we agreed to give it to the town of Nis. What are we supposed to say - no, it's someone else's land? Is that local self-government? Is that Serbia? What's the difference? We didn't have any dilemmas. I was the defence minister, we agreed on one minister of justice, Minister of Education and Minister of Defence, and we just need to agree on the city of Nis is and in what way exactly by implementing public policies, as and how, the city of Nis can't go alone again, but building a university downstairs means Serbia. We're investing in our citizens and we want to do it, we're not asking Nis for anything, just a better life for Nis citizens, and that's one of the things that's going to make their lives better. It's the university. And I think it's better to talk about how to put public policy into operation, building a university part of the city of Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32533	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. (Marian Risticevic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104 and Article 106, and I'm going to ask you right now to vote. And any injury you do from now on, I'll advertise in the future. According to Article 104, paragraphs 1 and 2. - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name and function, ie, if he is insultingly expressed to the parliamentary group, or to the political party, these are the first two positions. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. First we have to meet these two attitudes first. The replica can't last longer than two minutes. You've allowed the replica for three minutes. You gave it unfounded. Next thing you know, in article 106. - during the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way than any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. You allowed Mr. Ziric to throw away for an uninterrupted minute. So, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that you are lenient towards the opposition, but in this lenientness, don't go too far and I ask that the Assembly in the day to vote on these injuries be declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32535	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. So I am holding this session in the best possible spirit of parliamentaryism. I did extend my time to my colleague Kiric, as I did to everyone who appeared on the basis of the replicas and injuries of the Rules of Procedure today. It's my right just to have a proper debate today. You want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? (Marian Risticevic: Yes. - Yes, you do. Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank Mr. Ciric if he really participated in the demining of Nis Airport after NATO bombing in 1999. Some of his party colleagues instead set up locators, he hopefully didn't participate and I congratulate him on that. As for the Free Sky Agreement, Mr. Ciric, in your time, you from Nis sky above the land security zone were able to watch only on television, and the Serbian government led by Aleksandar Vucic regained complete control of the airspace above the land's security zone. I don't even understand your commendation with the Free Sky Agreement. The sky has become free since the SNS came to power and since Alexander Vucic became Prime Minister, and the sky was closed when you were in power. And that's why today, Serbia's planes, Serbia's armies, and I see that it bothers you, some of you, can fly freely over Presevo, above Bujanovac, above Bear and protect the safety of citizens living in that area. We couldn't see it in your time. What you failed to answer, Mr. Ciric, is what would happen if the Serbian government sued the city of Nis for unfulfilled obligations under a contract concluded at the time of the 2010 cry for power, and the debt, I repeat, is not small at all, amounts to over 64m euros. Instead of suing the city of Nis, we invest in the town of Nis. And the town of Nis, as Aleksandar Vukic said, will become a regional centre, not at Serbia's level, not at the level of four southern districts in the Republic of Serbia, but a regional centre within the meaning of the centre of Serbia, Macedonia, Bulgaria, that is the policy of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32537	Thank you. Right on the replica Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32538	I think this is the way to talk about people from the DS and those who wore a uniform that in 1999 is neither human nor correct, especially not here, and I'm going to invite you to here each of us and personally plead and say how he contributed to the defence of the country in 1999? If you're accusing me of locators, it's at least inappropriate and I really can't pick that word. In 1999, I spent as chairman of the city board of DS in missile units in the area of Podujevo. Otherwise, I'm the backup captain. I think it's time for you to stand up now and tell me what you did in 1999, like every one of us here. I will not allow you to accuse me in such a way and I want to go from myself and my role and my personal contribution to the defence of the country in 1999, but also in 2001, to the beginning of the reconstruction of the 1999 bombing. Yes, I was mayor, I participated in that Nish airport renovation, and I am proud of it, and proud of people, first of all, the SR Yugoslav deminers then and all the people in the city of Nis, from the city administration who participated in it, and all those people who had demined the space around the airport. I think that you owe an apology, go first from yourself, from your life, from your participation, I think that in that way we would be honest with each other and go, we're talking about facts and the truth, and in a way that we try to talk about arguments, when we try to talk about facts, you get into a debate that you try to destroy people on a personal basis, entering both family and personal relationships. Here you have completely missed, in 1999 my participation in that war can only be proud.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32539	Thank you. Right on the replica of Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32540	You're older than me, you've got a higher rank. You're the backup captain, I'm the backup supporter. In 1999, I unfortunately couldn't defend Serbia with my rifle, I was a student, I graduated from Law School, but what I want to say is that in 1999, I supported the government that defended Serbia from NATO aggression, unlike many of you who called for NATO to hit Serbia, it wasn't the government that collapsed as soon as possible, and it was the official DS policy in 1999. I didn't say that you personally set up locators, but that some of your party members did, after all, are in the National Assembly itself and confessed. They say -- it was an honor to set up locators because I knew what NATO would hit more, rather the regime of Slobodan Milosevic would fall, or rather we would come to power and you came to power. When you came to power, what did you do in 12 years of your reign? You've ruined every living thing in Serbia. Among other things, you've concluded this unfortunate contract. You say the Nis protests have no political character. The entire bolument of these opposition leaders from round two has moved to Nis. There, they walk on Nis every day. Every day they walk around Nisa and Sasa Jankovic and Borko Stefanovic, and I don't know what they're not called your leaders anymore. We're waiting for the Wolf of Jeremiah to return from America. There's one on Twitter that says there's a nice cherry flower in New York. He was in Arizona the other day, now in New York, waiting to return to Serbia, now he will also support Nis citizens of Nis in the fight against the evil and corrupt government of Serbia, who wants to take the city of Nis and take it to Arizona.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32541	Thank you. Comrade Kiric, I'd like to ask you to close the circle of replicas. (Goran Ciric: Why? ) You had four replicas, therefore, more than a colleague of Martinovic. If we continue at this pace and in this tone, NATO bombing, Milosevic's government 20 years ago... (Goran Ciric: He mentioned me. We are completely off the subject. You replied, Dr. Martinovic made his argument when it came to the role of 1999, and then I understood that... (Goran Ciric: In such a way to accuse someone of setting up locators... It's not you. Thank you for understanding. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. (Jorge Vukadinovic: I won't now.) Don't you want to? Okay. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32542	I didn't start talking. I was starting to get hurt by the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state is a community of people. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I think I should finish first.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32543	Go ahead, go ahead. I'm asking my colleague not to throw it out of place. You know that's... (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32544	The state needs to protect people, but people need to protect the state. That protection should be mutual, and if it's not there, then we're at risk of no state. When there's no state, there's no community of people. The state is a trench. What used to be a castle, a bar around the castle, it's today a state, defending, but the state needs to be defended. The state thinks Nis is part of it, that Nis is her city. Part of Nischli thinks the state isn't theirs, just part of Nischli. That part, I'll take advantage of, since the minister of police is present, that if not now, answer me at one of the next sessions, are these protesters, Protestants or whatever they are called, did they report these public gatherings in accordance with the law, on time, 72 hours before these meetings? The law is the same for everyone. The law must be respected. The law is the law, however much support it is, says Valtazar Bogisic. That's why I insist that I be answered. Whether these public gatherings in Nis are registered in accordance with the law or not. Given that certain state officials, MPs participate in these protests, opposition leaders who have more than they have voters do not interest me, but I am interested in whether special adviser to the Post Office of Serbia was on undeclared or on illegal protests?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32545	Comrade Rističević, come back to the topic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32546	I'm in the middle of something. You've missed, Mr. Chairman, that the Nis Airport is being talked about by everyone. I'm as much on the subject as everyone else has been.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32547	Please respect the Rules of Procedure, as you just suggested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32548	I think you'll respect him. I insist that I be given the right to speak in the same way about Nis Airport, as was said by a former colleague who only comes from Nis. They spoke of those who turned Nis into a valley of famine and then fled from Nis. That's why I want to know who the fellow citizens are, the colleagues who defend Nis here. Is it Nishli or are they Belgrade citizens? If someone with their fellow citizens defends Nis Airport, and lives in Belgrade and within a few months, how long was the director of Post Office, buys a 111 square-square apartment in Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32549	Please, colleague Risticevic, it has nothing to do with the agenda and the tax laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32550	It has something to do with Nis Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32551	Keep going. You can talk about the economy, about the airport in Nis, but not now... I have to warn you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32552	Don't be nervous. If someone talked for 20 minutes about Nis Airport, and I kept quiet the whole time, you didn't interrupt it, you were pretending dead, so don't interrupt me either, otherwise you won't finish this session. That's what I'm telling you. (Radoslav Milojic: Whoa! ) Stop throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32553	Only you shall proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32554	I'm going to advertise to you the breach of the Rules of Procedure so many times that you're going to have a hard time finishing this session. Please don't interrupt me. I'm asking you, I'm asking everyone here-- did anyone talk about Nis Airport in a way that nobody bothered him for 20 minutes? Therefore, according to all these laws, the collection of income spent on Nis, the collection of VAT revenues, excise revenues, I ask you – is it true that the state has singled out 50m euros for the Nis Clinical Centre? So when the state makes you a clinical center, then it's a good state, it's your country. From the revenues collected by the state, just to remind you, of these same excise duties and VAT and other public revenues, the former government collected 824 billion in 2012. This year 1,180 billion. It's 356 billion more collected public revenues, VAT, excise, etc. than the former government collected. That's how their apartments broke down, so Zivkovic and his speechmate became Belgraders. Those 356 less collected less than or three billion euros were taken, shared by someone, that happened before the change. counterpart Obradovic was right when he said money was pumped out of this country, but he was wrong, not out of the budget. This happened until 2012 when those who pushed him into the census ruled. Bojan Pajtic, as I recall, and the others. It's a bastard not to mention it. So, by 2012, it's $51 billion, but it's been exported through an offshore company of wild, predatory privatisations. That's what he forgot to say, of course. Speaking of raising funds, incomes, they need to answer us and where they've spent revenue from excises, taxes, etc. (Radoslav Milojic: Are these parliamentary questions? Please don't get it. This is where Miroslav Aleksic spoke of some of our abuses. Speaking of which, let's ask about the Trust Fund to improve the resources of the Triestean citizens. They used VAT, excise, etc. Is it true that he, the wife, the mother-in-law, got the father-in-law from the public revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget... Where did 356 billion leak? I'll explain. Is it true that they spent it on the Human Resources Fund, fostering old faces 54,726,976 dinars, which resulted in criminal charges? Is that why there were less than 356 billion or 3 billion euros in the budget for the collected revenue? He's probably gone to see a cherry flower in Washington. There's nice cherry in Serbia and they're blooming, you don't have to go to Washington. So they spent money on VAT and excises, and that's on the agenda. We're trying to raise as much money as possible, and the Wolf Potomac had a allowance of 25,000 euros a month. He had a allowance. That's how they spent the money. Next, he spent three and a half million dollars traveling in five years. So they spent money on VAT and excises. That's what DRI needs to determine, while we're at her place. How come someone spent 2,000 euros on trips a day? How did someone spend 70,000 euros for one flight? That's where they owe us the answers. Mr. Bosko Obradović was inspired here, no one interrupted him, spoke, and Mr. Martinovic said that I will answer all his questions and I will try to prove that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the revenue from the excise, VAT, etc., which is in the agenda, that the electric action is from campaign funds, and you certainly know that the funds that are not spent in the campaign are returning to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that they will not be returned to entrepreneurial stores that are not in the VAT system, means the VAT, which automatically creates the abuse of money laundering and tax evasion, to the electrical works of the Republic of Serbia, to the entrepreneurial stores of 5.665,000.00 dinars, repair of the computer 9.698.000,00 dinars, my God, as much as the mountain of computers has been repaired, probably larger than Avala, the legal services of 3.260.00, my God, as if they had defended him in The Hague. Entrepreneurial stores, some Mrs Tomic etc., 3.900,000.00, Jefimija design, 3,400,000.00, Jelena Manić 2.790.000,00, Branislav Simidzija, Ivan, Verica Cvianovic, these are the entrepreneurial actions that you know are not names, so are kept, so are the revenues, i.e. expenditures, i.e. the funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia that were to be returned. You'll think it had nothing to do with them. You're damn right it is. Here is their electoral list, all mentioned gentlemen and entrepreneurial shops are from the electoral list, so let's say Katarina Mihajlović 161, Dragan Manić 91, Kostadin Mihajlović 139, Zvezdna Arsenijević 199, Nevenka Tomic 71, Jelena Lajetić 17. So, it's about entrepreneurial actions, interestingly, that it matches the candidates from the 2016 electoral list, and the funds were pumped on 27 April, 27 May, 27 March 2017, again, on 24 May, 9 June, 12 June, 11 July, just to show you that the funds for the election campaign were to be returned to the Serbian budget and that, in such a way, some say, children can have lunch, have bread, etc. So there's a scheme that shows how the money was pumped up and today we've been listening to the whole lecture from the gentleman who accused us of pumping 59 billion euros. However, 51 billion dollars turned out to have been pumped by the former regime's party through wild predatory privatisations, in which over the Shore Company transferred it out. This is not our claim, nor the claim made by one of our NGOs, but by Global Financial Integrity, which found that so much money had gone away. That's why the Nis airport isn't finished, so the DRI can't determine where the money was given, where the 5.5 billion were intended for the military. I'd think they might want us to block the city of Nis and thus they're returning power to Nis. As -- now we're going to force the republican government to activate those guarantees, we're going to make them look for their 5.5 billion, how much money the military has been looking for there, and then if the state government is blocking the city of Nis, then we're going to tell them that they're enemies, that they don't love Nis anymore from themselves, and how much they loved Nis it shows that valley of hunger and escape to an 111-square-square apartment, and Mr. Zivkovic has 200 squares on Vrakar, in downtown Belgrade. That's how much they're nosy - they're nosy as they need to be. I see that the one that changed once, to be a councilman in the City of Belgrade, Borko Stefanovic, who changed both his name and his residence to be a councilman in the City of Belgrade, will soon become a niche himself and he himself will defend the airport in Nis. Speaking of airports and public revenues, I must also tell you that the KCS cost 50m euros and that the citizens of Serbia paid it with pleasure, because they consider the city Nis their city, whether they live in Novi 32/2JC/LZ Karlovci, and I love my New Karlovacs, and I will not escape to Belgrade in the city center, nor will I, as the director of Post in a few days or several months, buy an 111 square-square apartment and I will not buy an apartment, as Zivkovic did, of 500 000 euros at the 200 square-square Vra. So when someone loves their environment, then don't run away from it. In parallel with KCS, from public incomes, VAT and excise duties, this country has moved 30 per square points to Nis, as I recall. This investment bypasses or bypasses around Nis cost about 100m euros, it is built into Nis by citizens of Subotica, citizens of Novi Sad, citizens of Valjevo, etc., with pleasure, because everyone loves Nis, whether part of Nis hates Serbia or not, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and how they love the city of Nis, separates through VAT, through excises some part of the money so Nis has not only an airport, so that two or three people die at those spring crossings. So, with pleasure, it's our honor to spend 100m euros on the city of Nis that he gets a bypass so people don't die there anymore. It's an honor for us to have you KC Nis, that everyone in it can be treated, both from Nis and around, so if you need to get out of Bulgaria, which is mentioned here, and I hope it will be charged. Finally, to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the country's love for Nis has certainly been shown, the love of the state with which I started with the citizens of Nis, for all the citizens of Nis, and it is also time for the citizens of Nis, those who did not stay in Nis in the valley of Nis to know that they show at least 10% of the love that Serbian citizens have for Nis, that so much they build their love for the rest of Serbia outside Nis. So, I think Nis is our territory and it's worth investing in. Finally, to conclude that the state, as I said, is a community of people, that we should all share bread and fate, that we should not be as selfish as those who robbed not only Nis, who made every city out of every place in Serbia a potential valley of hunger.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32555	Thank you. Dragan Vesovic, the right to replicate the party's president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32556	Mr. Chairman, very interestingly, in a lot of ways I agree with my predecessor, they just always turn harder. For example, I'm an entrepreneur, I was on the list, but I'm not on that list. Marko Atlagic: He didn't say. He didn't say, that's right. If we want to talk, we agree to conduct an investigation, but, you see, we are not able, colleagues, to conduct an investigation, because we are not in power. You're in power, all that stuff you said you did to see who took it, when he took it, how he took it, and that 59 million and the former government. That's exactly what we're talking about. We're trying to get you to process it. Here, we stand at your disposal. This way, throwing stones at people who aren't there, mentioning families, names, it's also against the Rules of Procedure, and I'm really surprised that we let some things get in the way of individuals, and some things happen to those who aren't in power and who aren't able to verify that we don't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32557	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. Marijan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you're certainly my witnesses, I didn't even mention the gentleman because he wasn't here. I didn't list names, I listed entrepreneurial stores. It's not my fault that enterprises are being run as an entrepreneurial store called Ivan Cvianovic, that's what it was called. Enterprise store Ivan Cvianović, Borca 4.200,000, 23 March 2017. Verica Cvianović PR entrepreneurship shop, 24 May 2017 3,800,000 more Cvianović Željko, 19 May, 849.000, then 20 April, pardon, another 849.000. A total of 9,698,000 to repair IT computers. Not to be used only in the Assembly, if the police minister knows this issue, I don't know, but I'm in line with my obligation, if he thinks it was a crime, I'm obliged to inform the authorities about it, which, of course, I did. But, for example, Branislav Simidzija, Borča PR MK-TEL electro-work, MK-TEL, an independent electro-work of 5.665,000, 27 March 2017, 24 May 2017, etc. I don't want to advertise these individuals, I just want to point out that those who say that they are the most honest and the most beautiful, etc., that their NGO had the right to finance from "Colubara". My wish was to show that Kolubara is not a state that finances NGOs or this kind of organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32559	Thank you. Does anyone want a word from authorized representatives? The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 109 requires you to give the predecessor a warning, as it is said in one of the views - if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. We heard a whole series of names, a whole series of money. I don't think it really makes sense to label some people, I repeat, there are competent authorities, and I particularly don't understand on what basis the predecessor received a replica, if neither he nor the committee group were mentioned, but it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32561	Thank you. I gave you a replica right on the concept of his speech. As for the mention of families of MPs, officials and all others, of course, we agree and try not to make it a red line in parliament, when it comes to debate in parliament, but simply if there is no drastic insult and labeling, of course it is normal for a parliamentary debate to be that as well. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32562	Article 103 and 107 of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the government, I have said several times, at least twice, that it is not about individuals as individuals, but that it is about entrepreneurial actions, which unfortunately, by reading their names, I must read, say, Ivan Cvianovic's entrepreneurial action. That's how it's registered in Borca. So all of this I've read is entrepreneurship, which are registered to the APR, which is to be checked out. So, I'm also asking my colleague to take a nice one and check it out, take a look at everything I've read as they're called entrepreneurship stores, and if he finds out that someone isn't registered in the APR under that name, here I am willing to resign, but I'd like a colleague to do the same if he finds himself running entrepreneurship stores under these names that got the money. I think the sum of money that a company store got, under suspicion that it was public budget money, was supposed to be returned to public revenue, that there was no abuse of personal data. I haven't heard that personal data includes the sum of the company's shop based on fictitious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32563	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has a colleague, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32564	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group will support a set of laws that are before us today. This is a great set of laws, which are in the best interests of Serbian citizens. He worked on a set of laws with a serious team of experts and experts in the area of finance. Also, working groups have considered all the proposals, comments and a good part of the proposal has become an integral part of the law, making legal solutions significantly improved. Before I refer to the laws themselves, I must point out that I followed closely the course of the session during yesterday and today, and I failed to notice any serious criticism of the laws, which once again confirms that the legal solutions are excellent. I just heard our contribution rate is 65%, that's not true. Contributions are calculated on net earnings, i.e. on the gross basis and are 37.8%, and not 65% as I heard during yesterday's debate. I also heard the loans we're taking are unfavourable. Credits are extremely favourable. According to the ministers, we are taking loans to the development goals of the Republic of Serbia, meaning building infrastructure, building roads, building apartments. So when we use these loans with the aim of building roads, we automatically reduce the cost of production in business producers, and thus have a positive impact on improving the competitiveness of our economy. Also, one of our colleagues mentioned that we didn't have enough time to prepare for the session. We've had enough time. It was said that the Law on the Plane System was completed at the end of 2017, not finished in 2017, but much earlier. Namely, the plan system law has been in the process since September, so we've all had enough time to prepare for the session. Before I refer to the laws, I must commend the work of our government. Serbia and Serbian citizens today have a government that is responsible for working, a government that works in the best interests of Serbian citizens. We have a government that is equally monitoring the work and results of work both in education and in health and in units of local self-government and in the realisation of infrastructure projects and in external trade. So we have a government that won't leave for generations that come to the accumulated debts that it was, nor will it leave the generations that come to a low standard of living. Our government is all about making Serbian citizens live better, and Serbian citizens today really live better, whether they want to admit it or not. In the previous period, we achieved impressive results. In the first quarter of 2018, we have a surplus in the budget of six and a half billion dinars. Then, in the first quarter of 2018, we have a 3.9% GDP growth. We were able to cut the unemployment rate in half. Let's just remember that our unemployment rate was about 26% a few years ago, now it's about 13%. The aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to lower the unemployment rate below 10% by the end of 2018. This will be achieved by constantly introducing stimulating tax reliefs for the economy and thus stimulating employment. Also, we managed to open over 170 thousand jobs, over 60 factories, brought IKEA to Serbia. Why am I saying this? Because IKEA is a status symbol for living standards. Serbia is on a map of 49 countries where IKEA operates. Also, when it comes to foreign direct investment, we managed to increase the foreign direct investment rate in 2017 compared to 2016 by 26.4%. Another good step is our government took, when it comes to workers' earnings, we were able to raise the minimum labour price by 130 to 143 dinars and thus have an extremely favourable impact on aggregate demand. Because when we have a growth in aggregate demand, then we have an impact on the increase in supply, and thus on the expansion of production capacity and create conditions for job creation, and this also has a positive impact on employment. Also, I will deliver some good results of work and the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia is responsible for its policy and is working responsibly, in the interest of all Serbian citizens. I'll remind you that the inflation rate is three years in a row, and it's going around 3%, which is good. We also have domestic currency stability, a dinar nominally stronger towards the euro. I will deliver another good result from the National Bank of Serbia, which is that we managed to raise foreign exchange reserves by 916.9 million dinars in 2017 compared to 2016. Why am I saying this? Because that's how we made sure of the external earthquakes. Namely, we have a cover for importing goods and services in six months, if any external earthquakes occur, but we have coverage of 248.3% for the debt due in the current year for payment. Some have criticised us as the primary products dominate the export structure. I'll give you one piece of information that defuses it. The total exports are not dominated by primary products, but are medium-stage products and their participation in total exports is 31.6%. I will also point out that we have made a shift when it comes to high-tech products and they are taking up a significantly good share of the share in total exports. Today we are conducting reforms. We care equally about foreign and domestic investors, about attracting both foreign and domestic investors. Through digitisation and the creation of a stable legal framework, we attract foreign investors. On the other hand, we do not neglect domestic producers, we stimulate them to invest, by constantly adopting subsidy programmes by the government of the Republic of Serbia and thus stimulating investments by domestic producers and domestic investors. I will point out that we have managed to reduce the profit-to-peer gap between the private and public sectors, which is extremely favourable. So we're stimulating private sector employment. Our economy wants to develop on a healthy basis, not on an unhealthy one, as it was before. Our government is taking care of both the old and the young alike, both children and adults, and it is all working and making every effort for the citizens of Serbia, I repeat, to live better. Today, the citizens of Serbia really live better. I will take the opportunity to congratulate all Serbian citizens who went to the polls. They had a good assessment of their support for our President Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. Our results and the results of our government speak of citizens being able to assess. When it comes to the draft law on the Serbian plan system, the new legal solution addresses the issue of an inefficient, non-transparent and inefficient plan system. I will present another information – everything we do, we are doing transparently, and this says that in January 2015, for the first time on the website of the General Secretariat of the Government, we published a report on the work of the Government. So all we do is transparently and Serbian citizens can also monitor and evaluate the results of our government's work, and Serbian citizens know how to assess well, which they did when they went to the elections. When it comes to the Law on the Plane System, it is tasked with solving the accumulated problems regarding planning and managing public policies. I'm going to put out one defeating data - that the planning documents we had in the previous period did not contain quantitative targets, only 40% contained quantitative targets and these objectives were highly optimistic, almost unrealistic. Also, we had a situation where the planning documents were made by officials of lower enforcement skills who did not cooperate with senior executives, and that led to the situation that we had planning documents that were contradictory and we had situations where there was a duplication of the planning documents. A new legal solution should solve all these problems by enabling all stakeholders to engage in the creation of planning documents, start with citizens, from economy, from scientific and research institutions etc. Before the adoption of any planning document, an impact analysis will be carried out, as these planning documents affect citizens and only afterwards will the planning documents be adopted. The new law introduces for the first time indicators to measure the objectives achieved on public policy management and the introduction and revision of the planning documents. So there's going to be an audit if that's what the need is for. Finally, we will have a unique information system for planning, monitoring, implementation and coordination in public policy management. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, a new legal solution will lead to a free movement of capital through a portfolio of investments, where the resident will have a choice in investment. So it will decide whether to invest with a resident or a non-resident economic operator. The revenues that will be made, if invested in non-residents in EU Member States, will also be spent on us, which will positively reflect the stability of the domestic currency, because we will have an increased supply of foreign exchanges. On the other hand, non-residents will also be able to invest with us and we will have increased demand for domestic currency, and this certainly reflects positively on the stability of the domestic currency. This legal solution also has a positive impact on the continuation of a positive trend in traffic growth in the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Let us remember that in 2017 we had a growth in traffic on the Belgrade Stock Exchange by 52.71%, and I will also say how nominal it is, that is 67 billion dinars, and about 553m euros of traffic was achieved on the Belgrade Stock Exchange in 2017. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, this, in my opinion, is an excellent law and an excellent legal solution because it will permanently free producers from the processing industry using oil derivatives in the production process, will permanently release them from the obligation to pay for excise duties. This will certainly have a positive impact on economic operators, so when we have the release from excise duty we also have a reduction in the cost of production, and when we reduce production costs, the price of the products themselves is reduced, so the competitiveness on the market is increasing. When we are more competitive on the market, opportunities are also created to create new jobs, that is to expand capacity, which means that the effects of this law are extremely good on the economy. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, the law also provides for tax relief, which will reflect positively on both economic operators and families with children. Finally, when we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, amendments and additions are aimed at curbing the grey economy where penalties for taxpayers operating in the grey economy zone are tightened. This legal solution is excellent. On the one hand, the Tax Administration will in some way be the public service of its taxpayers by providing them with legal support with respect to the rights and obligations of taxpayers, and for the first time it is possible for smaller taxpayers to be notified by SMS of their tax obligations before sending the notices, and this will certainly have a favourable impact on corporate tax collection. Also, a new legal solution offers the possibility for taxpayers who are overburdened, i.e. have high tax obligations to pay tax liabilities to 60 equal wars, with the possibility of a grace period of 12 and 24 months. You start the measures to curb the business in the country of the grey economy will continue in the future, and this certainly gives good results on the real picture of the number of employees, which was our biggest problem in the previous period. Tax and excise tax on products is increasing, so we have income in the budget and is certainly positively reflected in investors because a favourable legal framework for investment is being created. Finally, the adoption of all these legal solutions does not entail any cost either in the economy or in the citizens of Serbia, which is very important, on the contrary, will affect the strengthening of legal certainty and the continuation of a positive trend in attracting both foreign and domestic investors. All the excellent results I've delivered at the beginning of my presentation, as well as a set of these legal solutions that I'm almost sure we'll adopt in the coming days. They say Serbia is on the right track for growth and development, that Serbia has gained reputation in both the region and the world and that Serbia is a reliable and good partner for all countries that have genuine and good intentions to invest in the Republic of Serbia, whether it is China or Russia, whether it is the UAE or EU member states. I thank the ministers with my associates for their work, for making and preparing all these laws, because these legal solutions are in the role of the best interests of Serbian citizens, but also in the function of continuing a positive trend in growth and development. The SNS parliamentary group will support a set of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32565	Thank you, colleague Charapich. Djordje Vukadinovic applied for the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32566	Thank you. I know it's about the end and the patience and the time, but I'm not going to use, of course, all these 20 minutes at my disposal, but I'd say a few things and look back at one part of this debate as well as what happened yesterday. We can pretend it wasn't there, but yesterday we had an unpleasant situation in the assembly, where the opposition was forced to leave the meeting. I think we could all get the best of a lesson from both sides, and on the other hand, I think even our colleagues in power could see and realize that it's not good when there's no opposition in the Assembly, no matter what there's not much on either side right now. I hope so, and I think that even today's biggest part with a few sad exceptions, most of today's debate actually went through one constructive or relatively constructive tone. Of course, you cannot expect the opposition to praise or at least not always praise the proposals, as, of course, it is clear that the ruling majority will mostly like what the government proposes. But we must also have a measure in this, and my insistence is not a sign, nor a weakness, nor an excessive peace of mind, although I am a peaceful man, but simply a sense of how institutions function. Simply what we sometimes turn parliament into, I say in the first person of the plural, we, of course, think too much of those who are both more numerous and more responsible for the state of parliament, but God and some of us on this side, let's say that, it's definitely not good and it collapses and destroys the institution. I don't want to talk about it anymore. Simply, I draw your attention to my colleagues and, of course, the leadership of the Assembly that is not easy, sometimes I simply think that yesterday, colleagues Markovic and Djurisic received their punishments on the justice of God, but I have not heard whether it was, as some throw-offs of another kind, and then I certainly can't say hello. But what was heard publicly in the transmission, and it was simple that that man asked to establish the quorum, after which the president realized that the quorum was gone, and she was just as justified as the chairman of your parliamentary group, they were angry with their MPs, because we can't expect the opposition to fill your hall and give you quorum. To go back to those laws and mentioning it was an airport. I wasn't in that group that went and defiled for Nis, although I think I should give Nis and the city of Nis and develop the airport and, of course, the state should help them in that, it's not necessary to take ownership of the airport, although I don't think the end of the world is that the state has property and other things, I'm generally state-owned and I support it, and I've always opposed problematic, and even some quite problematic privatisations. I think that the problem has been made much earlier, not with Nis airport itself, but with concession for Belgrade airport, there is a key problem and it will show, before and after, where a firm that has done good business, which had potential, which was pride and which even these evil predecessors did not even want to sell, privatise, is now being given in concession to a French firm which, by the way, has indirect and property and concessions and interests and at the Pristina airport, and then I guess that's why Nis is in some way disturbing. I don't think the state of Serbia needs any interference and I believe that they will continue to invest, either take over property or give up ownership. I think Constantine the Great Airport will continue to invest in that airport. As far as the argument is concerned, no one will take the airport anywhere, this is often directed when it comes to this country bought by some suspicious investors and especially Arabs. The same is said, no one will take the land. Well, they won't take water, they won't take a bath, but it's generally not good to sell and give up ownership of what we don't have to give up. Not to be constantly criticizing, here to look back at yesterday, today's signed IMT contract, the tractor factory, it's an example of a good measure, and hopefully it'll end well, we don't know, but it seems to be something to be commended. It would have been better to develop that brand as our home brand, but in this cooperation with an Indian or a Serbian-Indian firm or owner, it doesn't have to be bad. Also, this investment in Smederev, the hardware store, with the Chinese, looks perspective, I hope that's how it ends. So, it's not about us, me or anyone criticizing everything that the government does, I'm sorry there was no longer a chance to praise any good solutions in these legal solutions. No one's crazy that someone's coming and that the worst government sometimes has to do good, has to do good. Nor does it mean that the opposition's proposals are both automatically and apriorily bad. I am sorry that because of the suspicious and strange policy of submitting amendments and the problematic and unsustainable policies of submitting amendments to the ruling coalition, to the first members, to the first laws, I did not get the last time to praise the Law on Traffic which he defended here or was meant to defend Minister Stefanovic, who was full of good solutions and one that I didn't like where those high belt sentences were, because he can but also does not have to look at it, because now that law is not on the agenda, so I think that those Dracon penalties for non-binding belts, means that the non-binding belts are simply not good and that they in some way indirectly encourage corruption or the possibility of manipulation or too high, because 10 thousand for an explanation in the back seat. It's just that the cops and the drivers know that it's hard to carry out the measure. However, generally this law is good. What I'm saying is don't let us say hello or praise anything that is to be commended and this is now technically, but the important law, or point eight, seems to me, which allows those who are now six months into this transitional period to be able to benefit from some benefit. So this VAT law that allows it, i.e. amendments and additions to that law, is also something to be welcomed. It is something routine, but for those who expect a new one in that period and how important it is. What I can't say hello, which I think even if we adopt, which will, of course, be adopted by the ruling majority of these laws and these proposals, should at least remain in your ear and somewhere in the small brain, is that when you're said more than once, as we've heard today, or now a little time, that citizens live better. You know, let's let the citizens figure out how much better they live. I believe that several hundred thousand citizens live better who are directly or indirectly bound by power but still they will condemn it in the elections, and they have now judged as they have judged, I have an opinion on it, but I say, it is their last. They also heard commendation for the loan, this loan from the German Development Bank, and I am here systematically against and I have spoken with Minister Vujovic several times, I am sorry that there is now no Minister Vujovic who is also an expert and you cannot deny that he is not an expert, because I do not agree with his ideology, which I think is too close to the ideology and philosophy of the economic IMF and the World Bank, but he is certainly an expert in his field. The fact is, these loans were taken under better conditions than before. That's what you said and I agree, but let's be honest and say the conditions in the capital market changed in the meantime. So, simply, now loans are cheaper in general and interest is generally less. Therefore, it is not only a wise and good government policy, but also a change in circumstances on the capital market, so the interest is generally lower. It is particularly worrying, and I am particularly concerned that they are being taken systematically from, above all, even though they are being taken from the Chinese, I must admit, but also from the German Development Bank credits or guarantees, which are related to the EPS, to Elektroprivreda. It looks like or smells to me, none of you are from our ministers here right now, but it may be Mr. Djordjevic's expert on the area, but to me, I'd rather have Mr. Antic, a little step by step, to drag a German partner and a German development bank into it, into some kind of complicity, and then to co-ownership in the EPS, which is the last golden coke and the biggest golden coke of the domestic economy. I have already received guarantees or at least assurances from the ministers that this will never happen and that no one is counting on the sale of the EPS. I don't think anyone's gonna sell it in a piece, but I'm afraid of selling it to a piece, among other things, and over non-refundable loans. It's more about Serbiagas. If he's stopped being a loser now, I'm glad, but he was some kind of black hole for different reasons, among other things, and because he socialized, in some way, losses, i.e. non-payments and citizens and businesses, so we can't always blame the company's management alone, but simply, these most important enterprises, strategic enterprises, each defend and make them some kind of engine of economic development. Yeah, FATFA, of course it doesn't mean anything to the citizens, it's an organization to control and prevent money laundering. So that's something and the reason why at least these first laws or amendments and additions to the law are passed. Mr Stefanovic presented it as a routine thing, that we have to adapt our legislation to these rules of theirs, that it is not about us being blacklisted, that it is not about washing money and misusing it, but, well, simply, for administrative, technical, almost bureaucratic reasons, we now need to do this adjustment. It's, unfortunately, only one part true. The fact is that since 2012 our government and our governments have not implemented this adjustment and the fact is that Serbia has found itself at one point in relatively poor society. I wouldn't say it was just bad accounting or a way to register payment traffic. My particular question for Mr Stefanovic in this regard is, and I will be glad that he confirms or disproves it, may he, on the basis of his knowledge of thoughts or has the feeling that some Arab investments and money from some Arab countries, above all from the Emirates and the environment, have contributed to this suspicion and increased attention to Serbia regarding the possibility, possible and hypothetically possible money laundering, and therefore this observation and this control increased when it comes to Serbia? There are also political reasons very likely and it is mentioned here somewhere, as may also be present. So, there is a suspicion that one part of Arab investors from the Arab world are quite loose and quite elastic, so to speak, interprets and norms and those rules, the fight to prevent corruption and money laundering, and in this light, the paths of these some Arab investments in many European countries are being sought and examined, even by the United States. I told you about the airport. Last thing for games of chance. It's been a lot of fun around here. I really think, and that's what I said to Minister Djordjevic in passing, not to settle these changes. These are technical changes, but here, I recommend to everyone who is in charge of this, I think that in Serbia there was too much lobby betting, that the number of bookies on every corner, literally next to schools, next to kindergarten, and independent of that, there are just too many. Practically, wherever the new company opens or some new board opens, we see a new ad. There's always a bookie commercial. It's just that it's gone too far. It is that some funds are being raised in this way, but I think it is simply not good and I am more inclined to have it under stricter control and far from being abolished or banned now, but, frankly, I think it takes much more stringent measures and I hope that the future changes to that gambling law will then pay more attention to that. Em's ugly pictures, they're ugly scenes, and I think the damage is much, much bigger than that tax and that money that's being poured into the budget. It's just, maybe you should think about some zones, like some countries did. They say it's small Serbia. Well, she's not that small. Perhaps some points should be made where this betting would be allowed and in this way some kind of Serbian Las Vegas or some similar zones that exist in some other countries. At least those ugly pictures would get out of the street and I think there'd be a lot less and ruined families, marriages, careers, because, unfortunately, it seems fun, but we all know or know from the environment that many lives are even, I say, both marriages and families break down and ruin in such places. The state can't stop it, but it can't contribute to that condition. So think about this kind of quasterization of these gambling areas on the one hand and be careful with these new loans, even when they seem attractive, because debt is always an evil friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32567	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32568	Thank you, Chairman. A member of 107 was injured where a speaker at a session of the National Assembly was obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. To talk here about abolishing or restricting gambling, someone who has sought happiness by unfounded large sums of money from the lottery of Serbia is really pointless. I wouldn't get into all this any further. You were required to apply the provisions of Articles 108, 109 and 110 after this. To be honest, whoever this MP represented will not fall to hell either. I am pleased that he is not a member of this parliamentary group, but a member of the opposing group, and I ask you to take care of this in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32569	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Jorge Komlenski: No. Thank you. Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32570	We had an interesting exhibition, I'd say, at the very end of the debate in principle, if it was already over at the end, so I wouldn't qualify and we heard everything, from the Traffic Safety Act to the German Development Bank's loan, but let's start in a row. First of all, as far as the Traffic Safety and Seatbelts Act is concerned, it's not meant to charge someone a fine. I said, "The cheapest thing is for a man to tie his seat belt, because he does not pay any punishment, but he does not bind his seat belt for punishment." The belt is bound for life. We're talking about the situation, I've been looking at this statistics quite carefully, and people in the traffic police were thinking about it, and we've really worked really hard on it, when you think that in 1990 we lost more than 2,000 lives a year on the roads to Serbia. See how many people that are? Two thousand people in 1990 were lost lives, young people, fewer young people, children, people in full voltage, people in whom this country invested both money and schooled them and so on. Today, for example, it's about 520-530 people killed on an annual level. It's still a huge number. So we've reduced significantly, but still a huge number. But when you look at the key causes being less or more the same, it's the speed, the unadjusted speed in the conditions of the road, the overspeed, the alcohol-driving, and that's why, after all, I thank the National Assembly because we've passed a new Traffic Safety Act, which as one of our first measures, we've already been applied in the first month by 30 people for driving in an absolute alcohol state with over two proms. That means these people absolutely can't function. Of course, one of the important elements that experts have found in these situations that was the cause of losing lives was not binding the safety belt. Often there is a false dilemma, which I have listened to in many debates – I, when I do not tie my seat belt, only influence my safety. That's not true. First of all, it is in my interest that this man who drives or is involved in traffic as a passenger or as one of the passengers in the vehicle to stay alive, that nothing happens to him or God forbid he gets hurt as little as possible in the event of a car accident. But if you hit your head while driving, because even when you're a minor, and you haven't tied your seat belt, your vehicle can hit someone else and kill them, because you didn't tie your seat belt. So banding is no joke at all, belting is a very important thing. We wanted, we reduced the amount of administrative penalties by working together here in parliament, we reduced what we thought was not important. If someone is going to lose points, they shouldn't lose points if they forgot to extend their license, but if they don't tie their seat belt, let's go that way, if they tie it up, maybe that day they'll save their own life, not just someone else's, but themselves, which is very important for people to start thinking. So the consequences of the car accident will be milder, there won't be any injuries, and that's what science has proven, there's no speech. We, as next measure, changed that through the Police Act, introduced the possibility that the police as a special evidence store would have the ability to record the camera. So, from the cameras that will be located, not only the cameras that will record the average speed, I'm talking about cameras that will be located on the vehicles of the traffic police and even through pilot camera projects that will be on the uniform of police officers and record and conduct of police officers and, of course, the correctness of everything that happens and in traffic as usual. I think that is important, they have done it in many European countries very successfully, they have done it in many countries of the world and by applying these measures and evidence actions that will in fact enable better work and police and allow us to establish the foundation of objections to police work, but also to what the citizens they are dealing with, we will have the opportunity to control whether they really bonded, not tied up. After all, sometimes people in Serbia fear punishment is more motivation than to stay alive, which is amazing to me, but that's the case. We need to start raising our children, and that's why we introduced it to schools. We need to raise our children that the belting is something will increase the chances that nothing bad happens to them, or that even if these consequences are less. When we start thinking like that, I think people are gonna do it. I'm saying again, they don't tie people's belts so they don't pay the fine, I invite them, they can respect everyone, they can drive according to the limit, they can tie their seat belts, they'll never pay anything, but they do it to prevent serious consequences. Furthermore, as far as we're concerned, there were discussions that were held by colleagues on whether citizens lived better, whether it was ideal. None of us said the situation was ideal, far from ideal, not knowing which country of the world is ideal, but we didn't say it was ideal. Is it better than when 170,000 families didn't work? It's better. 170,000 families, not families close to ruling foreigners, because that's so easy to say on a flat-rate basis, now live better by some who are close to the authorities. When you go to Krupanj, you go to that factory that Turkish investors opened at the invitation of President Vukic to save Krupanj, you were after the flood, even though you could see what the streets of Krupanj, the buildings, the houses, the broken city, were destroyed. On the threshold for people to pack their bags and leave. Then, at the invitation of the President, the investor opened 400 jobs there. Is it ideal, if it's all perfect, probably not, but it's better than when it was zero. 170,000 more people have the opportunity to work to make them happy to have the opportunity to work in many of these factories when Meita opened in Obrenovac, it was the company, one of the first to open in Belgrade after ten years that there was no new factory in Belgrade. In that factory, the average salary is about 55,000 dinars. In that factory, people make turbo chargers for BMWs and Mercedes, driving all over the world. I've set up an example of a factory that's making land today, next to its main-drive plot, a new plant. Why? Because people see, they tried, I'm sure in 2012, after the experiences they had in Serbia with the previous ones, they came in awe and said -- you know, they asked us for this, they asked us for this, we didn't get it, we waited, we were struggling, let's see how it was going to be, they started the first drives. When they saw how it was going in 2014, 2015 and 2016, they opened up new plants, expanded plants, increased pay workers, made things better. Would we all like it to go 18 times faster? Yeah, but that's not real. So what we've been able to achieve is that in 14 months we can return the investment, that what the state gives as a subsidy can return and, yes, I'm sure most people can feel progress. Are people satisfied? No, of course you can always do better, of course people always ask for more, but who are you asking for more? From what you think it can fill you. You can ask for more than Vukic because you know that Vukic can raise you both wages and pensions, because Vucic's government and the state where he's president has a future. That's why you trust people, and that's why you're asking for more. When you don't believe, when you think these people can't do anything, what would you ask them for? You're just waiting for it to go away and say it. It's not coming out of my house. Now you're asking for a better salary because you believe it could be a better salary, and that wasn't always the case. I think it's an important thing. As for the loan, that's where the fake dilemma is, of course. EPS isn't for sale, that's the end of the story, period. With the very story of it, you warm up with the people and now people think – there's something there now. The credit has to be taken from someone. If you take it from the Arabs under the most favourable conditions, the maltenes as a gift compared to the conditions in the banking sector, then it's some blurry business, blurry money. If you take it from the Chinese, now the Chinese will. If you take it from the German State Development Bank, now they're going to decompose you of the EPS. It's no good. It's best if we don't do anything, stay in the office, wait for half four, just so we don't stay a minute longer, go home and do nothing, then we can't make a mistake. When there's no mistake, then our head doesn't hurt, and then we'll say it's someone else's fault, but then there's no development. If Wolf had worked like that, if we'd done so, this country wouldn't have had any chance, but absolutely none. So EPS isn't for sale, there's a point, there's no stuck, there's no buts, there's no rest. We took a loan not to let the EPS pay some of his debts. The EPS has been working with profits for many years as well as four other electricity companies, rather than to increase the capacity of the EPS, to meet the standards that by 2020 we have 27% of renewable energy production and to invest in those EPS production cycles that will bring concrete contributions to Serbia's citizens and this thing is completely clean, but really clean. As far as FAF is concerned, of course it is never pleasant or any of us were happy that Serbia is on the FAF gray list, but somehow it seems to me that in one part of the debate, Serbia is a country where money is laundered, so there is some huge world concern about it. No, I don't. Could we have done some things faster? Of course we could. We did it today, after all. We have begun the adoption of a set of laws and not just a set of laws and control activities, working with independent regulatory authorities, strengthening the capacity of our market inspections, tax police, the work of other state authorities. We have good work of the prosecution and the police to discover money laundering, processing and good judgments in courts in final judgments, judicial verdicts against those persons and to strengthen this work with the seizure of property, of course when proven a predicate crime in money laundering. I just want to tell you, I'm not saying that it's an easy thing, none of us were happy about it, nobody in Serbia should be glad that the name of Serbia is anywhere, but huge efforts are being made by all the people in Serbia so that we, or all the people in the state bodies, and not just the state authorities and the Law Chamber of Serbia and the Note Chamber and everyone else in this process, in order to meet the standards and standards that we show that we really belong in the serious countries of Europe. As for money from the Emirates, not that nobody has ever mentioned it, but the Emirates are big investors across Europe and the United States. Money, I don't want to be an Emirat lawyer, nor is it my goal to give geopolitical lectures... You see now that in the Middle East, in the relations of the United States, Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, which have a certain policy towards Qatar, there is one very solid unity, political unity. So I can say that the Emirates are certainly one of the most stable American allies, not only if they're not disgusted with the money from the Emirates, but they're very happy when they can sell them weapons, and would you sell weapons to a country whose finances you suspect? You'd put them on some list, they wouldn't just be on the list, emirating money is welcome wherever it knocks. He's extremely welcome and they have an extremely good reputation. So they want to work clean, work efficiently, so they've always worked in Serbia. Everything the Emirat firms in Serbia did was very transparent, very clear and that money came when we asked for help. I can say that indeed the great success was then the Prime Minister, our President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic. When we had problems left by our predecessors, when the dollar jumped, when it was growing on the world market, and we had big debts in dollars, billions of dollars that we were taking out at 1% interest from the Emirates, it helped us get back the most expensive loans and not to increase public debt. Our public debt increased because it jumped the value of the dollar, not because we took more dollars or more in debt. It is a long, bad friend, but when someone left you in debt, and you're reducing your country's debt today, then it shows you're serious and responsible. The conditions change in financial markets, but the wise government chooses the option when it can, chooses the conditions and chooses who and how it will work. Today we have a public debt that is 59.3% of GDP, the lowest in many, many years, below the level of Mastricht. In the period when we have implemented many reforms in this country, we continue to implement reforms, we manage to raise the country's economy to a serious level, to the level that we have a surplus, that the state can help, build, ensure that the private sector strengthens, because from there we all receive wages, but also to ensure that Serbia's reputation in the world is good enough for investors to come to this country. It's an economic policy that cannot be challenged. It really exists as a strong support to the government's activities. As a result of these activities, we have more work for people in this country, we always get a little better pay. Do we have a promotion? We've got a lot. I wouldn't talk about where we did everything. Only in this security sector can I tell you what we've done in the last four years, which is huge progress. Minister Djordjevic could tell you what we were doing in the social community, and that for the last six years, and when it was Minister Vulin, and when Minister Djordjevic was there, we did not reduce the social isolation for a dinar, that we did not reduce for a dinar, and let us increase. At the most difficult times, when they left us at the beginning of 2012, when they were spilling, not showing real public debt, because of not showing public debt debts in public debt, when we had such a not-real picture of public debt, at those times there were no reduced social benefits. I want to tell you, the country has found a balance between attracting investors, being a good enough social state, and investing all the time, not throwing money, not spending, not giving people money to buy yachts, and then selling them into a budget or entering a bankruptcy that they will pay for, then all Serbian citizens. No, control. If we give you money for agriculture, we want to get it from a farmer. If we give you money for the company, we want it spent at the firm. If we give you money for production, then be in production. In such a serious way, the state managed to raise the economy much stronger than before. I think all these reform moves, after all, and a set of laws that are before us today, show that we are very serious not to give up, therefore, in all circumstances, that we are seriously and responsibly treating the citizens of Serbia, to tell them realistically what has to be done and when it has to be done and, not because we have to, or because of something we have to do, we want to meet the standard for our country. Of course it's important to us that our country, our people's interests first, be satisfied, then everything else. Once again, just in the end, I found it nice, often heard here the word "EU Directive", that people don't think it's a directive for someone to type in an order or call on the phone and say it has to. The directive is the name of an EU legal standard, approximately as a law. Whether we want something, so it's our decision, it's our government and Parliament's decision. Do we want a better standard for our country, do we want to raise levels? That's why investors come. Would someone come to this country if we didn't fight corruption, if they thought this was a country that swims in crime and corruption? Who would come? No one would come. After all, we had the opportunity to see what there were no investors from 2008 to 2012, and despite the economic crisis there were in some other countries because they did not believe – your reputation level was bad, we do not want to come. Today, thanks to the work of all of us, we have an opportunity to see that the situation is improving. Is it ideal? I'm sure we can do a lot better. Is it much better than we found? Absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-12-0.u32571	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. On what basis, colleague Vukadinovic? (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Minister Stefanovic spoke for 18 minutes and really gave one elaborate. Very dedicated to everything you've talked about and had any dilemmas, I think he's scattered them and explained everything. Thank you. I am taking the opportunity to thank Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic and his associates, for working with us all this time. I ask the Members of Parliament, we have point 20, to remain, and according to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 19 of the agenda. Thanks again. Point 20. - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Milorad Mijatovic, president of the parliamentary group, or does the authorised representative want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Since we don't have a list, we don't have any records. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for this Decision. I thank you for your cooperation, for your work together today. I'd like to inform you that we will continue our work Monday, April 16th, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
