ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29370	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Momo Colakovic and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal FOR A LAW ON PARTIES Consent to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have attended today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Katarina Tomaševic, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Milica Ćatic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry, Vladimir Rebic, Director of Police and Zorica Vulic of the Border Police Administration. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković, Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić, Miladin Ševarlić, Milimir Vujadinović, Zvnimir Djokić, Jelena Žarić Kovačević, Milanka Jevtović, Žuko Žukojić, Miljavić, Milajka Filipovski, Vladimir Orlić, Blaža Knezić, Veroljubljub Arsić, Marko Atlagić, Krsto Mirja Žažažić, Mirjavić, Miha Jokić, Miha Jokić, Nikola Jokić, Nikola Jokić, Nikola Jokić, Nikola Jokić, Marija Jokić, Goran Jokić, Goran Jokić, Goran Jokić, Goran Žkić, Goran Žkić, Goran Žaljić, Marijakić, Goran Žkić, Nikola Žk. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29371	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment to Article 1 which we have submitted - is deleted. We had no intention of making amendments to this set of laws that way. We have submitted amendments to the initial members of this law when we saw what kind of farce the ruling party is preparing, with a desire not to bring amendments and laws to the debate in particular, since these laws have been in the process since October, November of the month, and we have prepared amendments to the Law on Police and to the Law on the DNA register and to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. Two amendments to the Police Act were accepted by the government, which means they weren't written like that. It was a reaction to a farce that was prepared today so that virtually no discussion of all these important laws would take place, that on the first 10 members of the Foreign Law, we would listen to the competition of thoughtlessness and half-tronity. We have decided not to participate in this debate. We'll let you waste your time the way you imagined. The time that we otherwise have left in the Rules of Procedure, we will use to talk about amendments to these other laws that we have submitted. We are sorry that the Assembly is turning into this, it is the ruling majority's decision and I think it would be quite appropriate at the end of this debate to award the most pointless, most half-tronic discussion, Nebojssi from Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29372	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29373	Dear Chairman, I warn you that the injured Rules of Procedure, above all, is the part relating to the dignity of the National Assembly. I think you had to react, give my colleague Djurisic a warning. In fact, the Rules of Procedure clearly allow any MP, any position, any opposition to submit amendments to the draft laws, and thus points to a possible improvement in any legislative proposal. We have also heard insults to the account and to the minister and to the account of the messengers of the people. I don't think you can allow it in the future, but for Serbian citizens, it should be clear what it is. Namely, SNS MPs and the ruling coalition have invested 350 amendments, that is, every MP's right, but I also note that the opposition's MPs have submitted the same number of amendments to this same law. Of course, it is the right for each of us to spend our time discussing amendments and you can't possibly blame anything on MPs. A team of political party representatives who, along with two other parties, could not win more than two percent in the Belgrade elections. The intention is for the minority representing 2 per cent of the country's citizens to silence the majority of the country's citizens. I ask you not to allow it in the future and to give a warning to the People's Messenger next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29374	My colleague, you may have been right in other circumstances, but my colleague Djurisic and his political associates want to portray Serbia as one fascist country in which MPs are forbidden to speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I let him go. They want to show Serbia that SNS and its president, Aleksandar Vukic, who is also president of the Republic of Serbia, are conducting a dictatorship here in Serbia and that they cannot speak, and the situation is completely reversed. They would like MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia not to have the right to speak, and they would like to speak as much as they want. Can you imagine what they'd be like if they were really in power? Well, then we'd see what a real dictatorship is. I ask you to respect this argument of mine and do you want the National Assembly to come out in voting day? (Milimir Vujadinovic: No) No. Thank you. Comrade Djurisic, you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. He cannot be harmed by the Rules of Procedure, for his colleague explained why he felt that he had been injured by the Rules of Procedure, not you. (Marco Djurisic: Give me your word to explain.) ( ) Right by the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29375	Thank you, Chairman. You've injured Article 100. You, as chairman, if you want to get involved in the discussion, then you need to get off the presidency's post, take your word for it, and talk about whether I want to present Serbia as a fascist country or you're building a fascist country from Serbia, so let's discuss it. The only thing you could do according to the Rules of Procedure is to explain to the MP who pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and explained it much more widely, to answer whether or not you think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, not to interpret my statements, which caused his reaction and seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In the future, if you want to answer to me or any other colleague, be brave, be dignified, stick to the Rules of Procedure that you are obliged to respect, answer the word, and then explain whether I or any other Serbia represents as a fascist country or what you are doing introduces Serbia into fascism.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29376	I'll answer you right now. I am bound by the Rules of Procedure to respond to the MP who has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I prefer to say the word, and you, Mr. Djurisic, have spoken two minutes and have not mentioned a single word about the amendment, on which basis you were called, but have talked about the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party. If you want a consistent application of the Rules of Procedure, then I should have given you a warning. I explained why I didn't. Mr. Sarovic, what do you want? By amendment or by violation of the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29377	Mr. Arsic, you're obviously having trouble holding a session this morning. You hurt Article 27 a few times, and you hurt him one more time. If you ask the Messenger of the people what you will now, it is a scandal. You were obliged to react to every mention of the word fascism, and when mentioned by representatives of some Democratic Party and the Serbian Progressive Party. Because it's obvious neither of them have a clue about fascism and don't know what Fascism is. As far as you're concerned, you're in accordance with Rule 27. You're in charge of taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure while you're in office as chairman. You didn't do it. You allowed the ruling coalition MP to talk about everything and everything, to give qualifications as they come to mind, and then you, instead of answering, but not to answer what comes to your mind, but to answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And you're going into some kind of debate here, so that you're giving your opinion. Your opinion and your views are of no interest to anyone in private. You're in the chair's position just to interpret the Rules of Procedure. And you had to limit yourself to the rules of the Rules of Procedure and say whether or not they were or are not injured in any way. And that's what's the point. And you give yourselves the right to talk about fascism, to say, "God forbid they should be in power, so God forbid, they were in power." And the product of these poor authorities is this Rules of Procedure. But the Rules of Procedure that you have been using for more than five years. In fact, the sixth year is running out. You have no idea how to change it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29378	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29379	Therefore, what was the face of their authority is now your face.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29380	Comrade Sarovic, don't put words in my mouth I didn't say. I didn't ask you what you wanted, because I think it's rude and I respect you as a colleague, but I asked, on what basis. That's a big difference. Besides, you didn't attend the presentation of your colleague Đurisic, so you don't even know what this is about. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29381	The amendment itself aims to strengthen the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to achieve this declared goal and overall economic development and the fight against crime. In fact, we have witnessed in some previous period what this work looked like since 2012 when it comes to some previous governments, and we are witnessing what it is now. When it comes to foreigners, I will only make an example of a factory from the town of Suotica, from which I come, where, with the help of foreigners from the Austrian company ATB company, the company was privatized back in 2004, when 2,000 employees of the company ended up on the street. The value of the company has been humiliated and has been sold for about four million euros. These people who ended up on the street certainly became the subject of the state's interest, because they simply became persons in a state of social need. However, as it seems today when it comes to foreign relations and foreign investors, here, I'll tell you only on the case again, Subotica. Namely, with the efforts of our mayor Bogdan Laban, our president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic and the prime minister, together with the ministers, today they are in a commercial zone in Mali Baimok, the same foreigners are working, but they are increasing the number of jobs. So somewhere in March 2017, which makes a significant difference compared to what we had in the North, we signed a contract with a component manufacturing company in the automotive industry, so the company "Continental" opened a new 12,000 meters total for the premises and infrastructure, with 500 jobs over the next three years. This certainly makes a significant difference when it comes to foreign investors in the period up to 2012 and in the period from 2012 to today. This is the objective of this amendment, to show that this relationship with foreigners can be completely different to our economic development and the fight against crime. Thanks anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29382	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29383	Mr. Arsic, you have violated Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You've made a few mistakes. First of all, you said I didn't attend the session in the part where Mr. Djurisic spoke and I don't know what it was about. You can take a copy of the electronic system... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29384	Comrade Sarovic, you can't talk to me about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and my argument. You can't even explain something like that. Nemanja Sarovic: I explain... You can't talk to me about my argument. You can only ask whether the Assembly will plead in the voting day or not. Nemanja Sarovic: I can very well. Don't you? Again according to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29385	Mr. Arsic, Article 103. I'll quote it now, since you obviously didn't remember it. He says, "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and it is immediately after the injury done." You see, I am right, I am right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I am using it. You have no right. The President of the National Assembly gives a word to the MP who points to a violation of the position of the 1st member immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, and you have hurt that. Furthermore, he says - the MP is obliged to state which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what it consists of injures. So when I explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure, it's not any discussion, it's not a replica, I'm explaining how you've made a mess of your anti-business behavior at the National Assembly session. You were obliged to give a true explanation. It's true in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The fact is, I've been present since the beginning of the session and since the moment of the quorum. You can see it in the video and you can also take... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29386	Comrade Sarovic, you're breaking up with me again about my explanation. Nemanja Sarovic: I don't pollute. You're flaunting. You're making up my mind. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I explain how you broke the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29387	Mr. Arsic, I'm reporting for article 32, and I'd like to ask for your attention so that others can see what this is all about. You are misusing Article 2 and 3 of this article which says – the president of the National Assembly in the event of temporary prevention or absence replaces one of the vice-presidents whom he appoints and informs all vice-presidents and the Secretary-General by written means. If the president of the National Assembly doesn't determine which one of the vice presidents replaces him, he is replaced by the oldest. This is the most important - Vice-President of the National Assembly who replaces the president at the National Assembly session has the authority of the National Assembly in the presidency, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. So, not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the head of Veroljub Arsic, but in accordance with this nastaradic Rules of Procedure, according to counterpart Sarovic, who you have been applying for six years. If you have already been appointed by Maja Gojkovic, and I am confident that she should not have done so, because you are not worthy that in the way you are determined to chair the Assembly here...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29388	I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29389	You can give me three warnings, but I'm telling you, you have to run this session in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, because everything else is a flagrant violation of the right of all of us. You've started very harshly, you know, since this morning. For what? What's your day, what's your mood? The MP has the right, especially the deputy head of the parliamentary group, such as Nemanja Sarovic, to protect the interests of the parliamentary group, to protect the interests of all MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups they are from, because what you're doing is the worst possible thing that can happen in violation of the political rights of the MPs, and it should serve you honor, as well as that warning you gave me, and believe me, you are a witness to that, for years I have received... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29390	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I think fellow Djurisic knows perfectly well that he is defending himself and does not need a lawyer, as he is a long MP, so do not underestimate his abilities. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29391	Mr. Arsic, you're... (Maria Obradovic: What kind of experience is this? If you can, Mr. Arsic, as you can see, we are very patient, we are prepared to listen to your amendments, there are many, but please calm the representatives of the ruling majority so that I may...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29392	Get to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29393	Yeah, but just to keep the noise down on this side if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29394	There's no noise on the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29395	Can't you hear her?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29396	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29397	So, Mr. Arsic, you are just a moment after Mrs. Jovanovic reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, first went after another member, and then you remembered and wondered – do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting after the breach of the Rules of Procedure? It's good that you did it, but the problem is that you didn't do it before when I answered and when other speakers came forward and you hurt this Rules of Procedure. You are obliged to each MP, after giving an explanation in those two minutes, to give him the opportunity to, if he is not satisfied with your reasoning, require the Assembly to plead. You didn't do it. So, please start running this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and get it back to normal. There's no reason for this. If you are already so strong, if you are saying that we are promoting fascism, it will best be seen by the citizens of Serbia, but give at least that minimum of rights that we have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to achieve. In the end, yes, I want, by every violation of the Rules of Procedure that I have pointed out, that the Assembly declares itself in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29398	Comrade Sarovic, again you have violated the Rules of Procedure, but I have let you go, and this is my fault because in Article 103 you are calling upon, that the MP has the right to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it is immediately after the injury you have done, and you have talked about your injuries to the Rules of Procedures that you have reported before the presentation of your colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yes, you do. All right. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29399	Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, allow me to look back at what we just heard from some members of the opposition, to ask them not to usurp my right to speak of this law and to submit amendments, to the very rights they have. Your right to say anything about this law is no greater than my right to say something like that. So, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to be in Article 1. The proposal for a law on foreigners adds Article 2 which should read – the law on foreigners should allow future investors in the Republic of Serbia to obtain the necessary personal documents in order to develop and strengthen the defence system faster. I have put up with this goal to strengthen this law, otherwise the already declared policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for overall economic development and strengthening of the defence system. I'll explain why. The recovery and development of economic potential creates an additional possibility to improve human security elements, as well as the security of the state system. The defence and security of each country, as well as Serbia, is conditioned by its economic power. The country's economic capacity is the most important prerequisite for the proper preparation of the security system. The economic power depends on the size, the material equipment, the cost of maintaining the weapons and its combatability at the required level. With this law, we should also encourage foreigners who are potential investors to in some way enable and encourage them to invest as much in our economy as possible, and in order to strengthen economic power, so that we can strengthen the defence system. The policy of the previous government, led by the current opposition parties, which, as a result, have something against us talking, has reduced the willingness of potential investors to take risks and have set, as investors, stricter criteria for funding guarantees. Serbia has lately made a significant effort to prove to potential investors that the stable area is, above all, politically stable, that politics is never again a risk factor for business. In short, and I'll continue, because I've submitted a few more amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29400	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29401	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, although the Law on Foreigners was adopted in 2008 and its provisions were fully implemented, just when these provisions were applied, certain shortcomings were observed and the need for a different, more comprehensive and more concrete regulation of certain issues emerged. Also, over time there have been changes that have affected the need to adopt new legal solutions, in order to overcome the new circumstances and the new situations and how this would be part of our strategic documents. It is precisely because the laws that are of the jurisdiction of the MUP are very important, but still only part of the large legislative system and in close relations with both economic development and economic development and employment problems, of course and with the judicial system, that I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a foreign law. This amendment kind of covers it all together. So I propose this amendment to allow future foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia to obtain the necessary personal documents more quickly in order to develop economic development and improve the development of the judicial system. The aim of the amendment is also in line with the policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a policy of stability, a policy of stronger development of the economic and judicial system, economic development policies and policies of a healthy and efficient society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29402	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29403	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on foreigners, which refers to the ease of obtaining personal documents to foreign investors, in order to protect vulnerable social groups. What I particularly want to point out is that this Law on Foreigners has also been adopted in line with the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the accession of EU countries, i.e. the accession of organised democracies of Europe and EU membership. This is unclear why the political representatives of individual opposition parties of the "yellow company" of the different aggregate state require that Article 1 of the law be deleted. It is not clear to me that they remain for Serbia's entry into the EU and harmonisation of our legislation, with EU legislation, or have they given up on that trip? Looks like that's the other one. What I want to praise, and as regards foreign investment and foreign investment, which concerns a concrete law, is that the law was brought into the spirit of full transparency, openness, co-operation with other state bodies, co-operation with the civil sector, co-operation with the Chamber of Commerce, co-operation with the attorney's office, and co-operation with the Council of Foreign Investors, who were also interested in the adoption of this law. Foreign investors, especially those involved in major infrastructure projects, and how they contribute to improving the lives of each of our citizens. I must point out that the Foreigners Act is directly compatible with other laws, and above all the Foreign Employment Act, whose amendments and additions we adopted in December 2017, which refers to the fact that the employment of foreigners is also related to the recruitment of MUP in terms of the approval of temporary stay. As for the protection of vulnerable groups, I must point out that this law protects in the best possible way the most vulnerable and vulnerable, and these are children, minors, victims of human trafficking, victims of domestic violence and other socially vulnerable groups of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29404	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29405	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Stefanovic and his associates, the objective of the amendments I have submitted is to increase economic development and investment in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. The town of Leskovac, where I come from, is among the first cities in Serbia to go into the field electricity project. This project permanently tackled the problem of irrigation and increased the economic efficiency of the system in the agricultural production process from an economic aspect of energy savings. The field electrification is set at 130 hectares on which agricultural producers are engaged in 221 agricultural producers and the potential within the existing network is 280 hectares. The electricity irrigation system shows its cost-effectiveness in the first year of exploitation. The losses are down to a minimum, and fuel savings are high, because the efficiency of the entire irrigation system allows rational use of electricity energy energy. The value of field electrification works was 65,609,369 dinars and with the participation of the ten % plot owner fully met the expectations of the participants in the project, so that the City of Leskovac continued to prepare new project documentation for four new water users associations. The project was implemented in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management and the World Bank for Economic Development, at a project site covered by three associations of water users and agricultural producers – "South Morava" from Donji Krajinac, "Eko - Food" from Zloćud and "Jablanica" from Turakovec. The City gave direct support to water-user associations through the Urban Administration Directorate and the Agency for Local Economic Development, and through these institutions the procedure for obtaining permits and consent has been accelerated. The government of the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget envisions a new 100,000 dinars for five electricity projects in the territory of the town of Leskovec and a new 290 hectares, as confirmed by Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Minister Branislav Nedimovic during a recent visit to Leskovic. He noted that the town of Leskovac and the mayor of the town of Leskovac, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, can serve as an example to Serbia as a whole that active agricultural policy is being conducted and that local self-government becomes the leader of local self-government, with the largest economic, social, sociological and cultural growth. Information I would like to share with fellow Members of Parliament, elections were held in Leskovac on 4 March 2018 for members of the council of all 139 local communities in the territory of the City of Leskovec. For the list ‘Alexander Vukic – Because we love Leskovac’, 92.93% of the 46.987 voters voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29406	Thank you. Col. Comić, did you sign up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29407	Thank you. I use the time of the mandated representatives of the DS parliamentary group, because I want to say that I want to vote in favour of amendments explained by my colleagues from the SNS, and it is about facilitating the position of foreigners and the position of vulnerable groups, with the hope that you will give me the opportunity to vote for them and that you will not withdraw them before the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29408	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29409	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I submitted this amendment precisely for the reason that I want as much as possible to get the job done to foreigners related to the authorities of the state administration and police, where we at the police station in Srljig last year, together with the Ministry of Police, together with local self-government, provided better conditions for police work, for workers in general in the police working on the issue of certificates and documents related to all foreigners. Otherwise, the aim of my amendment is to provide investment and foreign investors can finance it, to invest funds in undeveloped areas such as the Svrlig Municipality, such as the Gajin Han Municipality, such as the Bela Palanka Municipality and other undeveloped municipalities that have a chance to develop agriculture. Through this amendment, we will have the possibility that foreign investors in the coming period can get their documents easier, that they can invest in these municipalities and through this investment to ensure a better life for all of our citizens living in these municipalities. Finally, my wish is for this amendment, and for other amendments, to contribute to the RS government, which wants every part of our Serbia to develop equally. That's why I want these amendments and other amendments to make it easier for future investors, for foreigners to work on issues, so that they can get their certificates and documents easier and faster, and that they can invest in every part of our Serbia, with an emphasis on undeveloped areas, in mountainous and mountainous areas, in the development of agriculture. Finally, quality products from our space are where we can go out anywhere in any part of the world with these products. In the next period, it should be advocating that as much talk about these developed areas as possible and that it is investing there, because we are witnessing how much has been done in the previous period in southeast Serbia, how much business is opened in southeastern Serbia, in Nis, Leskovac, Vladic's Han, Gadjin Han and Žitoraj. It will also be in Srlig, I am sure because only in such a way to help our foreign investors, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, together with local self-government, have a chance to ensure that all citizens live better in any part of Serbia, but I am saying again, for agriculture and for the development of agriculture, because this is our chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29410	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29411	I thank you, I use the time of authorized representatives of the parliamentary group. And this amendment is a good amendment and I want to vote on that amendment with the hope that you will not withdraw it before the day of the vote. It wouldn't work. To make it easier for foreigners who want to invest is a great idea and like the similar amendments that my colleagues submit to has my support, only with the hope that you will allow me to see that support in the voting day, because I simply can't believe you'll pull them so good before voting day. I hope you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29412	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29413	Ladies and gentlemen, at first I will thank the DS MPs for wanting to vote in favour of the SNS amendments. When DS MPs propose their amendments, they are usually not in the O.R. and that is, of course, their legitimate right. So they don't vote for their amendments when they're proposed, because they're not in the O.R. It is a great pleasure and your knowledge to realize that the amendments tabled by the SNS are amendments to be voted on. It's definitely a shift. Amendment proposed for Article 1. The law on foreigners, in which, of course, I assume you agree, requires a more efficient and faster obtaining basic travel documents that will allow Serbia to function better in a macroeconomic way. When you look at Serbia that is working macroeconomicly by 2013 and before, then you realize that Serbia has completely different macroeconomic parameters and that is the difference. This difference is due to the operation of the SNS in this parliament, but above all the leadership of Alexander Vukic who has a vision that Serbia looks different. These results are work, commitment, knowledge that the SNS invests with its friends in the functioning of Serbia and that is completely different from what we had in the previous period of time. Of course, for that, not only for the amendments, but for the decisions and laws of the DS should provide support to the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29414	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29415	I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. I'd be happy to vote for any good amendment, but I'm afraid you'll withdraw them before voting day. That is why I express my support, for this is what the congregation does. You wouldn't be the first or last SNS amendment, the SRS. For example, Mr Vojislav Seselj had an extraordinary quota amendment back in 2002. I voted for that amendment. I watch what's written, not who's writing. It is your right to believe that I have or do not have the right and what I should do when it comes to amendments, a good amendment improves the law, why don't I say that in the voting day we all vote for this amendment together, but I'm worried that all these amendments will be withdrawn before the voting day. Then we're having a little bit of a problem here we're advocating good amendments. I wouldn't mind if you didn't accept it, and then a day ago to vote for those amendments, not if we weren't present in the O.R., not if we voted yes or no, but if we were to withdraw them from the procedure so that no one would vote on them. Your right is absolute and I will defend it as your right and as a strategy for the interpretation of the law and as the submission of amendments, such as my right to support your amendments. Let me vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29416	Thank you. The National MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 1st Amendment. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29417	The proposal of Article 1 of the Foreign Law is the following. This law regulates conditions for the entry, movement, stay and return of foreigners, as well as the jurisdiction and affairs of the government of the Republic of Serbia concerning the entry, movement, stay of foreigners in the territory of RS and return from the Republic of Serbia. I believe that Article 1 of this amendment should also be added to Article 2 which reads – I should allow future investors in RS to obtain the necessary personal documents more quickly, in order to economic development and the fight against crime and corruption. Why did I feel that Article 1 of this law should be added to Article 2 that I proposed? Foreign investment plays a major role in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, only the US employs 17,000 workers based on its investments in RS, Austria has 450 companies and employs 13,000 employees, Germany has a trade exchange of 4.4 billion euros and German companies employ 37,000 workers in Serbia. The government has rejected this amendment of mine, explaining that my amendment is not subject to the regulation of this law, and I believe that most colleagues will support my amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29418	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth, according to the Rules of Procedure, so I understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29419	You understood my colleague Arsic well. You should follow what the MPs say, explain their amendments. We just heard a few times from my colleague Filipovski that she suggested that Article 1 be added to Article 2. This is not legally possible, and you should draw attention to her to take care of how she explains the amendment if she wants to present the amendment to both the MPs and the public as something that is acceptable. This just says how much order it is actually done just to spend some time and then it can be said that Article 1 is added to Article 2. So the MP doesn't even know that members have attitudes, not that a member is added a new member. If the MP doesn't know that, you, as someone who currently holds the presidency, were obliged to draw attention to the MP that he didn't know to explain the amendment that someone wrote to her, and she clearly signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29420	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. I think it was the most common lapus of my fellow Filipovski. As a longtime MP, you know that when advertising the Rules of Procedure, you should specify a member who is advertised, and you are not. (Verica Radeta: I said, Article 27.) I didn't hear, I'm sorry. We'll check in the stenographic notes. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) Of course, all right. Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29421	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People should certainly use every additional space, whenever it is found, to support those programmes and activities that are directly in the function of Serbia's development and that encourage the level of investment in our country. Of course, good programs of this kind already exist and, of course, activities in this direction are already carried out with exceptional success. In addition to the claim, Serbia managed to attract about 2.6 billion euros of direct investment last year alone, which is more than they manage to achieve in the same way as all other countries in our region combined. This score speaks for itself enough. Of course, the additional space always comes in handy, not only because we need to defend the good results achieved on this plan, and which are seen through a significant number, therefore, many dozens are new factories, brand new plants, a total of 170 thousand completely new jobs in just the last three or four years, but we also need to find good ways to speed up the activities in this direction to overcome these results. Those 170 thousand completely new jobs were an adequate response to Serbia's needs devastated and devastated between 2008 and 2012, most of which, when I recall, close to half a million people were out of work. So the needs for jobs were huge, and they were still high. That is why it is our obligation to seek out good extra space, to make our contribution among other things and to work in the National Assembly. With such activities, we create preconditions for the state to be a modern and successful country, not DOS palanka, as some have only been able to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29422	Thank you, colleague Orlic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29423	I use the time of the mandated representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group to support the amendment, which has been explained as being rejected by the government, hoping to be in the voter's day on the agenda for the vote. Because the procedure by which we exchange arguments in a good amendment, investors have as easy access as possible, why not, is that the government has already made a lot of investors, so it can do this, and the government says – I won't. Then I would like us to vote on the amendment and similar amendments that colleagues have submitted to give a clear message that we want investors to have a privileged position when it comes to the Foreign Law. So I'm asking you to give me a chance to vote in voting day for this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29424	Thank you, colleague Komic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Bosko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29425	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, representatives of the executive government, helps all. I know you've missed me since I've been away for months from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but here I was returned after several months off the National Assembly meeting. I hope that such behaviour will not be repeated by the authorities during some emerging period and that the opposition will have the right to say a different opinion, because I believe that freedom of mind and freedom of speech is the basis of democracy everywhere in the world. Of course, I must take a very critical look at the proposed amendment by counterpart Vladimir Orlic, because it is known that the Serbian Movement of the Dveri and our economic policy consider the subsidisation of foreign firms to be a devastating economic model that has cost us dearly in the previous period. These legal solutions, despite the fact that these amendments of yours are amendments to killing time for discussion and time-consuming the opposition, actually testify that you want to continue that wrong policy. What does the attitude towards foreign investors in Serbia look like, and what does the attitude towards domestic businesses look like? That's what makes me absolutely against one of your amendments. When a foreign investor comes to Serbia, everyone from the president of the state to the president of the municipality bows down. He's got all the doors open, protected like a white bear. He gets free city building land, gets free electricity, water and gas connections. It receives tens of thousands of euros for each newly opened job in Serbia, gets tax exemptions often, and it happens in the end, and we have documented that a number of foreign investors do not even show their business in the way it is fair, i.e. It shows it with a loss, so it does not pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia. Now imagine, we give them our money, we give them all the benefits, they don't invest practically anything, and in the end they even show their loss business, they bring profits abroad to fake invoices, and they don't pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia. What is it like during that time, dear colleagues and respected citizens to whom I particularly address, and especially respected domestic businessmen, I am particularly talking to you, what is the government's attitude towards domestic businessmen and farmers during that time? Can a domestic businessman get free city building land? Can a domestic businessman get a free connection to electricity, water and gas? Can he get the same conditions for business as there is a foreign investor in Serbia, who is protected here as a white bear? The policy of the Serbian Dvora Movement is exactly the opposite of this amendment of yours and your economic policy. When the Dvori are asked and decided, when a new economic policy is in force, the domestic economy will be as protected as it is in your time as a protected foreign investor. Every president of the state, to the president of the municipality, will have to bow down to a domestic businessman and a domestic farmer, because they are filling the country's budget, because they are actually making a key success for the functioning of this country. That's why we insist this is a bad amendment. The amendment continues the devastating economic policy from Mladjan Dinkic to Aleksandar Vukic, an economic policy favouring foreigners, killing the competitiveness of domestic businessmen and farmers. I mean, respected colleagues, and I'm sure these will be agreed by both businessmen and farmers who vote for SNS and for the SPS and other parties, that it's not a solution to give our money out of the budget to foreign firms, they're welcome, let them invest their money, and our money from the budget to go to the domestic economy and the farmer. That is why I am deeply convinced that this is the only correct economic policy that must eventually overcome this disastrous policy of support for foreign companies. That is why I must be against this amendment by my colleague Vladimir Orlic, because he clearly says that you do not want to give up this wrong economic policy, and in fact you have just continued what the DOS did, what Mladjan Dinkic did and there is no fundamental difference in economic terms between you and the previous regime. You and the previous regime have exactly the same economic policy, and the Dweri policy in that sense is completely the opposite of everything you do. So our economic policy is very simple. We'd do anything the opposite of what you do in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29426	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. Mr. Orlic, you have a basis for replication, but first I must give the word to the minister. So, the word has been made by Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29427	About the amendment, I haven't had a chance since this morning. I encourage all MPs, I used to be a national MP, to get involved in the debate about the very quality amendments that all my colleagues have submitted. All that is related to this text of the law certainly touches some other topics that are important to our society, and therefore, of course, the position of foreign investors, getting the opportunity to enter our country more easily. That's why we had to refuse some of these amendments, because through a set of different laws we regulate their position in our country. But what is important is to say that there is some fundamental difference that this government makes, above all, the position of foreign and domestic investors in our country is legally even. Every domestic investor has the right to receive, in accordance with the law passed by this National Assembly, I thank the National Assembly, the law passed by this National Assembly allows every domestic investor who wants to invest, to open jobs, to receive subsidies and, of course, thanks to a large number of foreign investors, we today have in the last three years 170 thousand new jobs. Without these new jobs, we couldn't reduce significant unemployment and, after all, make a profit. People forget. Investments, is that the government grants subsidies to an open new job, but over a few years on taxes, on contributions it is important not only to return that money and not only to have satisfied people who got jobs, who have families that work, but also to significantly improve the growth of the country's gross social product, you have strengthened industrialization and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29428	Thank you, Mr. Minister, two minutes are up. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29429	Thank you very much. About the issues raised and the criticism raised, and in fact, exactly what the minister has just said. So, on equal terms, ladies and gentlemen, under equal conditions, domestic and foreign investors have the opportunity to count on the support of the state here. I always like to set an example, sometimes it turns out, unfortunately, in some people, it turns out that we're painting for nothing, but it doesn't matter. This is good-looking because of those people who listen. So, only recently do domestic investors like the Sanateks manufacturer from Sjenica, like the producer Neli from Loznica, like the manufacturer "Emilio Steker" from Prijepolje, different producer companies, both from Srljjig, from Krupanj, from Ruma, from Sremska Mitrovica, the plant of the Belgrade firm in Krupanj, Bekament, and before that, Zlatiborac, earlier "Gjipsi vej", etc. It's a really long list. Of course, someone to be able to deal with this problem must be interested in her at least elementically. So he's not just talking to talk, he's trying to find some data, he's reading something. I can't believe someone knows the problem they want to deal with until they're able to answer, and we've asked that question here many times. The amount of the average subsidy and the period for which this average subsidy is returned, i.e. the investment. We haven't heard the answer, which tells me it's a story about topics that someone simply doesn't know, or wants to know. But on the subject of the same economic policy as the DOS policy used to be. a. There is only a really difficult exchange of views. Hardly, ladies and gentlemen, with someone alone as a political opportunity, the economic policy of DOS, the one financed by Dragan Gilas, can't be anything else, so these things can't be understood, because they can't look at themselves from the side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29430	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29431	Mr. Milicevic, perhaps someone was interested in this previous debate, is interesting to hear when one doctor suggests science proposes an amendment, and the other suits him, but there is a problem. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in Article 106 says – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under review and the amendment currently under discussion. All the things we've heard before and the jobs and the GPS, and the investors and everything else we've talked about, it has absolutely nothing to do with the law, nor with the amendment, it simply doesn't. Now, let's touch some expertise. They say SNS gentlemen have read the law very well. I was surprised by that, because my first guess when I read the SNS amendments was that there was some technical problem and they handed over the amendments they thought of the second law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29432	Just talk to me, which is where the injury was done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29433	Absolutely, I explain to you Mr. Milicevic what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that the injured Rules of Procedure are best explained by the government. I'll read the government's explanation for why the amendment of Mr. Dr. Orlic's sciences is being rejected. He says so - The government does not accept this amendment for the reason the amendment proposes a matter that is not subject to the regulation of this law. Nothing to do with the law has to do with any amendments you've proposed. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't matter. So show that expertise at work. Hundreds of such amendments. We should be concerned if the entire parliamentary group proposes amendments, and none of them have anything to do with the matter the law regulates.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29434	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Mr. Sarovic, you are a longtime MP and you know very well that we are discussing alternatives to how to get better quality legal proposals. In this debate and position, both the position and the opposition have the full right to submit amendments. I realized that during a recent discussion, colleagues argued why their amendment would contribute to this legislative proposal. For that reason, I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because I allowed my colleagues to talk about their amendments. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29435	Article 103, Section 8, and I'm going to be very brief for a few seconds. Since we're already talking about expertise, I wanted to help, it might be useful this time. So, the proposal to you, Mr. Chairman, to introduce the MP to the replica as a concept, to explain to him what it might mean and to explain to him that if you do not understand the replica as a concept, that expertise we are talking about can be achieved by appropriate reading, for example, the Rules of Procedure. As he reads it, my proposal to you is to shorten the time for the debate of the parliamentary group in two minutes, and it is likely that these two minutes will come further as an additional space for reading and reaching your expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29436	Mr. Orlic, thank you. Mr. Sarovic, also as an MP, has the legitimate right to point to me as chairman of the Rules of Procedure's breach. If he thinks the injury was done, I didn't want to interrupt him, of course, as I don't do when it comes to any MP and position or opposition. I said my position, considering why I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure or not will the National Assembly decide in voting day. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29437	Mr Milicevic, member of 104, says – if the MP in his presentation at the session is offended by a statement about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group and so on, he has the right to reply. You were obliged, first of all, to stop Mr. Orlic. You know, it's offensive for any of the 250 MPs to say they need a chairman or anyone else to explain the concept of a replica to him. You know, it can only be said by one who understands absolutely nothing about parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy means that citizens in free elections define their representatives. All of these 250 representatives, i.e. the MPs, have the same rights and are meant to be expert in discussing any subject and to imply that they know the Rules of Procedure. Some concrete things can be pointed out, as I have pointed out by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which claims that Mr. Orlic does not know what the law does, the government of the Republic of Serbia argues. The government of the Republic of Serbia argues that the amendment proposes non-legislative matter. So, if Mr. Orlic has a problem with this, let him address the minister rather than me, but he is not allowed to be accused of not knowing the Rules of Procedure in any way. I've been an MP a lot longer than Mr. Orlic, and if it isn't, it may be another ten terms, but if he keeps this up, he'll hardly learn anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29438	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I had no intention of interrupting either you or Mr. Orlic, and I think in my earlier explanation and answer why I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure I just gave an answer to the question you personally asked me. I really ask that you address me specifically in the future when you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as I believe the last time I did not harm the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? No, I don't. ) According to the amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29439	Dear Chairman, I've been looking for a replica, but counting on how hard I'm going to get it, it's not disputed to use the time of power, that is. The head of the parliamentary group. So I see no reason for colleagues from the government of people to hear a different opinion in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's one perfectly normal thing. You saw the minister react completely normal. He heard a different view of the economy and in his answer he tried to explain why he thought the policy of subsidising foreign companies was correct. In my opinion, his answer was quite thin, for the reason that there are really not enough arguments why foreign companies would be sponsored, not domestic economy, but that's the point of a parliamentary debate. I just need to draw the public's attention to a few important and essential things that speak for the economic policy of the Dvora. During the SNS government and before, several billion euros were given to foreign firms coming to Serbia. What are the lowest salaries in these foreign companies in all of Serbia? What are the working conditions? Can any inspection, environmental or labour inspection come in? What is the situation with basic union rights in these foreign companies? And, of course, what's the key question for me, why I think that the completely opposite economic policy is correct, is that by bringing foreign competition, you're killing the competition of a domestic producer, and the point of the economy is to replace imports by domestic production. So how do you sponsor more domestic economy and agriculture? Because the point is that profit stays in this country, not abroad. And there's my conclusion with this subject. You think they're equal domestic and foreign investors. I say they are not even, but foreign investors are favored in Serbia. Even if they were even, I don't agree with that. I think a domestic businessman and farmer should be favored in this country, as a domestic businessman and farmer are favored in France, Germany, the Netherlands, and in any other country. Do you think they don't protect their businessmen and farmers there before a foreign investor? Of course they do. So when you face arguments, don't be angry, it's simply a different opinion of basic democratic and parliamentary law. Citizens listen carefully to this debate. The minister tried to offer arguments, but they were thin. The point of the story is, every serious country in the world supports its economy and agriculture first, and not foreign investors and no foreign country in the world has developed foreign investors, they come here to take cheap labour, to take our money and bring profits abroad. Foreign investors, dear fellow MPs, and respected citizens do not come to Serbia to develop us. You don't have that illusion, do you? They come here only to rob us, to take as much money as they can and to make as much profit abroad as possible. I say again, I have nothing against foreign investors, if they bring their money, but if we give our money to a foreign company, instead of a domestic businessman and a farmer, I'm against it. Now you have to let the citizens, and here's a colleague, Mr. Minister, explain to the citizens why they give our money to a foreign form instead of a company? That's the whole question. That's the whole difference between our economic model and yours. We consider all our money, our tax incentives, our subsidies, our reliefs, everything that can be done by domestic economies, domestic agriculture, to restore agricultural and industrial combinations, to restore the domestic agricultural machinery industry, to restore cooperatives, to invest in every family firm, to cut the income tax. That's what the businessmen in Serbia expect from you. You haven't done that most important thing in six years, to reduce the tax burden on a domestic businessman, to give him air so he can breathe and work, so he'll open up a new job, so he'll invest in new technology, so he'll expand his capacities. You ignored all that and threw all the cards at a foreign investor. It's a mistake. It's an economic mistake that costs us dearly. That's all I'm telling you. There's no reason to be angry. This is just a different opinion. If you are so confident that it is good, you will continue that path, but I tell you – it is not good. It takes all our money to give to a domestic businessman and a farmer and they expect it from you. They fill that budget and they expect their own state to help them, not to be trampled by their own state by taxes, taxes, VATs, all kinds of burdens, pressures, inspections, attacks, incursions and all that the state does towards the domestic economy and the farmer. And a stranger, a foreigner protected as a white bear, came here to pick up our money, when they finished the subsidy he went to another place, and they remained empty halls. So, the point of the story is to invest in domestics, not foreigns, which brings us profit and gets out of here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29440	Comrade Kostic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29441	Chairman, member 109 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure and I believe that you should give notices to the MPs who, during the presentation of Mr. Bosko Obradovic, threw and told him the ugliest expressions that he was lying, that he was lying, all the time. After your victory in the election, we believe we have the right to continue our fight and not be interrupted as we speak. Why can't we tell you now? Simply, this way of discussion is not appropriate to parliament, and you should stick to that people’s proverb: “It is not exalted in good, it does not humble itself in bad. ” You've won a lot at percentages. You will soon have tasks on Kosovo, so the people will finally see if this policy is sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29442	My colleague Kostic, I did not notice that anyone was throwing away, because first of all, I was focused and focused on Mr Obradovic's presentation in which I realized that he had repeatedly mentioned Mr. Minister, so Mr. Minister certainly has a basis for replication and for an additional two minutes. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29443	Unfortunately, this is about deep misunderstanding, how modern business works. I'll give it through very specific examples. For example, “The Iron. ” She has 5,000 workers and no one has bothered any domestic businessman for years to come and invest, to take "The Iron", to start that production and to give him all possible subsidies, because simply, no one wanted to, simply didn't hear from any of them. Although it has been sold for years for the euro, for one euro, it didn't even need to pay him money for it, to take on the obligation and to take care of 5,000 workers, but unfortunately it wasn't and then a foreign investor showed up, who didn't buy "The Iron," today those scenarios that many "experts" offered us to grow mushrooms would be realized. Today, we have a "Zelezaru" where the salary is increased, one of the investor's first measures was to increase workers' salary. Another example of "MeiTa" in Obrenovac, where the average salary is 55,000 dinars, where the new "MeiTe" plant is done and there is no "MeiTe", I don't know who would hire those people from Obrenovac, because I guess someone should go to those people and explain to them that it's all a mirage and that it's much better to stop the production of turbo chargers for BMW and Mercedes, because some plant would probably have produced that much plant, as it has produced so far, so turbo chargers for BMW and Mercedes could be made in Bulgaria and Macedonia, and there would be absolutely nothing. A very important thing, there's something called the market. For the goods you produce in your country, you must sell somewhere. If you have a large internal market, such as Germany, Poland, France, you can operate differently. When you're a small country, you depend on where you place goods abroad and on what competitive conditions. We have the Investment Act, and that's what it's called, and the Law fully equates a domestic and foreign producer, but these are serious arguments, not stories that serve to entertain the people. The domestic investor has the same subsidy rights, eases them, enables them to pay utility in wars, facilitates tax breaks, allows them to pay money. So the most serious way is even and allowed all those who want to invest in this country to have equal chances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29444	Thank you. A fellow Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure? The injury of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29445	Mr. Chairman. It may be unusual for me to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, but I am glad that you are flexible today and that you allow the Minister to speak for more than two minutes and have our support for this matter, but on the condition that you apply Article 116 and that every MP when he talks about injury to the Rules of Procedure or when he has a replica, he can speak until he circles the continent and says what he wants to say. I ask you to behave in the future in accordance with Article 116, but not to the harm of the MPs, but to the minister's favor, but to be as this member predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29446	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. I don't know if you've noticed, in the previous presentation, and I've allowed my colleague Sarovic to step over for more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29447	Well, I commended you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29448	I don't think that hurt the Rules of Procedure. I just let the minister and the MPs finish the thought. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Comrade Sarovic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29449	Mr. Milicevic, I appreciate that you are one of the people who perhaps understands parliamentary democracy better and I really think that you may be the most correct chair of the sessions, but the same archaic cannot be applied to MPs and ministers. The MPs are representatives of the citizens who are here in their home and in their home, and the ministers are guests, so to speak. And therefore, it cannot be the minister who will encourage the MPs to engage in the discussion, but only the MPs can encourage the minister. That's the point. The second thing – Article 158, paragraph 7, says: “The legislator, or authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes. ” Mr. Stefanovic spoke twice in two and a half minutes. I would ask you, Mr. Milicevic, to silence this gentleman beside you, first of all, which bothers me, and secondly, I believe that you know the Rules of Procedure well enough that there is no need for him to tell you what you will answer, especially this way. This is a special provision that limits the right of the minister. Ministers are more than privileged to speak without limit in the principle debate. As MPs, we have very limited time. Ministers can say as much as they want, both five and 10 and 20 and 100 times as much as we do. A little equality is foreseen when the amendments are – two minutes MP, up to two minutes minister. That's more than enough, I repeat, especially what the government itself says the proposed amendment has nothing to do with the matter regulated by the law. Don't give them so much privilege.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29450	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. We have repeatedly, during the previous session... Nemanja Sarovic: Are you... No, don't, it's not my manners, Mr. Sarovic, and you know it very well. So, we have spoken on this subject several times during the previous sessions and I think that the subsequent application of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well, refers to all the participants in the debate. As for the time that has passed these two minutes, as permitted, you should bear in mind that all of this is in one way removed from that cumulative time of 180 minutes, as long as there is a minister. So I don't think I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. It is up to you to answer if you would like the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. According to the amendment, MP Marko Parezenovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29451	Thank you, Chairman. I was hoping my Chachani colleague would use something to read, to educate a little, but we can see that's not the case. We've heard a lot of lies about the state not helping domestic investors. I will rely on that thesis and based on what counterpart Orlic has already said, I can confirm it, because it is precisely some of these domestic investors from Cačka. So, the Chipsy Way from Cačka, which received a significant subsidy from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and not just them. Local self-government encourages domestic investors, domestic businessmen, through a large number of subsidies. At the end of last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia identified 60m dinars from the budget reserve town of Cacca, most of which went to an existing industrial zone with only domestic investors. So these are all examples of how the state of Serbia is helping domestic businessmen. And then some MP from Cačka, who didn't notice all this, came to you, didn't see it all, and said that the state of Serbia is not helping domestic businessmen. That's exactly why this MP certainly can't knock on the door of any serious domestic businessman, because everyone knows he's a dilettante. And why is he a dilettante? Here's why. My Chacan counterpart was in a coalition with the party "Enough" Sasa Radulovic in the previous elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29452	There's no reason directly, you're talking about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29453	As I recall, it is a man who, while serving as minister, has publicly stated several times, that he will not abolish subsidies to foreign investors and that, while he is a minister, foreign investors will receive subsidies. Now I wonder, do they even know what their policy is? I think they have a big identity crisis and they're not the safest thing about their politics. They advocate one day for foreign investors, to get subsidies, and then afterwards they say they're against it. But I think the citizens in the election recognize it and that it is one of the reasons for such a bad result of the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29454	You have no basis for replication, and as far as I can see, colleague Vesovic pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you've violated Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, when they say that the reminder is given to the People's MP if he uses swearing and offensive expressions. Is it an offensive term for a fellow member of the congregation to say that he is a dilettante? If you think it's not an offensive expression, then I'll say the dilettante was talking about something he can't say. I don't think that's appropriate and appropriate for this assembly. It's high time we stopped favoring the position, which is more numerous, which is clear to me, there's nothing controversial about it, but just to realize that we have the right to our own opinion. If our opinion isn't identical to theirs, it doesn't necessarily mean we're hypocrites. He'll think of another vice president who didn't give me a replica when I was personally called a hypocrite, and we're not dilettantes. People, we don't think the same thing as power. What's so controversial about that? Don't, protect us. I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. There's no reason to be offended, because insults never start on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29456	Comrade Vesovic, of course you have the right to your opinion. You are allowed to make your opinion known through an indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you consider to have personally committed. I didn't notice that my colleague Parezovic was insultingly expressing himself. I noticed that at one point, he might have wanted to turn directly. I just asked him not to. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Dragan Vesovic: No. I thank you. My colleague Djukanovic, did you report after the amendment? (Vladimir Djukanovic: Yes. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29457	Thank you, Chairman. You know, I understand that someone has a different opinion. Everyone's trying to reach the voters in some way. I really don't mind, but sometimes you have to think about changing the concept and not sometimes saying something that really doesn't have a basis. This amendment will be warmly supported, because I am a supporter of total liberalisation, whether foreign or domestic, but to allow them to be able to operate as freely as possible. Whoever has a better quality product will be on the market and celebrated. I guess that makes sense, doesn't it? We've been listening here to something that looks like the sixties of the last century, about when we introduced and ideally put only administrative socialism, where we're asked of our firms, we're going to subsidize it, and they're going to plan to produce something, and where they're going to sell, it's nobody's got a clue, and it's something that's disastrous in the economy. Now, by the logic that my colleague was against this amendment, that would be the next way. Let's say "BMW" wants to invest in Serbia, wants to open a factory, we would say – we won't "BMW", we will invest in one of our producers here to be equal to "BMW" roughly, which is impossible, because you don't have that kind of technology, you don't have that kind of work force trained, you don't have that kind of means that you could be competitive "BMW", but it's some logic that constantly opposes foreign investment here. They say, "We will invest." They say they're coming because we're cheap labor. Well, we did. Because for 30 years, no one has done anything alive, destroyed factories. How do you think you've got a trained worker, if you haven't gone through any process of renewing technology in order to learn something? How do you think you have more expensive labour then? I must tell you, the current price is still as adequate as it could have been and what Romania and Bulgaria are going through today. Even Romania has improved quite a bit. Well, you can't have a trained workforce if for 30 years no human factory has worked, and the only way to get to the workforce, which will, of course, be far more appreciated and expensive on the market, so that's to say, what we've introduced is dual education, that people start to get educated and know how they work in production. I guess that makes sense. It is a thorny process, but we'll have to go through it, because we haven't done anything in years. Well, they say -- we're going to, I don't know how much to invest in agriculture now, although the state is giving huge funding to agriculture, and how do you think it's gonna be competitive, huge consortiums in both France and Germany, these are people who have been doing something for decades, have new technologies, you have nothing here? We are the only ones who have succeeded tractor factories to the ground to destroy, and then say – Import foreign tractors. We import, when they're more modern, we don't have any homework anymore, when those factories are ruined. We have to go literally from the beginning. Foreign investment, especially quality foreign companies, helps train the workforce here, helps them learn something here. This worker who passes that factory, or who worked there, and if he leaves it, he'll be able to run something himself, because he's learned something somewhere. He learned some new technologies. It's completely insane to make foreign investment out of here, it's a completely wrong concept. After all, we've seen in the elections that people know how to appreciate it. People don't want you to be dissipating demagogy, making a stranger out of your own country for, apparently, some drinking story, giving a local businessman something, and who, when we just don't have something like that, What has provided domestic businessmen, which has managed to secure the placement of goods on a foreign market, so that the country is investing, but it will be running water to the Danube for a long time until many of our businesses are on their feet, that we can really have a highly competitive and stable economy, some of course European markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29458	According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29459	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the point of the economy comes to you from the Chacan library and when someone talks about the budget, the investment, the production, and their entire narrow family is employed in the public sector, it also tells you about the partocrat. Someone who entered parliament on the DSS list, who initialled the famous SAA in 2007, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The agreement allows excessive and premature liberalisation. So import. The man who entered the list, with those who opened the door to import all over, is talking today about protecting domestic production. In order to make it up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state must have an offensive care for export production. The capital is foreign, but all businesses in Serbia are domestic and operate on domestic terms, domestic occasions, with domestic accounts, etc. Each of those foreign capital investors, to call it, has brought along a piece of the market. This made up for the damage caused by the previous speaker's coalition partner, who tried to speak so inspiredly about protecting the domestic economy, and entered parliament with those who threatened the domestic economy. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, small countries can only get away with offensive exports on such occasions that we are on today, but in terms of investor protection, I must say that the said gentleman tried to enter the city parliament with "Sasa Rasulovic", which he said in early 2014, at the beginning of 2014 – We do not lift subsidies for investors; and in this particular stressed the party and the need for them to exist. Now I don't know if it's a double personality that happens here, on the one hand you're going into parliament with those who threaten domestic production, on the other hand you're trying to get into parliament with those who are specifically foreign investors to reward, and here you're telling a whole other story. Domestic investors, this is the data, let me say, up to a year and a half ago, 132 times they got subsidies, and those with foreign capital, which also here are founded by domestic companies, got 116 times. So, however, the government favored investors with domestic capital, at least by this number. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this government and this government want to do well, but in Serbia, when you want to do good, don't expect these to remove any stone from your path. You can only expect them to put some rock on your way and try to stop you from getting the country out of trouble that they just pushed them into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29460	Thank you. By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29461	Thank you. I use the time of the mandated representatives of the DS parliamentary group in order to support the amendment that my colleague explained, very similar in the spirit that the parties, investors, have a privileged, easier approach, and by law on foreigners, with the hope that the amendment as well as others will not be withdrawn before the voting day, so that I will have the opportunity to vote. With a slight crackdown that if in parliament the ruling majority submits hundreds of amendments to the government they support, and the government rejects all of them, with an explanation that it is not the subject of the law, and MPs professionally by argument, with an obvious deep conviction to defend their amendments, then it is the alphabet of parliamentaryism to support their amendment colleagues if they are otherwise. If all those who have submitted the amendments, which are defended here in a reasoned manner, withdraw the amendments, then they are either victims of pressure to withdraw the amendments or, together with everyone, we use the opportunity to mock the space and culture of procedures in the Assembly. I don't care what those two are. It is important for me to know that MPs are submitting an amendment which can defend and I want to vote for that amendment, if I agree with it and I have hope that it will not be withdrawn before the day of the vote, and that it will be possible for all of us who understand how and why the amendments are submitted, to vote for such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29462	I would like to thank my colleague, Komic. According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29463	Thank you, Your Honor. I simply cannot believe that today in the 21st century from someone who should nominally represent a conservative policy, a policy that implies economic freedom, economic rights on which democracy and civilization rest, human civilization, talk about any isolation, isolation and preference of anyone in terms of economic activity and economic life in one country. For the sake of truth and for the sake of justice, I would like to say that in last year, foreign investors in Serbia invested more than 2,000,000,000 euros in 2017, that this is more, that this amount is more than was invested, therefore, in all countries in the region. We're champions here. What does that show? It shows the political stability of our country, shows that Serbia is the economic leader of this region, and if someone in parliament today, representing some citizens, claims it's bad that we have 40,000 workers who employ German companies here, it's bad that American companies employ 17,000 people, which they have invested over the past 10 years more than 3,000,000 euros, that it's bad that we have a NCR here, which has a headquarters in our country, "Continental". A few days ago, Continental opened a company in Novi Sad with over 500 employees. President Vukic was at that opening. Every day we have a foreign company opening up, we have a new foreign investor who, what is he doing here, what do these investments mean? What's called in the economy is the spilling effect, new technologies, new knowledge, new management. What's the score? So 26% unemployment in 2012, 13% unemployment this year. Now, that's patriotism, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's the greatest kind of patriotism in the 21st century, openness of the country, economic leadership, not any isolation and preference of anyone, especially in economic life. I forgot to mention "Lir." Here, there's a colleague, Žarko Micin. He worked on bringing in the institution, more than 1,500 employees in Novi Sad. This is what the government of the Republic of Serbia will deal with in the next period and, of course, we will insist on as a parliamentary majority, which is a better life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these are new investments, which is the prosperity and modernisation of our country. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29464	You have no basis for replication. (Bosko Obradović: Rules of Procedure. We won't play, I've told you more than once. Mr. Sarovic, here's your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's an amendment to say a few words. We had a chance to hear rhetorically, I would say, a question - what would happen if BMW wanted to invest in Serbia? I guess you'll -- if you want, leave it for some next election, because you've already fired Mercedes for these previous ones, well, here's how many vehicles they've produced over the past few years. Second thing, I must disappoint my colleagues who have said that they will support these amendments earnestly. I think it's clear to everyone that these amendments are going into retreat, as are those at the previous sessions. Their purpose is only to use time, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is legal, but not legitimate. The third thing, while we're at the lead here, I'd say, a pointless debate, here, in those moments, just a moment, in Belgrade, on Roosevelt Street, there's been another gunfight, another murder, two severe injuries. Much better, here, I promise we won't get angry, that both Minister Stefanovic and Police Director Rebic leave this session and contribute where I suppose I can anymore, because you will admit that here, in reality, there wasn't much to really the power of the minister and the law we're talking about. In Belgrade, such killings occur more and more frequently, minors every day. If we're already taking care of the citizens, let's first take care of what's most important, and that's their safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29466	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29467	First of all, it absolutely doesn't seem that these murders happen often. Look, the number of murders decreases every year, significantly decreases. This is where an incident with severe consequences happened, where a person, who apparently was a worker or former employees of the company, entered the company, committed a serious crime, then went home and committed suicide. So, as far as the case is concerned, otherwise it's not the minister's jurisdiction to lead, of course, the investigation procedure, which is the jurisdiction of the prosecutions with the police task force, they do. So this is a difficult case, but in terms of conduct, there are operational units on the ground that will lead to the lighting of this case, entirely, although all the actors are, let me say, the actor who committed this murder has committed suicide, and in that sense there is no more room to treat it. As far as this is concerned, it is important for the minister to be present, which is the key responsibility of the Minister for Parliament's work, to show respect for the MPs who have taken their time and this day of the Assembly session is important because the National Assembly is in full session and should make decisions on the important laws that are in front of us, and, on the other hand, at the same time, the people of the police are doing their job. We've been informed of what they're doing. They're taking everything out of their jurisdiction. So the citizens of Serbia do not suffer in terms of security. What's good is that unlike some of the previous times when it wasn't about lighting, when it happened that both senior police officials and journalists and politicians were killed, and that never lit up, things like that don't happen in our country today. And, on the other hand, you have a situation where the degree of lighting up all the crimes, and today we have shed light on the execution of a serious crime that took place a few months ago, and today we have lit up and filed criminal charges against the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29468	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29469	I'm advocating a violation of a 107 member who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think what happened could be called an incident. Murder and suicide can be...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29470	Just talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29471	Allow me, I'll be brief. It can only be a tragedy, and it's a double tragedy for two families. Another thing, do murders happen that aren't lit? Yeah, they happen, a whole series of murders like that. The People's MPs of the SNS are insolent. Calm down the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29472	Just talk to me. What was the violation of the Rules of Procedure done?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29473	I would also take the opportunity to ask Mr. Stefanovic about a murder that took place in his term.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29474	Mr. Sarovic, you can't hurt the Rules of Procedure to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29475	That's what Nebojsa Stefanovic, the police minister, was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29476	No, he just answered your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29477	I can't be banned from what the minister is allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29478	You're not banned.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29479	Allow me. Who, Mr. Minister, killed Velibor Veljo Dunjic? He was killed in your term, even though it was announced to be discovered and to know who he was and who the murderers were. They haven't been brought to justice yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29480	Mr. Sarovic, please only in the future, when you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please address me and explain to me what the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, because only I can do it. Mr. Secretary answered the question you asked. That's why he had the basis for that extra two minutes just to explain and nothing more. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. The word is made by MP Bosko Obradović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29481	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I am speaking to you right now. You have injured or violated Article 104. - if, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group is offended, stating his name and name or function, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. So, several times I've asked for a replica. I'm the only one here representing the opposition who's been plowing with the authorities. Several representatives of the government spoke precisely about my presentation, misread it, insulted me both directly and indirectly. Here, let's agree on such a cultural arrangement, you don't have to give me every time someone insults me or misreads my exposure, but let's just say, after five such attacks one replica or after ten such attacks one replica, here's, as far as you decide, Mr. Chairman, I'll be pleased, let's say, after 50 of their attacks one replica. But please tell me in public that I know that I can prepare myself when I come to the line and that the public knows whether opposition MPs, who are constantly insulting the authorities, are misreading their exposure, can ever get the right to replication. So it would be very important that we know that, because it is one basic parliamentary matter, and therefore you blatantly violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So I can understand that you're the government, I can understand that there's a great ruling majority here, that there's a lot more time than we have from the opposition, and that's all right, but it's a little bit of time that we have in our Rules of Procedure to answer when someone insults us or when someone misreads our exposure, don't deny us. That's just it, I don't want to give qualifications what it is. I think you feel it, too, and I'm asking you to measure it. Here, not me, not the Rules of Procedure that you are breaking, but you to determine the measure, because the Rules of Procedure gave you the opportunity to interpret the Rules of Procedure and to make a fine determination of the extent of the insult followed by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29482	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic, you are not the only MP for the opposition who has participated in the debate so far. That's the first thing. The other thing is, I didn't notice that anyone was insulting to you. If I'd noticed, we'd certainly have a basis for replication. When you will receive the replica, the moment it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and with the member you specified. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is written by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29483	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, because of multiple injuries from several members of the presidency, Articles 103, 2 and 3 - MPs who point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure can do so directly after the injury has been done. I also listened to my colleague Sarovic, and I heard no insult from a colleague who spoke before me. So if he wanted to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he should have done it directly after the injury was done. Apparently from the speech he gave, I didn't conclude it. Maybe he had some phone call for a TV duel, so he went there, and he forgot to come back, or he left and didn't come back, missed the chance to do the commercials at the right time. In the future, given that this is repeated by several MPs, you must make sure that it is done directly after the injury is done, not when someone remembers, when someone remembers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29484	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29485	Thank you. The proposal is faster to obtain personal documents to the foreign investor and faster economic development of the Republic of Serbia, and to develop infrastructure. Infrastructure is the key to development for our country, connecting with other countries and increasing the competitiveness of our economy. This means that the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia must continue to develop infrastructure, because with good infrastructure we will have better connections with neighbours, increasing the volume of goods in transit, and good infrastructure guarantees the inflow of new investments and, of course, the creation of new jobs. It is therefore important and necessary for future investors to be able to obtain the necessary personal documents more quickly and in order to develop the infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia economically. The previous government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as this Government of the Republic of Serbia, essentially understood the importance of infrastructure and set it as one of the priorities. Serbia has a central strategic position in the region and geographically, and since the arrival of SNS to power, we have also become a political leader in the region, which is our main competitive advantage. Serbia is being built and this is not just stories as they were when the DS ruled and we listened to all kinds of lies and unfulfilled visions and ideas. This is today Serbia where clear plans exist, and the value of projects in the area of current and planned investments exceeds 12 billion euros and therefore the objective of this amendment is to strengthen the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia's infrastructure. The fact that some need to bring in the stone Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order for Serbian citizens to see that it has a head is a special story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29486	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29487	Thank you. I use the time of the mandated representatives of the DS parliamentary group in order to thank my colleagues for the argument that he defended the amendment and the obvious undeniable, passionate desire, him as an applicant and others, to make it really easier for foreign investors. The credibility of the arguments will be much greater and I will believe you in everything you're talking about on the way to DS if you don't withdraw that amendment. That's what I'd like to ask you. You know, fellow MPs, I read carefully what is written in the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly what is our job. It's our job to listen to each other. It is our job to make sure in this mutual listening and dialogue that the laws that come out of this assembly vote make something better for the citizens of Serbia. If a colleague submits an amendment that I support and in his argument has a legitimate need to look back at DS, then it is my legitimate intention to tell him, don't withdraw the amendment before voting day, so I'll believe what you've been telling you about the amendment, I might even believe you in what you're saying about DS on the way. If you withdraw the amendment, you didn't say anything wrong about DS. You have said everything about your understanding of work in the National Assembly, which is also your legitimate right, as well as mine to leave beyond any doubt that we will defend amendments with a good argument and then we will not give the MPs the opportunity to vote for these amendments. That's all I'm warning about in my desire to really make this law the best possible, and since the government has clearly rejected your amendment, I'll rather give support to every MP who in this way has a misunderstanding with the government, supported or not, that misunderstanding is banal, but very often it can be deep and impregnable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29488	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29489	Thank you, Chairman. I'm also using the time of my authorised representative. In principle, I began my discussion by saying that this congregation is constantly on the verge of regularity, not regularity. On that occasion, I said that even these opportunities that exist in this Rules of Procedure are constantly stretching to the limit, which is the entire course of this session and how it was confirmed. And then I also said that it's not good that this many points of the agenda are united at one point, that it's simply not natural, because no matter how many good solutions there are, I think right now you're showing your amendments that these solutions are not so good. If there are hundreds of amendments to these same solutions that you claim to be phenomenal, then I don't know how good they really are. I also have to admit, it fascinates me, I'm not good enough to know mathematics and the probabilities to be able to talk about it, but I'd be very interested in how it's possible that all these hundreds and hundreds of amendments by the ruling majority are submitted to the first laws and to the first members here today on the agenda. I wonder why you have so many objections on those laws without having any objections to any laws that are either 10th or 11th or 12th or 15th on the agenda. As I said, there are very, very controversial solutions and decisions. A few days ago, when I spoke of some of these controversial solutions, the minister replied to me, say when I mentioned the comments of the protector, that it was not a holy letter. In this debate, however, we also have some points, such as the choice under the problem rule and the opposite of the public prosecutor's law to which the Constitutional Court also had objections. So I'm wondering if maybe it's a holy letter or not, maybe the Constitution isn't even a holy letter anymore, and what is it in this country that has to be respected in the first place? Are there such items to be respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29490	Thank you. The word has Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29491	Maybe you didn't understand me well then. So, opinions, no opinion is a holy letter anywhere in the world, nor in Serbia. The court is making a decision, making a verdict, and it has to be respected. The opinion of a judge is not binding on anyone, at least on the National Assembly. Finally, the National Assembly decides whether something that is an amendment or an amendment to a particular bill becomes an integral part of the law, whatever the government thinks, because the government's opinion is not a sacred letter either. The government's opinion is the government's opinion on the amendment. The government does not consider the amendment to be good, the National Assembly can adopt it in the voting day and it becomes an integral part of every law. Likewise, the views of protectors of all sorts, no matter who has appointed them and what they are called, are their opinions. They are professional bodies, at least they should be, professional bodies that give opinions under certain laws and do not mean that they are always right, but it does not oblige the National Assembly. The National Assembly is bound only by the decision of most MPs, and that is the essence. As for this, we have before us the text of a law that, I believe, the texts of different laws, which I believe are good. We adopted some amendments in the meantime because it improved the text of the law, some representative of the opposition, which we feel is also good. We weren't looking at who proposed them but what it is that affects the law to be better quality, and that's how we're gonna keep doing it. As far as various opinions are concerned, let them all give opinions, but those who decide in the end are MPs, you decide whether an opinion will be accepted. As far as the court is concerned, the court ruling is yes, but the opinion of a judge in a particular case means nothing. It's as beautiful as reading, as scientific material is not binding. The verdict is binding, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29492	Thank you, Minister. Alexander Chabrai by amendment, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29493	Let me just look back on what the minister said. Namely, the election of public prosecutors is carried out under a problematic regulation which is contrary to the public prosecutor's law and by the procedure carried out by members of the Justice Academy, which you have just set up, and the Commissioner for Information Protection has also challenged the Constitutional Court, which has adopted a temporary measure of banning the conduct of the State's Council of Prosecutors in this contest. Is this binding or not binding, that interest me?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29494	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, representatives of the MUP, it is obvious that some MPs who do not understand what parliament is, that it is actually a pay phone, that it has been since ancient Greece. They'd like to ban some MPs from speaking. What's most important and most pathetic is knowingly incorrect facts and data. For example, the Constitutional Court has challenged the old rules on the election of prosecutors, the National Assembly has been informed, and the election procedure of prosecutors has been stopped. Meanwhile, the rulebook has been changed. Now, the Society of Judges and the Society of Prosecutors are NGOs that can participate in a public debate, but they won't determine to the state authorities how they're going to pass the rules, or how the National Assembly is going to pass the laws. That's why there's an election. Now, here it is, in this law, one of the most ordinary administrative procedures -- how the state should treat a citizen of another state, who are appropriate documents, how it can enter a country, how it can stay in it, how it should come out and how it should be handled if any of these conditions do not meet. My position, as well as some of my colleagues, is that citizens of foreign states who want to invest in the economy of the Republic of Serbia should be easier to regulate these obligations, regulate and exercise their rights in this administrative process than those who come, see, just for transit or in a similar way. I don't see what's illegal about it. I had here, while listening to the discussion, tiring about how the Republic of Serbia should support domestic investors, as if it did not support them. He's supporting them. Now, we have a few problems with our citizens, our domiciles, which, I say, are domestic investors. First and most importantly, there are few. The largest number of domestic domestic domestic investors was dispersed by a Thai organisation led by Miskovic during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the government of the Democratic Party. As a consequence, we had, for example, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia to the friends of these tycoons, who represented themselves as domestic investors, otherwise the most common thieves, were fed up by the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia for 140 billion dinars. There were no bank guarantees, there were no adequate guarantees that money would be returned to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens for new investments in adequate security such as real estate or property value or property value was not correctly assessed, it was far below the market, and was estimated to be much higher, etc. This colleague here who has most defended such domestic investors has to explain who he represents. Or, for example, one of the biggest domestic investors was Mr. Miskovic. He sold, for example, a "Maxie" trade chain for about two billion euros, which was presented as a top foreign investment. Does anyone know where those two billion euros ended? Someone threw - Cyprus. No, it's not. One country is neighbouring, and one country is an ex-SFRJ member. Are these investors offered to Serbia through Dvora, Obradovic and others? I'm sorry they're not here. Maybe we could learn something. They may have been led astray, but I doubt it. So that's how these domestic investors' interests are, these dams that want to close the Serbian market. In the National Assembly, we passed laws that encourage all who invest in Serbia. And I don't remember that in one law it was written and separated -- this is going to be given to a foreign investor, this is going to get domestic, but it has provided certain tax reliefs for all those who are opening new jobs in Serbia and I don't see what the problem is. The illusion is that Serbian society and the Serbian economy are enough to make its industry for its own purposes only. That's not what an economically written man can say. That's impossible. There's no development here, it's just economic self-insulation, we introduce ourselves to sanctions. Is that what Bosko Obradovic wants? Or does he want us back in times of communism, when the state determined who would do what in the real sector, not in public, not in the state, but in the real sector? We built factories that no one needed, we declared municipalities undeveloped so that we could provide the local leadership with certain subsidies, finance, anyone who said that, my people, lives in the past. There's no economic logic here. The fact is, our economy, where domestic investors, are technologically lagging behind in competition. Traditional markets were the markets of the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China. Now somebody tell me if our economy is compatible with the economies of the Russian Federation, or the People's Republic of China. Well, it's not. We're technical and technologically lagging behind. Don't underestimate those markets. That's all economic ignorance can say again. Their standards to export goods to them are stricter than EU standards. So someone wants to get on the illusions of power, of feelings. I'm just asking how will he exercise power? Are we going to ask other questions, such as traffic infrastructure that's been destroyed for 30 years? Who can you keep a domestic investor in Serbia? How many of our citizens escaped for temporary work abroad, because they didn't have a way to their home, and you want to keep someone who needs to make money here. Well, he can't. He can't. So there must be one serious plan. One way is for Serbian society, we can talk about it, and I have submitted a few more amendments, to open up, to show up as an attractive place for those who are domestic investors and for those who are foreign, because in the first place you have a responsibility to the citizens, and the job of the state is to ensure the conditions of a decent life and a civilized moment for your citizens, not for the ideologies that are missed, and what are relics of the past. So here I am, in a few sentences, just saying what these are, let's say, economical, dilettant issues, how only foreign investors are favored. That's not true. Do we have a technological problem? We do. Do we have anything to learn from others? A lot of things. If we want to develop society, if we want to live in self-insulation, which someone offers, let him live alone. But then don't wear and drive foreign cars, wear watches that cost five, six, 10,000 euros and shoes that cost us money and Italian production. Let him go to our tailors, make him shoes, put on shoes, make him whatever he wants. Opanak, he's recognizable to a Serb, and that's part of our history and history. I'm not ashamed to wear it, I'm not ashamed to wear it wherever someone's looking for it, but it's a shame to go to the ox, as they predict it, to work and to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29496	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29497	Article 109 and Article 107. Article 109 speaks of the rights, or powers of the chairman when the speaker speaks of something that is not the subject of the agenda, when he is abusively referring to other MPs, and all of this is clearly defined in this article. A short time ago, your colleague used it when Natasa Jovanovic spoke, but it was better said, he abused this member, by unwarranted remarks by Natasha Jovanovic, advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he still discusses with us some old accounts, Serbian radicals, unclean conscience, what to do. But the bottom line is the next one. Since the beginning of the debate on these amendments, we have contributed, when I say to me, then I think of everything, all of them equally, and "equal" contributes to those in power, to disrupting the reputation of the National Assembly. First of all, the earlier speech was not in line with the agenda theme, especially with the amendment. What is quite clear is that 350 amendments tabled by the ruling coalition on the draft law that their government has given clearly speak for it. This is either about the government's incompetence or about spite or factionism within the ruling coalition. Because when representatives of the government continue to claim that they do not accept these amendments, because they are not based not only on the law, but on common sense and logic, they continue, persistently from spite or some of me incomprehensible reason to defend that amendment. How good are these proposed laws on foreigners, on asylum seekers, the best tells the European Community's decision to set up a camp outside the borders of the communities of European countries, where asylum seekers and those who are going will be housed and those who are going, are going towards Western Europe. I want the Assembly to declare this application.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29498	Thank you. I listened very closely to my colleague Arsic. He talked all the time about economics, about investment, so I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. You said yourself that you wanted the National Assembly to come out in the voting day, that's how it's gonna be. Comrade Bosko Obradović, on what basis are you answering? (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You can do it by amendment, no one mentioned you. (Bosko Obradovic: Yes, Arsic. No one mentioned you by your name or by your last name without saying that he offended you. You can get the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29499	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29501	So, Mr. Chairman, I failed. So, the whole public, everyone who watched a direct transmission, saw that it was... The former member, who you have already violated several times, paragraph 104. So, Mr. Chairman, anyone who watched a direct transmission saw that a colleague, Veroljub Arsic, in the course of his presentation, dedicated the whole exhibition to the replica and answer to my presentation and criticism of the government's economic system, under one. Two, he mentioned me by name and last name, mentioned the Devere MP group, and you didn't hear it. You know what, Mr. Chairman, so first of all, it was your predecessor's excuse that I couldn't get a replica because no one mentioned me by my name and last name or mentioned the Devere MP group. Now I've been mentioned by the MP from the government by name and last name, and also by the MP group Dveri, and I'm head of Parliament's Dveri Group, and I still can't get a line. Now, I ask you to interpret the Rules of Procedure and answer a very simple question when any MP of the opposition can even get a replica? Maybe when you're in the mood or when you're not in the mood or when you're less in violation of your Rules of Procedure or when you're more in violation of the Rules of Procedure? It's simple. Is there any order in this assembly? Or do you think that in this way you can trample the dignity of each of us people's messengers, because you are most and simply, you can? So we can't get a replica, tell Mr. Marinkovic, it's not that bad. Say, you'll never get a line, Mr. Radovic. Say, you opposition don't have the right to a replica. Say, we the ruling majority lift the opposition's voice in the assembly, but be fair enough to say it openly. So don't lie, because you heard him mention me personally and Parliament Club Davery. You want to watch a stenogram?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29502	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. Of course, whenever the conditions are to give you a replica... (Bosko Obradovic: Would you like to watch a stenogram? I'll look for a stenogram, of course. (Bosko Obradovic: Will you correct the mistake? Of course. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and let me perhaps sometimes not hear anything, and that I want to discriminate against anyone in Parliament, of course I never intended to, and I'll never do it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Bosko Obradovic: I want you to correct that mistake when you look at the stenogram. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29503	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, for the second time, Article 103 and Article 104. You have to follow the discussion. Article 104 speaks of the right to replication. If I want to exercise my right to a replica, I have to be in the O.R. The gentleman who spoke before me was not in the O.R. at that time, nor at Mr. Arsic's exposure, nor at the end of the exhibition. Secondly, Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure also shows the moment it was done, so after Mr Arsic's exposure. It all came with a delay, after the speech of another MP. That's why I'm paying attention to Section 103 of Section 8, that you're taking two minutes away from me by trying to pull out a replica and advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not directly committed injury and a right to replication, but later, because he went somewhere and forgot to come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29504	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29505	I'm also using the time of my authorised representative. So, as far as all these stories are concerned, I have to say, when it comes to me, because there's always something to do with any tycoons, former regimes, etc., I don't have anything to do with any former regime, not that I don't have anything to do with any tycoons, but I've never been a member of any party, I represent only citizens here, or at least I try to do it right. As far as the criticism of the former regime, which here seems to be the only topic in the Assembly still, even though this regime is long ago, I have to remember that no matter how bad the regime was, let's say, because you keep referring to what this former regime was doing, here, let's say, this submission of hundreds of amendments didn't work after all. So there's something where you're more ingenious, and you probably think you're better than that previous government, because they didn't even think of it. I would look back, too, when it comes to how many oppositions may or may not speak, one of your colleagues here said a few days ago that I don't know what percentage of votes in the Belgrade elections, either, I didn't participate at all in any way, I didn't even support either side of the election, that they should all be banned from speaking. I'm just wondering how far that can go. That clearly says your point of view. So, all the people who sit here are getting some votes, you'll admit, I don't know, you have to explain to us how we got here and whether we have the right or not to speak, I'm very interested in how far it can go, whether it's gonna be denied, let's say, and some right to enter a building or to exist or not, as long as it can go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29506	The word is made by MP Dragana Barisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29507	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106 is injured, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. As far as I know, we're discussing amendments, a colleague called to discuss the amendment, but she didn't say a word about it. What surprises me is that some colleagues on the other side of this hall are dealing with certain prophecies today. I know that one colleague who has moved from one movement to some other MPs is looking at the ball, but now we have more of those who are predicting today whether or not we are going to withdraw the amendments. Let them discuss the amendments that have been tabled, but let them spend as much time as they have received support in the elections, and don't worry about whether we're going to withdraw our amendments or we're going to influence the law to be as good as possible, so let them take better care of something else, and let the prophesies leave for some other rooms, and not this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29508	I don't think there was an injury based on the 106 you advertised. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29509	I'm just talking about the amendments and the reasons for putting up with all these amendments all the time. I just have to let my colleagues know, since they keep mentioning it, that I've never seen a crystal ball or any other ball in my life, and that they don't have to believe everything that the tabloids write, because it's all about mistakes and fiction, I've said it more than once. However, I want to assure them that I don't need any prophesying powers at all to guess which is why they just, as I said, have submitted amendments to the first members of the first law without having disputed at all, let's say, some members of the 10th or 12th law on the agenda. So there is no need to be a prophet or a psychic to know why they do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29510	Thank you, colleague Chabrai. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29511	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, dear ministers with associates, I'm glad you're back here with us. It speaks of you and your commitment, along with your associates. I must point out that there are twice as many of you in this room today as the former DOS representatives, exactly twice as many as they do, which speaks of your dedicated work. Besides, that's what you proved in this high house as a national MP in the image of the President of the Assembly. It is not my opinion, but the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the greatest part of the MPs in this high house. The objective of the amendment is for this law to be strengthened by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the development of a system of education and education. Dear People's MPs, this is particularly relevant today, that future investors in the Republic of Serbia get the necessary personal documents faster because the Republic of Serbia has improved the economic environment and increased the credit rating for long-term borrowing from BB minus to BB, with stable prospects for its increase. The SNS authorities' period of low and stable inflation has resulted in strengthening the credibility of the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia has proven its operational independence over the past few years, all due to SNS, its president, Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The accelerated economic development encourages and develops a system of education and education, which means more money to raise and educate our children, higher salaries to professors and teachers, improving the teaching process, dual education, as the greatest modern educational range of vocational schools. That's why I'm pushing for this amendment to be accepted by the Government. In the end, we've heard here today words that shouldn't be used, at least when it comes to fascism, and we've called each other maltenes in an ugly word. I must point out that no opposition party to this assembly of parliament has entered the Belgrade Parliament for the City Assembly. I'm really worried about it, as a state-of-the-art man. I think it's best for them, some of them have already resigned, that everyone resigns and that they stand a place that's smarter, more valuable, more responsible, more committed, because that's the only way our country will go stronger when we have a strong opposition, and then we'll do even better in position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29512	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29513	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Associates, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on the position of Article 1 where it is defined that the faster issue of documents to foreign investors is certainly in the function of economic development. So, those 2.6 billion euros of foreign direct investment last year was supposed to be realised, in cooperation, of course, with our country and who brought this money and these investments, certainly on the ground, managers of these companies, their managers, their workers had real needs and problems on the ground, in realisation itself. It's people, it didn't fall from the sky, and it's the result of some agreements and negotiations. I believe that defining this dossier is another segment where the ministry makes a significant contribution to the development of the economic situation in our country. At this point we are negotiating with 50 credible foreign investors and we believe that most of these contracts will be realised in this year. What is a problem and very strange fact, is the attitude of individual oppositions who are specifically against foreign investors. So we would have a situation in front of "Bosa" in the Caves, in front of "Simens", here now in Kragujevac "Continental", to hold some rally with documentation under the mouse of their matilix and such a heroic speech raises the mood of these workers. They might get a round of applause, but what about after the applause? The workers are going home and they're going to watch that speech on the Internet. As a result, workers in the previous elections sent them to embrace the statistical error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29514	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29515	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. People's MPs ask how much longer is there? Please contact the Deputy Secretary-General and you will be given information. Or e-parliament. So another of the very similar amendments submitted by the MPs and defending them perfectly. I would like to say that I would like to vote in favour of this amendment, with the hope that the MP who so convincingly defends his amendment, which the government has rejected, will not deny everyone the opportunity to vote in the day for the amendment. If it does happen differently, then we will have a considerable confusion of foreign investors, since there is a ruling majority here who strongly supports the government, which is its right, wants to make it easier for them both documents and everything, and the government says they don't need it. Here you go, People's Messenger, say it. It's not a problem. I can do as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29516	Fellow Members, do not communicate directly with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29517	Who started it first?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29518	You haven't been an MP since yesterday, you know how it goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29519	I'm not since yesterday, but I know who starts first. People's MPs are getting it. Can I help you, MP? I can do this by tomorrow, it's no problem, if you want individually or with everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29520	My colleague, it's your time. You can spend it any way you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29521	Of course it's my time, and the colleagues in this room are mine. And I'm glad you're interested in leading at the same time, as said in chess - the Simultan woman. I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29522	Thank you. MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29523	Thank you. I agree with what Col. Comic said and some other opposition colleagues, both on my left and on the right. But I'm less well-intentioned or less mild, favored by the applicants of these amendments than Mrs. Komic, and I think she was just joking, and I think, seriously, it's a waste of time and these people who came to defend the bill. I'm kind of uncomfortable in the name of them, because they came to defend the solutions they believe are good. I don't know how many citizens realize that. We are again attending our own kind of obstruction. I have nothing against foreign investors. Of course, I'm against it if they're favored against homework. So, I wouldn't go into the debate about whether it takes this law or someone else to help and contribute to better engagement and greater participation of foreign investors, it's a completely different topic. Everyone in this room, and above all those who came before the government to defend this bill knows, but perhaps, again, the public doesn't understand until the end, that these amendments were submitted just so that they wouldn't arrive to discuss the amendments tabled by the opposition. You can say whatever you want. You can say that it is the right of every MP to submit an amendment, but you and I and God know that 360 amendments have been made to the first 10 members of the first law, which have nothing to do with the amendment proposal, but is simply formal. I also condemned it when some opposition colleagues also did it with those famous free textbooks. I didn't have the right to do the same, and I thought it was lame. But it was only once and never again. I think the government colleagues also liked it when we discuss the budget, that in this way they are obstructing, and I think in this way we are actually devising both this house and our parliamentary debate, and we are destroying parliament, and in the end, we are wasting time and these people who, I guess, have more important things to do. If the laws are as good as you believe they are, if they're behind these proposals, let's hear some real remarks. Some of them may be pointless, some of them are bad, some of them should be respected, but in this way you do not show respect for whoever proposed these laws, but you are discussing whether or not you need foreign investors, and that is the proposal for an amendment to the first law that is now on the agenda here in this debate. It is quite clear that you would do similarly and that anything else is about asylum, residence, foreigners, anything on the agenda. So, the whole strategy is that in this way, by putting up with false amendments, though, I welcome progress, we've had only marks before, quotes, so it was the whole amendment when some colleagues were putting up with it, now it's worked out here, so it's written down the whole attitude, but I'm saying, you know, you and I, no matter how many people there are, that it's an approach, that it's a strategy that actually serves some kind of obstruction of Parliament's work by the ruling majority, and that has nothing to do with how many of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29524	Comrade Vukadinovic, I've let you speak, otherwise you haven't spoken a single sentence about the amendment. And now I'm going to tell you why. Because, as your colleague, I support that MPs can speak here in the Assembly, where they belong, with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And this is one of the most important roles of the National Assembly and Parliament, not only ours, but everywhere in the world where developed democracies exist, which is that representatives of Serbian citizens, or MPs, lead a kind of dialogue with representatives of the executive government. And everyone has the right, of all 250 of us, to participate in that dialogue. And don't argue with that right, pal. Someone may object to amendments of 250 or 300, and I completely agree, may be the subject of some conversation, but I remember in some times, when some others did power, that one parliamentary group submitted 20 or 30 amendments to the bill, not a thousand. That's how it was and that's how the opposition did it back then. Today it works differently and it is its right, but it is the same right by other MPs who support the government. According to the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29525	I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29526	He just mentioned you, colleague. But here, here, I'll give you a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29527	You're so kind! The MP expressed his view of my feelings, emotions, and my views of jokes. I did... Go ahead, MP. (Marian Risticevic: Emotions? Emotions. Anything else you want to know? Can I help you, MP? How many answers does one person need, and only then a replica of the People's MP Vukadinovic? Because it's forbidden to throw people's MPs in the O.R., so I can use it while I give the replica, since kind Mr. Arsic has given me time for replication. So to express reliable attitudes about what my emotions are and whether I am joking or not requires a replica, since I never joke with the rule of law. Never. Nor will I ever joke with the rule of law, and we here what we do is build a rule of law that can also be seen through the submission of amendments through the relationship of the ruling majority and the government, supported by minorities, or opposition with the right to criticise and compulsory, also, to participate in the rule of law. On the note that I'm benevolent, I don't have a replica, since I am. I think the best thing you can build in yourself as a human being is to be inexplicably kind to all other human beings. It's humane. It's not the rule of law. That's what your grandmother teaches you. If it bothers anyone, I'll have to disappoint you, that I will not change, as I will never joke with the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29528	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29529	Thank you. I'm using my authorized time. Since, as well as my colleagues, I am discussing first and foremost the purpose of these amendments, and as I talk about amendments, I don't think we've lost sight of that subject at all for a moment. I think it is a very important matter of honesty and, as I see colleagues representing the amendments, I must ask the question as well as my colleague Gordana Comic, and I am really very interested in whether these amendments will be withdrawn? How much can we believe in the honesty and well-meaning of these amendments, which, let me repeat, have just happened to be all the first members of the first law? If they are withdrawn, then I think the colleagues who have explained these amendments really owe a lot to explain why they were putting up with them. However, since I do not have the personal dilemma of what these amendments are foreshadowed and I personally have the right to believe that they are designed to stifle every discussion in this assembly, I am interested in something else. If, as you say, you've won every power at every level, you've beaten it all to your feet and shot it all down on your knees, then I'm interested in why it's still so important for you to come up with any possibility to discuss here your proposals that you probably think are great and they're great, and yet, on the other hand, you have a lot of objections about them? So I'm interested in that. I'd like to know that, if what we're saying is immaterial, if no one listens to us, unless no one votes for any of us, then why is it important that no word of ours is heard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29530	Thank you. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29531	I'll do my best to say what no one has ever said. I would tell the opposition the following – when a man talks about others, he should rightly look at himself. That goes for a previous colleague. So what it looked like and what the amendments were made when we didn't start doing what we were doing. Secondly, you, Mr. Vukadinovic, are a public figure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29532	Please, colleague Yokic, no direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29533	You say - in front of the government. It's not in front of the government. It's in the name of the government. Don't, don't. It's a shame. This is Article 107. I think every law needs to potential economics, because without economics, we have no progress, we have no improvement, and in every law we should draw that thread, and this law is grateful to do so. I would talk about efficiency, and for efficiency in the economy, direct foreign investment is the most important thing. Now, I'm going to tell you the information that no one has said, which is very important and which citizens should know. So in the last three years, Serbia has had seven billion euros in foreign direct investment. At the same time, Croatia had four billion. Secondly, do you know that direct foreign investment is in the function of GDP. There's a formula explicitly that connects these two sizes. Their relationship is directly proportional and that we have invested 12 times more than that of our GDP. How did we do that? Exactly, state subsidies, which are increasingly less and less, tax incentives and the competitiveness of the workforce. Now I want to highlight a dual education here. Dual education will contribute to making this competitiveness even better, and now someone wonders why foreign investment is going to happen to us. Here, we had an Elind company in Valjevo, which is an Egal “Grenje”. On October 5th, when it was a revolution, you destroyed Elind. They listen to this and they watch the Valians. Everyone knows that Elinda was not a member of any party. He's never been in a party before. I've been doing party work, going to these meetings. He's never even been to a local community meeting, but you robbed it and destroyed it. There's still backwoods. What did we have to do? There was no funds, we had to hire Burning. If you hadn't robbed, if you hadn't done what you did, the Burning wouldn't have been there. "Elind" would be stronger today than "Erenja". So those of you who took part in it, someone more, someone less, you would have to keep your mouth shut. I said that when you lose the election and you can't talk about it, then don't discuss it for two months if you're going to discuss your vote again, whether someone had the right to vote or not. The choices are what they are, they're over, and that's where they should be put. Secondly, he didn't say, and I'm going to say, in the 2018 budget, we predicted 180 billion at the state level, and 128 billion at the level of the Republic for Investments, and that would just be domestic investment. On the other hand, do you know how many "Gorenje" subcontractors are working in Valjevo? These are all tiny little homemade workshops where the Valjevci work. So at this point, we need them. We gave 100 dinars, right, but what did we get? Every time you add, you have to subtract. So Valjevo did, the state did, we gave them taxes, but when we add up, what did "Gorenje" give Valjev through salaries to the workers, through the help of sports, football and other teams, etc.? We're winning. It's not the happiest solution, but at this point it's the only solution and we're going to try to make more and more of a domestic factor, but that's why it takes time, but what you've done, so you're responsible. For example, I have set you an example of why “The Burning ” appeared in Valjevo and there is no“ Elinda. ” So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29534	Thank you. (Alexandra Chabraya: Replica. ( b) On what basis are you looking for a replica? (Alexandra Chabraya: He mentioned it many times...) He didn't mention you at any time. He mentioned a colleague of Vukadinovic, but at no time addressed anyone in an offensive way. (Alexandra Chabraya: Did you mention me, look at the stenogram. He can mention you, but that doesn't mean you have a right to a replica. He must be insulting you, misreading you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29535	Here, I dare speak after a fellow who normally forbids the opposition's MPs to speak, and apparently that's the attitude of the congregation's majority, since no one has fenced against what he said on Friday in the most terrifying way possible. We've been discussing Article 1 for three hours. I would, first of all, and for the sake of the MPs of some who, I'm almost certain, do not know what this is about, especially for the public, to remind us that we are talking about the draft law on foreigners and to try to explain the meaning and purpose of the amendment of the ruling majority. To be clear, we don't mind, they use their right and they should, but there's a series of illogicalities here. If the government does not accept these amendments rather than accept, then there is obviously a problem in communication, or in the government's support by the ruling majority. If by chance the ruling majority would accept these amendments, then you would have, Minister Stefanovic, an unhumble, very uncomplicated bill, where you would... Minister Stefanovic, I'm speaking to you. Minister Stefanovic, Mr Arsic, draw attention to the need to listen to the MP. This is the highlight of rudeness, but it is no wonder that Minister Stefanovic, who does not want to listen to MPs, says these amendments are not accepted by quality. If the amendments are of quality and the minister has not accepted them, then that means the minister is not of quality. There's no way either, and that's exactly what he's trying to prove. As far as this amendment is concerned, whose purpose is, as they say, economic development and efficiency, here, if indeed the goal is to make efficiency and economic development and bring foreign investors, that here the three-hour majority of stories, then maybe it would make sense to accept these amendments. If these amendments, let's say, are in order to speed up the process of Mubadal's arrival, about construction, about the arrival of investors from the Emirates, about the construction of the chip factory, about the construction of the aircraft parts factory, if based on these amendments, as Vukic said in 2013, we will become a bit of a Balkan miracle, and that I understand these amendments. Of course, none of that. Nor do these amendments make sense, even if they were accepted, nor have they been proposed to really say something to them, but only to spend time, given that we are working on a Rules of Procedure that has limited in a very restrictive way the MPs of the amendments they submit. We have 10 draft laws to which amendments have been tabled, and most likely we will not move further from this first, because we already have more than 300 amendments in this first law – the proposal for a law on foreigners. And yes, it is true what Mrs. Comic has been asking all day, it is quite certain that at the end of this amendment you will withdraw to shorten the voting time. It's the abuse of a bad Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29536	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29537	So, the government's opinion on certain amendments doesn't mean that the amendments are unquality, so just that the government doesn't think they're in line with our thinking about what the law should look like, which the National Assembly can change in voting day, the government has to respect that. I listen very carefully to all the MPs, but I don't have to look at everyone as they speak. So it says the minister should listen, not watch. So I listen to all that the MPs say, and in what direction I will look, it is my business, nor can anyone determine it for me, not even the National Assembly. As for investment, I'm glad that you had the opportunity in previous years to see Johnson Electric, and Svarovski, and Ginsi, and Hilton, and Ikeu, and Mita, and Iron and all that was done well, because without it 170,000 families today would unfortunately be in the same deadlock, in the same hopeless situation they were in a few years ago when they didn't have a salary, they didn't have a job, they didn't have a future, and they were thinking about leaving this country. These 170 thousand families today are thinking about waking up to their jobs, making money. A lot of colleagues talked about it today, and we need to go to these cities to see what transformation these cities had when the investors came. We're talking in a very serious way today. I want to thank everyone who participates in this debate because I see that people have tried, regardless of not all amendments have been accepted, but these amendments, none of them intended to do something bad, but to do something good and to help make these investments even better through the Foreign Law. Of course, the government will do everything in its power to continue, along with the National Assembly, to bring as many investors as possible and to hire as many citizens of Serbia as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29538	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29539	Thank you. I have to join the question, Mr. Chairman, so you've been answering me, Mrs. Comic mentioned me, my colleague mentioned me a little while, and what should happen to me that I have the right to a replica? But here, don't worry, I'm not looking for a replica, let's get this on the line...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29540	I'll give you back all 19 seconds. Don't try to make the chairpersons run the session so they don't respect the Rules of Procedure and the rights of the Members of Parliament. Just because my colleague Jokic corrected you, I can't even say grammatically, but stylishly, for one sentence, for a few words in a sentence, does not mean that he insulted you, please. Ask for a word again, we're counting the time of the beginning. Here you go. Please, colleagues of Obradovice, do not interfere with a colleague of Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29541	I'm used to it. So, I understand your need to replicate to everyone from that place, it doesn't matter, I'm just turning my attention, so, that I'm mentioned, let you now interpret the intentions and Mrs. Comic you gave the right to the replica, although in no way have I offended or called it, but I just suspected that she was a little joke and ironic. However, I stress that this is not a debate about foreign investors, that this is not a topic of whether or not you need foreign investors. It's not even the subject of how successful the government's economic policy was and who came to what place, which city, which the investor and who didn't come and what about Mubadal and what about the chip factory and what about the sheik's money and all sorts of other things, or vice versa, what about Johnson Electric, what about Burning, what about those who came. It's a topic for something else. I draw attention to the fact that here is a word, and that is a colleague from the ruling coalition indirectly and admitted when he said – Now we are doing it; referring to what others used to do. I don't know what some others were doing, as I said, during this call I was dissatisfied when one parliamentary group of opposition, once doing so with those already famous free textbooks, but what the representatives of most people are doing is becoming a manners and I'm really worried because I have the impression that there is an intention, I'm not sure she's aware, and maybe she is, that the opposition is completely kicked out of this parliament. You don't need to regret or worry about what will happen to the opposition, it is what it is, but I draw attention to you already when you mention elections and these previous Belgrades, which should not formally have any connection, that some colleagues sitting here in this assembly have also supported either members of the party or coalition, which has been very well in these city elections. It's simple, there's different stories, but it's not a topic. The theme is whether the abuse of this Assembly is being committed by discussing, as I said, a thousand pages of the law on the agenda at this time the first member of the first act, or law, with amendments that were to be withdrawn. To not be withdrawn anyway, they have nothing to do with it, which is some kind of obstruction and abuse of parliament by the assembly majority. The assembly majority has enough space, there are enough minutes in the general debate to make their views known, to praise the government's policy, generally, as well as the proposed laws. There's no need to do this. I'm not sure that's going to do you much good, as you might say, here's to being self-critical, both of these groups and MPs who had the most time in the previous opposition period, it didn't do them much good in the election. So, let's not slaughter the ox for a kilo of meat, to silence an important or minor representative of the opposition to say something, to actually mock this parliament and procedure. I stress, and I end up with 360 amendments to the first ten members of the first law that happened to be the first. What is it if it's not obstruction? It can be as many of us as it wants, you can silence us as much as you want, it's perfectly clear that this is how the message is sent to both the public and the citizens, and that this is one farce and that parliament serves, that a little bit is being sedated, or the ruling majority is being a little sedated over the opposition and that simply, as per tape, the laws sent by the government are being voted upon. I think it's humiliating even for a government that, I say, I believe is behind these proposals and wants to point out and praise what's good in them. As for Minister Stefanovic, since he has been praised and mentioned here, I also think he has been a very good speaker of parliament, and I have said it many times, better than some other speaker, or speaker of parliament, but as a legislator, there are good and bad solutions. I'd like us to talk about these more good or less good solutions here, when it comes time for our amendments, but it won't come because this is how time is spent to discuss the amendments. Thank you, and I would never answer again, nor ask for a replica on this matter. But keep in mind that the public, however slow and once uninformed, still realizes or finds out somewhere that this is a mockery and a debate about laws, or amendments to the bill, and that this is another way to silence the opposition. What else does the opposition think? God doesn't think he knows what's good, let's be realistic, the good part of the citizens doesn't think very well of the government, and especially not of the opposition. But that's not good, because the institution itself is collapsing in this way, keep in mind, as was the way the debate was conducted last week, that is, on Friday, the Secretary-General's shift, no matter what they think of it and its work, as well as the right of the ruling majority to appoint the Secretary-General. You're doing less. It's about luck, and eventually, you might be in a situation where you regret those procedures you've brought down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29542	The word is made by MP Dragana Barisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29543	Thank you, Your Honor. I really can't believe it. Article 107 has been injured. Right away, I don't want the Assembly to make a statement about whether or not he's hurt, because I believe you have no intention of violating the Rules of Procedure, but apparently here some MPs want to lead the citizens astray. How? A fellow who has spoken for more than five minutes, nearly six minutes, nonstop indicates that Serbian citizens cannot hear the opposition, and as far as I know, he is a member of the national minority and here, for almost six minutes he has spoken in this Assembly, nor has he been banned from talking about the agenda and the amendments, but probably frustrated on the previous results, with the poorly achieved success, trying to lead the citizens of Serbia and all of us astray here. I ask you colleagues to remember and stick to the Rules of Procedure and the agenda and continue to do the right thing, and it is the citizens who decide who they trust, so that's what they said in the recent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29544	My colleagues, as I said at the beginning of today's session, if I try to prevent my colleagues from speaking without insulting anyone, it will turn out that dictatorship is being conducted in Serbia. Let them talk, they need to talk, to turn to the citizens of Serbia in their own way. I am only sorry that the opposition is leading Serbia into a single-party system with its behaviour. They're gonna have to change something. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Dragana Barisic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29545	Thank you. I, of course, cannot support the above-mentioned amendment of my colleague, Mikhail Jokic, but he is a particularly dear colleague to me, because man is quite open and honest in his presentations. On Friday, he said very openly that we from the opposition should be banned from speaking at all in the National Assembly, and I appreciate him for it. He simply openly says what the whole government is thinking and is therefore an honest, honest, and open man. Why can't I support his amendment? Because there is one big problem in this whole spectrum of amendments, Mr. Minister, proposed by the MPs from your ruling majority. Here, I'll try to explain to you what the problem is, so that universally applies to all amendments. Namely, if you, Mr. Minister, as representatives of the Government, propose one law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is a normal parliamentary procedure, if you get 340 amendments from your ruling majority to this law alone, and I will remind you, Mr. Minister, that amendments to corrections to bad places are in law or amendments to the law with a better solution, what does that mean? That means you, Mr. Minister, have made a bad law. The entire ruling majority jumped to change your law, filed 340 amendments. You must seriously, Mr. Minister, imagine if you have any more support for your ruling majority, because they obviously think you're doing your job badly. Watch what happens next. It's getting more interesting. You submit amendments by the MPs of your ruling majority to you, or the Government, and for example. specifically, you tell your colleague Mikhail Jokic – the government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the amendment proposes a substance that is not subject to the regulation of this law and humiliate your own MP and, roughly, in translation, you tell him – Mr Jokić, you have no idea. You are submitting an amendment that is not subject to this law. Please resign as MPs, you do not know that you are doing your job, or you are going to train for the MP to know that you are proposing an amendment to the subject matter of that law which is on the agenda. Then we have the next situation. If the ruling majority here in the National Assembly supports these own amendments, and 340 of them have done so, then I think we should vote here on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government is doing a bad job. The MPs are dissatisfied. Watch out, every law, Mr. Minister, your ruling majority corrects with over 300 or more hundred amendments. Your MPs think you're doing a bad job, they think your legal proposals are bad, they have to be complemented by hundreds of amendments. So, Mr. Minister, I would suggest that we handle this in a gentlemanly way. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not do its job well, the Government of the Republic of Serbia resigns, and your ruling majority, who works better than you, corrects your laws, so that it chooses a new government, because this government is working badly. Or, we have another option that I also suggest to you, I think it's an extremely correct offer on my part, very constructive, because the government is doing a good job, and the MPs are unable to submit a proper amendment and the government is calling them directly in that sense, to change the MPs, since they obviously don't know they're doing their job. So he can't, Mr. Minister, stay the way he is right now. So either the government is doing a bad job, so you have to submit 340 amendments to only one of your laws that you have proposed, and not out of opposition, believe it or not, but by the authority of 340 amendments to one of your laws, so you see how bad the law you have proposed, Mr. Minister. Or the MPs are doing a bad job, and then the government, I will quote once again, Mr. Chairman, says the following -- the government does not accept this amendment proposed by the MEP. Why? For the reason that the amendment proposes a substance that is not subject to the regulation of this law. The government says elegantly – these MPs in the Assembly have no idea, they don't know what the subject of this law is, and they submit the amendment, and so 340 of them. Well, wait, people, change your own MPs, you see they don't know their jobs. Or, gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear colleagues, I would look forward more to this second scenario, changing the government that has passed so bad laws that you have to submit 340 amendments to correct the bad law that one of your ministers has passed. That's the point of my message. I think I'm constructive. There's no reason to be angry. This is about improving the work of our state administration. We are not good with either the government or the ruling majority in the congregation. Either to change the government or to change the ruling majority or to admit that you have submitted these amendments to eat opposition time, that the opposition cannot speak and that only you speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29546	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29547	First of all, whether the law is good or bad decides in the final instance of the National Assembly in the voting day. At that time, MPs show their will and say what they think about the law, whether they accept it or do not accept it on behalf of Serbian citizens who chose them in the elections. However, what is important when MPs work out certain topics, whether they are absolutely legal in this parliament, but always the question of the legitimacy of the people's representatives, which is determined, of course, when elections come and citizens say when they vote in the elections what they think. It changes, it's not a permanent thing, you get elected in one election, after a year, the citizens don't trust you anymore, they give you a small number of votes, and they bring down your legitimacy, those who talk to the lower legitimacy of citizens also judge it. I take this as an invitation to a new election. So I take this as a check, an invitation to check the opinion of Serbian citizens on the territory of the Republic of Serbia as to how the ruling majority and SNS were doing, and that is one legitimate proposal. I'd say yes, that's my private opinion, that we go to those elections as soon as possible, that the people say what they think and maybe it's a good opportunity to see what they think of the others and that they too can see what they think of their work. The citizens of Belgrade said that ten days ago, they said what they thought about everyone and every policy that was running. It is time for citizens in the rest of Serbia to say the same. As far as the law is concerned, I think these proposals, these amendments, are much more quality than those that were "wipe." So, it does not take much of the profession, knowledge or effort to write "expect" and what is shown to Serbian citizens. I mean, not much. With this, some MPs tried to point out what they believed in. If the entire ruling majority will accept their opinion, we'll see. So it's very important that everyone realizes that the right of speech can't only be made possible by one person, and when others come who propose amendments and think they should talk about it, they don't have to do it. So, right, democracy must apply equally to all and that is what parliament is for.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29548	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29549	Thank you, Chairman. He has been injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 108 concerning the session of the National Assembly, as well as by Article 109, which provides for a reminder to be given to the MP. Namely, as my two previous predecessors have said, two MPs, this one from the national minority Vlaska, this other, God knows, the world's largest Serb, as it says, every government law we supplement and improve, and that's the truth, let's say, that we're trying to improve and supplement legal proposals as our legitimate right. However, each election process sends them a message that they are not desirable. Every election process of the people punishes them and therefore remains on 2% of the voting bodies. Accordingly, of course, we MPs receive a message from the people, and in no way will we allow this parliament to disenfranchise and block its work by only submitting amendments and spending time alone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we can't and we have no intention of stopping it, but of course we're going to participate in the debate equally with the opposition. Accordingly, says my colleague Vlahovic, Vukadinovic, I apologize that we have submitted many amendments, 350 to this bill, so my God, we should not explain them, etc. For the sake of the public, the public judges on this basis, we have submitted 350 amendments, but the opposition has also filed. Djordje Vukadinović, or I have the wrong material, submitted an amendment to Article 48, Bosko Obradović to Article 46, 47, 48, 49, 50. I don't have any problem explaining all these amendments. Please stop this hysteria in the future and do not allow the denial of the rights of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29550	Thank you. I don't think the provisions of the Rules of Procedure you've listed have been violated. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29551	Thank you, Honorable Chairman Arsic. I will just look back at Minister Stefanovic's discussion, when it comes to the first replica, and I will say the following, therefore, is about the investments they had aimed at and that have resulted in the whole settlements, the entire municipalities, the entire cities in the Republic of Serbia, that thousands of families have the conditions to stay where they lived and live with dignity from their work. I will only mention the example of Krupanja and the investment "Ginsy" there, which employs more than 500 people. Do you know what it means for a little Krupanj such an investment? Do you know what "Teklas" means in Vlad's Han? The minister was talking about Smederev. Five and a half thousand people, five and a half thousand families that depend on the work of Jelizara in Smederev. That's what this coalition in power is fighting for. That's what the government of the Republic of Serbia and the majority in parliament are fighting for. For life, for new jobs, for modern, strong and prosperous Serbia. That's what we're going to stand for, of course, in the next period. I would like one of the previous speakers, criticised, I suppose, because we debate most of the debate, because we want to express our opinion, of course, in the best interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia... No one referred to when Mr Radulovic tabled 175 amendments to various members of the law concerning free textbooks. That wasn't obstruction? I guess that was in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in their best interest. I'm asking all colleagues from the majority, the opposition, to allow one quality debate. There's no reason not to debate for one, two, five days. This is also the essence of parliamentary democracy, and we will continue to advocate the "Mubadal" here and for the chip factory, and for the textile factory, and for everything that is needed for all cities, the entire municipalities to live in the Republic of Serbia and to meet the set goal, and that is the unemployment rate less than 5% in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the functioning of the opposition, I would like to point out and perhaps ask distinguished colleagues to make a concrete proposal. Thirty minutes we are talking about procedural matters – do the majority representatives have the right to speak in parliament? Maybe some particular proposal, maybe some proposal, maybe some particular investment, someone who's interested in investing here, to live. Perhaps that would be better and make our work better and more motivated to work better and better. I'll remind you of the current President Vukic when he was in opposition, the president of the SNS City Committee then, when they brought Rudy Giuliani here. The "Beograda on Water" project did not protect itself and keep it secret, but with the project came before the then government and offered it because it is in the best interest of the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. It is patriotism and it is how political competitions in one political game should behave – responsible for both our country and our citizens' interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29552	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29553	I want to contribute to a quality debate, as the previous MP said. With regard to foreign investment, we as People's MPs in the 2018 budget have not had the opportunity to see what 11 billion subsidies are provided for by the Ministry of Economy. So, you can't just talk here about helping domestic investment, that the government has done a lot of work to help domestic businesses, because it must have been a much bigger cost for foreign investors. That's why we think it's not as great as the ruling coalition's representatives say. I will give you an example of a factory in Novi Sad which was pompously opened in February 2016, where it was announced that it would raise the level and better standard of citizens of Novi Sad, where two thousand people were employed then. But people get away from your factory all the time, and now, a few months ago, I repeat, the competition, where several hundred workers are wanted, because people don't want to work for 30,000 dinars. We are talking about foreign investors who are willing to really invest in the market and in a better life in Serbia's citizens, not invest in their markets, but use our cheap labour force to improve the lives of their citizens in countries where they come from. Don't brag about how we attract more investment than Romania. Of course, foreign investors will come here when the average salaries in Romania are 700 euros and in Slovenia 1000 euros. For every investor, it is better to come to Serbia where 50% of people work below 300 euros. Serbian citizens should know that. Just let people go to the Delfi factory, where they are nonstop competitions, where people stand and tie up some cables for 10 hours and spend three months receiving new workers, because workers are leaving, and managers and commercialists are going to the villages of Banat and Backa and looking from house to house for workers. It's your condition at the Delfi factory. That's why people are running from Serbia, so people will never agree to work in this country for 300 euros in salaries offered by foreign investors. That's why we're for domestic economy, for domestic agriculture. Now I ask the question here to the citizens of Serbia – is the PKK also planning to sell to foreigners, sell to Arabs, not to remain owned by the state of Serbia, or is it owned by a domestic investor, through a public and private partnership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29554	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Articles 27 and 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29555	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, the reason for the amendment is that foreigners, i.e. those who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, are allowed to make the process of solving current administrative problems as short as possible, such as this case, to provide personal documents. Foreign citizens, as future investors, one of the responsible factors in the development of our country's economy, should have a secure way towards better and easier functioning, all in order to provide adequate financial resources. Only in the New Market is the establishment of good relations and the signing of the agreement, primarily with the Republic of Turkey, of new opportunities to attract and a large number of investors to start production in the region are announced. It is a great opportunity for Novi Pazar, but the issue of ensuring a favourable business environment and good conditions for the business of foreign investors is immediately raised. The adoption of this amendment will address the ongoing problems that arise when investors arrive in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and thus create equal rights for everyone and allow foreign capital to arrive on our market, which absolutely ensures economic development, both our end and the New Market from which I come and the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29556	National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29557	Thank you. In part, I agree that these amendments concerning the Law on Foreigners that we are applying, in fact, may not be directly brought about by the economic growth and development of Serbia, but everything you do in a national economy has indirect ties. When we pass the Law on Education, the laws on sports, it all affects the budget on one side or the other. When you look at how the state of Serbia works at the moment, then the current account deficit of the Republic of Serbia is now fully covered by foreign direct investment. So, when did we happen to have a larger inflow of foreign direct investments than what our deficit is? Serbia made foreign direct investments of two billion and 400m euros in 2017. According to this economic criterion, we are 27.1% more than we planned in 2017. If you look at how our foreign greenfield investments are going, then Serbia is one of the world's leading economic countries according to that parameter. The world could not be and cannot be, unless you have an inflow of foreign investment, or foreigners, who have to regulate their papers in the functioning of the Serbian state. In fact, when you talk about foreign direct investment, foreign indirect investment, we are actually talking about employment growth in the state of Serbia. That is why foreign direct investment is identical to what we can define as a reduction in the number of unemployed in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29558	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Marian Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29559	Ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed. Here in parliament, there is a person who often accuses us of dictatorship, and has given himself the right to ask the government and the minister to replace the MPs. Imagine this democratically-oriented figure that requires the government to replace MPs? Unbelievable. Here, I'll admit, I filed the amendments so I wouldn't be here as a clay pigeon. So I don't listen to ten hours of those I don't have, most of them, that I don't sin on my soul, I have nothing to hear. I've decided for ten hours to share, some of my colleagues, have been doing it lately, and I think it's smarter to listen to ourselves, to promote what the government has done, than to listen to those of whom I have nothing to hear, let's say the government needs to change MPs, and they say against dictatorship. I'll tell him right away, since he's got something to do with the tycoons, he represented that attitude, stamped the money, gave some tycoons, and thus developed the economy. I ask all of us, it's about the amendment, is it a sin to pump money into the country? Could it be a greater sin to pump money out of the country? These previous ones who support some new "sugars" with them in the coalition, they seem to be the attitude that sin is to bring money into both the economy and the country, and it wasn't a sin to bring money out of the economy and the country, not only through wild, predatory privatisation, but out of donor support, out of credit, for someone else's money you buy other people's goods, you ruin the country, you fire 400,000 people. It's that replica of emotion. So there's no emotion when money's being spent. According to international organisations, it was exported from the country from 2001 to 2010, unwarranted, past the rules, financial, 51 billion, and from 2004, 40.83 billion dollars. It's not a sin, it's not an emotion for them when money was being spent, when 400,000 people were fired, now that they need to iron their mistakes and hire those people, it's now a sin to bring in that money, to hire hundreds of thousands of people in the economy, to bring money into the economy and to produce it. That's why I chose to promote GDP growth, growth in production. Its GDP growth was on services, trade in foreign goods for foreign money. The growth of coverage of imports of exports, to promote stability of course thanks to diaspora and investment with money of foreign origin. Stability of course, stability, low inflation rate, increased employment. That's why I'm putting up with the amendments because I want to promote it, because they have nothing to promote. They say the people gave them a little, these from here, my friends. I say to them, the people have given them much of what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29560	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29561	Dear Chairman, counterpart Arsic, I think that Risticevic has said enough, but the fact that he mentioned that one of our basic goals is to increase GDP, and it is not a secret that our goal, the government's goal, is to achieve GDP growth from the time of Milan Stojadinovic, therefore, between 1935 and 1939. I think we'll be successful on that field and on that mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29562	Thank you. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29563	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which should ensure that foreigners in our country receive the necessary personal documents in order to develop economically. Of course, it's about foreigners and investors. Before I say a few words to explain my amendment, I would first of all like to point out that the economy of the Republic of Serbia is based on local economic development, on the development of local economy and the strengthening of domestic investors, and that is what is not at stake, but today we are definitely talking about foreigners and investors because before us the Law on Foreigners and issuing personal documentation to foreign investors is definitely one of the important measures of attracting investment and stabilising state finances. This process, of course, we insist on always being organised at the highest level, at the state level and the state looks at it, above all, to ensure serious security assessments, checks and origins of money entering our country. What should be pointed out is that by 2013 Serbia was not a serious partner to foreign investors, that no one had taken it seriously, so it was not legally regulated to come from foreigners and investors, so we are now insisting that through all the laws, of course, it is now on the agenda, to take this into account, because now Serbia has an extraordinary advantage, as its geographical location, duty-free exports to the countries of Southeast Europe and Russia, excellent macroeconomic stabilisation, then a successful fiscal consolidation we have implemented, we have a low rate of inflation, an improved business environment, we have climbed the Doing Business List, for 44 places we have advanced and, what is very important, that we are in the top 10 reformers of the world. What I still want to say is, in three years, 170,000 jobs and an annual inflow of foreign direct investment of 2.1 billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29564	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29565	I thank the chairman. The amendment that my colleague Vlahovic and I have submitted concerns Article 1. Proposal for a law on foreigners, Article 2 to add in the sense that the Foreigning Law should allow future investors in the Republic of Serbia to obtain the necessary personal documents to develop the Agenda 2030's implementation economically. We, on several occasions, wanted to draw attention when it came to legislative proposals when it comes to the 2030 Agenda's sustainable development goals, which is normally the obligation of all states to sign in with the UN. Serbia is one of those signatories, so it, according to its obligations to implement these 17 UN targets, is a fundamental reduction in poverty, the other is sustainable economic development, so it simply does everything to make the inflow of foreign direct investment much bigger than expenditure. That's what Serbia has been carrying, especially when it comes to the reform course for the past four years. What is important to say today, and based on this discussion, we have seen that certain members of the opposition parties want in a certain way to disqualify both the profession and the people sitting here in parliament with the highest titles, if this was not enough to prove why foreign and direct investments are the need to reduce poverty, then they should listen to the Association of Economists of Serbia, the Faculty of Economics and Professors of Hungary, who, in their works at the end of 2016, says that there has been a shortage in the accumulation of capital when we talk about Serbia and that this is one of the great reasons for the necessary orientation towards foreign capital, i.e. towards investors who are to come here to Serbia and to invest their capital. What Serbia has done since then is that it has passed a Law on Joint Investment, which refers to equal treatment for both foreign and domestic investors in Serbia. On the other hand, we should keep reminding people who are now an opposition that domestic investors are not creditworthy, nor organisationally to lead a competitive business match with foreign investors precisely because those who led the country by 2012 over-indebted them and brought them literally to the brink of economic downturn. So we today, in the past four years and in the future, are dealing with countries that are side by side of the most developed countries in the EU. Serbia is on foreign direct investment, we heard, over two billion euros had investments in the past year, 40% of foreign direct investments in the total number of Western Balkan countries. So Serbia is the leader in foreign direct investment, investment and therefore we have 17,000 new jobs in the past four years. Of course investors will come where there is a better investment environment, where inflation is safe, where it is projected at the lowest level, where you have a stable exchange rate, where you are provided with an economic growth of about 3% and where there are laws you will not wait for all year to start working, which was the case until 2012. Why is this amendment my colleague and I are setting up now? It is because foreign investors should have their own personal documents in accordance with UN protocols that I have signed, because they will have the opportunity to attract, in accordance with the 2030 Agenda, certain UN funds in a certain way, and to bring that money as their capital here into Serbia from which, of course, our employees, the budget of Serbia and everyone will benefit. So the opening of new jobs best shows the unemployment rate, which was 26% in 2012, and today is 13.3%. Therefore, this amendment aims to draw attention to the 2030 Agenda, which is our commitment until 2020 to gradually implement into our legislative system. We are aware that this is not possible overnight, and that is why we propose amendments like this. We are aware that it may not be the time for this amendment to simply be accepted, but no one can forbid us as MPs of the ruling party to submit amendments and to present our good ideas to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29566	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29567	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we, as SNS MPs, have submitted this number of amendments because we want to discuss, we want the citizens of Serbia to hear what our ideas are about investment, about the future, about what awaits them in the years ahead. We have heard, unfortunately, something in the National Assembly that we should not hear. We should not hear that we do not need investment, that we do not need investment, that some people are not needed in Serbia. In Serbia, at least while SNS and Aleksandar Vukic are in power, welcome all investors from the east, the west, the north and the south. It is also possible that investment is one of the key roles played by the ministry run by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. If Serbia were not a safer country, if it were not more stable, if we hadn't performed so hard and bravely in the fight against corruption and crime, we wouldn't have an increased number of investments in Serbia. Because investors flee from those countries where political killings are common, in which corruption is spread at every step, in which corruption flourishes and grows like mushrooms after rain. That's what Serbia used to look like. There is no corruption in Serbia today. Systemically, in Serbia today we are fighting corruption at every turn and investors are safe in Serbia today. In Serbia, every investor's money is safe. Why are foreign investments particularly important to us? They're important because of the advanced and complex technologies that they have, the creditworthiness of foreign investors, because there's a lot we can't pair them with domestic capital. But it is important that our investors also try to reach those standards that foreign investors have, and in that sense, all investors and money all in Serbia, if it is clean and legal, are equally and welcome. In the voting day, I will therefore support all legislative proposals and vote in favour of the amendments of my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29568	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Kovacevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29569	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, my amendment refers to making it possible for foreign investors to obtain the necessary personal documents faster, and for the purpose of economic development and better use of economic potentials. By adding this item to Article 1. The foreign law would further strengthen the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which it is investing in Serbia's overall economic development. It is known that for some time already, more specifically several years ago, they have moved from words to actions and that the business environment in Serbia has been significantly improved. First of all, the economy today has what it cannot grow without in any country, which is political stability. With such a basis, there is constant harmonisation of legal frameworks with best practice in developed countries. Serious financial incentives are provided, but also free training and mentoring. In previous years, the needs of the economy have been carefully listened to, and this year's programmes are also better than the previous ones. When I say – programmes, I mean the Ministry of Economy programmes to support the micro and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs sector, because of their ideas, efforts and entrepreneurship depend on both Serbia's growth and development speed. This sector is the backbone of the economy and the driver of growth and job creation. Encourageing small businesses helps to definitely cross with an infamous legacy, and primarily with the state's awareness that it is the state that offers jobs, but that business is sought and created, and the state creates an environment that promotes the development of entrepreneurship, as in other successful countries. A special accent in these programmes was thrown at the support of beginner entrepreneurs. Any good idea will have the government's support, both financially and in terms of free training and mentoring. On the other hand, foreigners who want to invest in Serbia have capital, have an idea and are welcome anyway. As fast as we can get their IDs, we'll make it easier for them to function and we'll gain their trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29570	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. It's my colleague's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29571	Dear Chairman, our amendment refers to being in Article 1. The proposal for a law on foreigners adds Article 2 which reads: "The law on foreigners should allow future investors in the Republic of Serbia to obtain personal documents faster, in order to develop economic and greater social equality". When we talk about the proposal for a law on foreigners, we must realise that during the current law, problems are identified that cannot be overcome without precise defining the standards relating to the entry, stay and movement of foreign citizens in the Republic of Serbia, and in line with the objective of improving the national system of legal and illegal migration. The adoption of a new law, except that in a more precise and modern way, conditions for the entry, movement and residence of foreigners are to be laid down, we believe, should be precise and easier for foreign investors to arrive and thus affect the increase in the number of foreign investments themselves. A question of social justice, i.e. Equality of social inclusion and poverty reduction has been one of the top policy priorities of the Republic of Serbia's government for six years. 10-15 years ago, the Republic government then pushed a large number of citizens to the margins of society and prevented them from participating in economic, economic and social flows with their full capacity. All that was happening during that period, many citizens of Serbia have distanced themselves from basic civilization flows, from equal opportunities for education, for treatment, employment and income. The amendment is an attempt to comply with the policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the injustice of the ID. Investments in the economy and the opening of new factory facilities were these foreign or domestic investors, the only way to increase the employment of Serbian citizens, to make the same citizens through their work a decent profit and provide conditions to get themselves and their family off the sidelines of society, where they ended up with an irresponsible policy of former owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29572	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29573	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, as we have said above all, takes care of the security of the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and foreigners themselves. With regard to Article 1, paragraph 2, which is added and which reads - the Foreign Law should enable future investors, those who want to invest in the Republic of Serbia, are meant to be foreigners, faster obtaining personal documents, in order to economic development of undeveloped municipalities. I must stress once again what is absolutely known, that one of the preconditions for the continuation of the Eurointegration process is precisely and complete harmonisation with European legislation, therefore, the area of movement and residence of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in today's circumstances, in a way necessary to ensure primarily the highest level of respect for human rights, but to ensure the highest degree of security and legal certainty, both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and foreign citizens entering and staying in our country. That is why it is necessary to define precisely each member of this law and to that end these amendments are proposed. The objective of the amendment to Article 1 is to strengthen this law from the Government of the Republic of Serbia the declared overall economic development of undeveloped municipalities, in the sense of enabling foreigners to obtain the necessary personal and other documents necessary for investment in our municipalities, especially in undeveloped areas. Foreign investors are not used to countries in the environment or other world metropolises to slow administration and long procedures for obtaining documentation, which significantly disrupts plans and directs investment, so the adoption of this law, as I said, is a significant step in facilitating conditions for the flow of investment in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29574	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29575	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, in particular in light of significant economic growth in Serbia, I would have just absorbed an adequate attitude of the state towards investors. I would also have to remind fellow MPs, but also our auditorium, therefore, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching and listening, that GDP growth in January of this year is 4.2%, that it is even above projected values. Do you think the attitude of the Serbian state towards investors is different so that there will be growth at all? Not only in this security aspect of which my colleague Filipovic spoke, but I am now talking about the state's relationship in terms of and helping these investors and providing an adequate economic environment for their work. In this very spirit, I propose this amendment that makes it easier for future investors to obtain personal documents. I think it's natural to shorten these bureaucratic procedures, especially for those people who, I would say, make a significant and adequate contribution to the growth of the economy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29576	Thank you. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Olivera Pesic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague named Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29577	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with co-workers, I have proposed this amendment to add Article 1 to Article 2 which reads: "The law on foreigners should allow future investors in the Republic of Serbia to obtain personal documents more quickly in order to develop and reduce unemployment." The purpose of this amendment is to speed up economic development in the Republic of Serbia, where President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia work tirelessly over the previous years. This amendment will help avoid administrative problems that could create a bad picture of Serbia as a place of investment, which certainly does not stand, because since the SNS was in power in previous years, in Serbia, 170 thousand new jobs have been opened, the unemployment rate has been reduced from 26.5% to 13.5%, 55 factories across the country of Serbia have been opened and the time I have available is not enough for me to simply count all cities and municipalities in Serbia where new factories have opened in previous years. Twom euros of direct investment entered Serbia alone in 2017 alone, 130km of highways were built, 360km of local roads, 480km of state roads. Moreover, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done much to improve economic development and reduce unemployment, and this amendment allows future investors in the Republic of Serbia to obtain personal documents faster to speed up economic development and reduce unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29578	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. With the work we continue at 15.00 hours, the debate on the amendment submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29580	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the objective of my amendment is to economic development and reduce social differences. By 2012, it took at least a year to get any documentation, personal documents to open a company/factory to foreign investors. Thank God, by coming SNS to the head of the country in 2012, that period has dropped 10 and 20 times. In fact, we're issuing licenses today for up to 30 days, and I think that deadline will be reduced. Bravo, that's how responsible authority works. In Serbia today, they are investing from both the East and the West, and why, the mass of investors? Because it's our political course towards the EU, but neutrality is military. That's why we have more than 2,000,000 investment on the annual level. That's why we hired over 170,000 people. That's how the responsible government works, and that's a good social policy. That's how poverty is reduced. In 2012 unemployment was 27%, today it is 12% with a decrease to 5%. It's a European level. What is fascinating to me, and I come from the municipality of Voždovac, is that 330 employees are employed in my municipality. I have just received information that besides this beautiful factory, a risyle park will be built, which means an additional number of citizens will be employed, and another 1,200 workers will be employed over the next five years, the investment will be over 200,000 euros. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29581	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29582	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that some MPs here, mostly sitting across from us, are trying to challenge our right to submit amendments, I would say even the prohibitions of our right, here, I have dared to submit an amendment to Article 1. A proposal for a law on foreigners in which I predicted adding a new attitude. That would be attitude two if my amendment was accepted. It reads – The Law on Foreigners should allow future investors in the Republic of Serbia to obtain the necessary personal documents more quickly for the purpose of economic development and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. The explanation followed by my amendment reads that the amendment aims to strengthen the overall economic development and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by this law. As is known, the Law on Foreigners was adopted in 2008, when a whole series of sublaws following this law were adopted, although the application of this law itself began in 2009. However, the adoption of a new law is necessary, especially if we have a constant change in the area of migration. So, changes in the overall population movement. Here, for example, let's just take a major refugee crisis that's been going on for the past few years. Therefore, all these new circumstances, but also the need for more comprehensive regulation of the area of movement and residence of foreign citizens, so foreigners in the Republic of Serbia, and I would particularly like to highlight this opportunity of the Action Plan for Chapter 24, so sub-chapter – Migration, I hope that colleagues have read the sub-chapter – Migration and Chapter 24, conditioned the adoption of a new law on foreigners. I personally believe, in addition to all the above, that it is necessary to emphasise in every place the need for economic development and modernisation of Serbia, and these are all the reasons why I have submitted this amendment, which in every sense supports all these intensities that I have cited. Economic development and modernisation are certainly priorities for us. The reason for this is the condition in which we found Serbia after we took responsibility for the execution of the authorities from yellow pests, therefore, all of what we inherited from them and what we are trying to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29583	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29584	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a while ago we could hear from some of the opposition representatives criticising one of the investments in Novi Sad, which is the investment of the US company Delfaj in which I personally participated and I am very pleased to have participated in the team of Mayor Milos Vučević, who brought this investment to Novi Sad. We could hear the criticism that the salaries were small, that people were running away from this factory and a lot of other negative things. But reality is really different. Salaries in Delfay can even go to those positions my fellow opposition MP spoke of, can go up to 45,000 dinars. One of the conditions is that people, believe it or not, come to work regularly. The second thing, what my opposition colleague said was that "Delfaj" allegedly goes from house to house and is looking for workers, and that's not true. Do you know why they go looking for workers? Because they have competition and they have serious competition, the other company that we brought to Novi Sad, which also employs 3,000 people and Delfaj, which is now called "Aptiv", employs 3,000 people. So a total of 6,000 people are currently employed in Novi Sad and because they have competition, they are looking for more workers and they will still be employed by people. What I was about to say, too, and what I think is important is that they mentioned that such investments are devastating, that these kind of support to investors are devastating, but the reality is completely opposite, because these incentives have proved to be an excellent instrument for attracting investors. It's not just that. The World Bank's analysis showed that the total amount of expected public revenue is 4,08 times the total amount of subsidies granted. The expected time to return incentives through public revenues is 14.07 months, which shows the justification of these subsidies to investors. As for the equality of domestic and foreign investors, my colleagues mentioned the Investment Law, and this is the law that has leveled domestic and foreign investors, and not only that, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the need to reduce, i.e. to lower the threshold that is necessary, that is, the threshold of the number of people that the investor has to hire to get, and not only that, but also the amount of investment itself. So now, for undeveloped municipalities, a potential investor must employ a minimum of ten people, while for developed municipalities it is 50 people. That threshold I was talking about was reduced from 250 to 100,000 euros. Thanks to this, last year we had domestic investors who received subsidies such as "Bekament", then "Fos" from Surdulica, "TIM COP" from Novi Sad, "St. Nikola" from January and "Chipsway" from Cačka. It is thanks to these measures that Serbia is currently negotiating with investors for 54 investment projects, whose total value would be over 2.5 billion euros and which would employ 29,000 people in Serbia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29585	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29586	Thank you, Chairman. In order to keep up with the world, I mean, first of all, economic development, we approach the creation of new legal solutions that will allow people who are not our citizens to come to Serbia and start their business in our environment and with our people. We want to facilitate the stay of foreigners in our country and enable them to fit into society and social flows as easily as possible, i.e. make our country an even more attractive place for foreign investors and foreigners who come to Serbia. The fact is that by the social and demographic structure of states that have tolerance for multiculturalism and respect and tolerance of all kinds of diversity. I have to say that my hometown of Nis has been one sad city for many years, with no perspective, because the former regimes have destroyed everything that was allowed to be destroyed in time. Thanks to the great engagement, perseverance and perseverance of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, 214m euros of foreign investment has been invested in the City of Nis so far. The following factories are mentioned: ‘Beneton’, ‘Jura’, ‘Shin Von’, ‘Jonson Electric’, ‘Aster textiles’, ‘Leoni’ in Malošte, ‘Leoni’ in Nis, ‘IME Jurop’, ‘Cuntobel’, which currently employs 9,460 workers, and in 2018 another 2,440 workers are expected, while the total expected number of employees is 17,150. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29587	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29588	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, all the laws we are discussing today, which are on the agenda, are certainly in the direction of creating an excellent legal framework, which would confirm that Serbia is a safe and open country to foreign investment and foreign investment. Regardless of all today's criticisms, quite certainly serious investments and this level of investment that we are witnessing would not be if institutions in the Republic of Serbia did not function, that we do not have a good legal framework and, above all, that the legal system and the judiciary did not work. Unlike those who, in 2009 with a catastrophic reform of the judiciary, effectively drove serious investors out of Serbia, changes that took place and laws that are being passed creating a reliable framework and a real framework for foreign investors. They relate, on the one hand, to solving problems concerning the speed of solving cases, concerning the speed of issuing licences and regarding the functioning of courts. In that sense, the activity in the Serbian parliament concerning the adoption of the Mortgage Act, the establishment of a public-book system, the adoption of the law on enforcement and security, which solved over a million old cases, says that it is precisely doing everything to facilitate business in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, a very important segment of this is also the fight against crime and corruption. The laws that have been passed, the Code on the Protection of Alertors, a law relating to the organisation of the fight against crime and corruption, which took effect some time ago, where strike groups are formed within prosecutors, all of this contributes to Serbia being a country where laws are passed, where institutions function, and without a serious rule of law, without strong institutions, without good laws, there is no investment. This is a confirmation of why the growing number of foreign investors defined as coming to the Republic of Serbia and certainly the state of Serbia is becoming a safe and right place for the investments themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29589	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29590	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with ministry associates, respected citizens, who loses the right to be angry, has the right to his own opinion, but has no right to speak lies and misinformation, and this is exactly what the opposition in today's session is doing, and I would like to, above all, deny them, and precisely in the part of whether domestic investors are in the same rank as foreign investors. Of course, they're in the same place, and I think they're even ahead of me, because they're in their field of course, they know the customs and the way they operate in Serbia. They certainly have the advantage of applying for certain funds, and all those who do not know, to read the Investment Act, to enter the Ministry's website and read a public call in which everything is clearly defined, where there is not one percent or a fraction of the percentage of the difference between domestic and foreign investors. I repeat, domestic investors are in favour of working on their market, the market they know. Why foreign investors? Just because all major projects in the last few years come from foreign investors, and those who do not believe, let them go to any city in Serbia, let them go to Novi Sad, let them go to Zrenjanin, let them go to Ruma, let them go to Koceljev. There was a Room before 2012 in the same place as there is now, so several factories have been opened since 2012. I will remind, and these are different investors, from France "Hachinson" will employ 200 workers, from Nepal "Vai Vai" will employ 407 workers, "Kableks" from Slovenia hired 110 workers, and not in Ruma, but in Platchev. You can imagine how much it means to one place that is the size of Platiceva when one plant is opened in such a place, how important it is for Platchev alone, and several such investments are driven by the entire region and all of Serbia. There is, of course, Calcedonia from Italy and not to mention further, 1,375 new workers were employed in Ruma for only 2014 and 2015. Why is it important that we have a good law? It's important that all of them are strangers who know where they are coming from, know they're coming to an orderly state, know they're coming to a country where they know clearly what and in what way, what their rights are and how they can exercise their rights. It doesn't matter if that foreigner is an investor, whether he's a tourist or only in transit, it's important to come to a safe country, to a country where it's clear what is what they have the right and what is what they have no right. It is all these laws that are now in the process that will further strengthen the stability and security of the state, and to that end, this amendment that I have submitted to improve the Investment Law, or the Foreign Law, because it is these foreigners who are the main investors who will work on these facilities and just raise their level and level of our economy on that step that it used to be on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29591	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague, Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29592	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, above all respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing the amendments that we have submitted to this side, and colleagues from the opposition, but first of all I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that those who worship us all morning and day from the SNS, that we have proposed these famous 360 amendments, in this room can count on the fingers of one hand. The same people who have been telling us all morning that they are pointless amendments, I have to say to the citizens and colleagues that they have submitted amendments by making a circus out of the Assembly, they wanted to provide Santa's passage, and today's amendments are the type to be deleted, where again no single proposal for the good of our citizens. Since by 2012, we have fought with these yellow companies and fortunately, primarily Serbian citizens, we have managed to put an end to their rule and finally get the SNS headed by Mr. Vukic and start something better. And today we have a very good proposal, and these amendments of ours can also be used to promote all the good that has been done, and a lot has been done. Simply, through these 360 amendments, you can't sit down and show up. I come from Kruševec, and I want to say in a few sentences, that this law will solve a lot of things and all those workers left by you from the yellow company put locks on the street on all these factories, namely the Government of Aleksandra Vukic and Mr Bratislav Gasic, who is my fellow citizen from Kruševec, managed to get back to work, and how? By resolving legal property relations at attractive locations in the environment, both in Kruševec and the environment, they managed to obtain 50 ha of land and, of course, to make use of foreign investors. One of these investors is the Cromberg Schubert factory, which already employs a lot of workers and already over 400 workers working in Cromberg, and these gentlemen from the yellow company have recently said that there is nothing to do with it, that they are just stories, but we continue with our good policy and the policy behind which the results are and of course we get bigger and bigger support from citizens, so that their frustration and frustration at previous sessions are obviously the result of their poor election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29593	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29594	I thank the Honorable Chairman. With this amendment to the law, I wanted to support the efforts and work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the economic-sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia and all in the context of the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development of the UN. One of the elements in this sustainable development is the eradication of poverty. I'm very interested in that, considering that, and I have to mention my city, the city I come from, and that's King's, where it's been working for years to shut it all down, shut it down, just needed someone to shut it all down. Fortunately for us, this is not going to happen, since the investor, one of the two investors who are starting to work in the Kingdom this year, has launched an arrangement of the location at which the production plant will open by half a year. I'd like to point out to all the dear colleagues who seem to or don't read the laws, or don't know what we voted for and what we voted for, that the investors of the domestic and foreign countries are not doubled, that they all have the same obligations and the same rights, and I'm glad that I was in that assembly council council that passed those laws, and that, if someone doesn't know, they can go out on the Development Agency website and read it. Here, the other day a public call was issued where our investors, our producers, can compete for, well, if they have some development projects, for loans funded by the state, or the Republic of Serbia, worth up to 62 million and 500 000, where the grants are 12.5 million, so who didn't know how to get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29595	Thank you. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlić together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bosko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29596	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow this assembly debate in particular, I am obliged to read to you, above all, exactly how the reasoning of this amendment that we have repeated in the other members of the first three laws, because we believe that it can simply apply to all of them. Here's that explanation. "There are no conditions under existing parliamentary practice for the normal work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the democratic procedure, and we believe that this law should not be adopted in general or with changes in particular until these corrections are passed. The procedure for adopting legal solutions has been questioned by the absence of public debate and obstructions of parliamentary discussion by the ruling majority. This specifically concerns laws that directly concern the problems of a vast number of migrants who have passed through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are presently located in reception centres or as asylum seekers can be returned from EU countries to the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of proposed legal solutions should be hitched until the accumulated anomalies and irregularities in the functioning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are corrected. One of the first conditions is certainly the resignation of National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, the urgent appointment of meetings on the topical topics, as well as the inclusion in the agenda of legislative and other proposals by opposition parliamentary groups. This home of the National Assembly is not only home to the government, but it has equal rights, that is, the MPs of the opposition. We have come to the situation that the National Assembly has abolished its control function over the work of the executive authority and that the executive authority is leading the country without reporting on its work and monitoring of parliament. “ If you will allow me, Mr. Chairman, I will use some more of the time I have as authorized, to explain once again what we wanted to say to these people. So Serbia has a huge problem, because virtually all the institutions of this country have been questioned, above all, by the National Assembly as the most important state institution, then, the media, or freedom of the media, a fair and fair electoral process at all levels and, of course, the parliamentary democracy we have known for the past 30 years. It is of paramount importance to us that through these amendments we point to this complete public so that people can actually get the right picture of what is happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For example, let me give you a very specific example. You, as representatives of the current government, boast good relations with Hungary. You point out that Mr. Viktor Orban, Prime Minister of Hungary, is your great friend. I think it's a good thing and a lot of good things can be learned from Victor Orban. The problem is that what is done in Hungary is not done in Serbia, and it is a dam for a huge migrant rush that comes to Europe's territory. If you are following closely the Republic elections that are currently under way in the neighbouring country of Hungary, the key Parole of Viktor Orban is – fewer migrants, and more children in Hungary, exactly what we from the Serbian Movement of the Dvora are telling you here for years, that the problem of the white plague is the biggest problem of this country, that support for the birth of young married couples and families with more children is a key issue, not the care of migrants, which you are actually insisting on. You are even changing laws to comply with EU directives. Is there any need for me to read you the sections of each of your laws? Each of your laws contains the exact same formula - the aim of this law is to bring national legislation into line in the field of legal and regular migration, for example. with EU directives governing this area. And in every law that you bring to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that it is adopted under the EU directive. Be careful, not one word but the right word - according to EU directives. Does the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia serve to pass laws under EU directives or can any topic ever come up on the agenda of this National Assembly? Is it possible that this home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not been discussing the murder of Oliver Ivanovic or has not solved the problem of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, for example, whose anniversary we are marking today, i.e. reminding ourselves that the President of the Republic of Serbia was killed, and that the murder has not yet been solved and that we do not know exactly who is behind him on the inside and especially on the outside, 15 years ago? So that's our appeal here, to stop acting as a legislative function, and that no current topic can come to the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29597	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29598	Dear People's MPs, I must say that the public debates were, in fact, four major public debates on these laws. These laws have been through a detailed review of all our work bodies of the Republic of Serbia, have been examined by the European Commission, have been considered by the NGO sector, have been through citizens through public debates and all interested public and are in parliament in a regular procedure. None of these laws have been entered here based on urgency for several months. So these aren't laws that are here for two weeks or three, so to say that pro-forming is something in regular procedure. So you've had the opportunity to consider these laws for months, as well as the rest of the public. I think we're working here without, of course, the increased work, when something needs to be done in the evening, in the regular working hours, which is, of course, the decision of the National Assembly, but I mean, as a member of the government that explains this, I can also say with breaks. We have a very normal pace of work where we can look at each of these laws. About 1,600 amendments were submitted to this law, suggesting that the largest number of MPs had enough time to prepare and to submit amendments to everything he thought should be invested. So I don't think it can be said to stand. The executive authority is setting up accounts for the National Assembly in an orderly manner. As the minister who comes to all committee meetings where the report of the MUP is being discussed, we discuss and answer all questions of the MPs, both from the government and from the opposition, each issue, on each issue. I think we have very good discussions that have led to a correction of the report. We've changed the way we report to the board. We've given a lot of good information about everything that's going on in the country. So, as far as migrants are concerned, there are no massive attacks on migrants, 3600 migrants is a rough number, but for months they've been in our country and they don't want to stay here. Their goal is to go abroad. We will see, these laws that we are adopting, what is said to be in line with EU directives, the directive is the name of a legal act, so not some commanding tone, but the directive is the name of an EU legal act, which gives instructions on how to make certain laws, and we, among other things, do it because of the higher standards that exist in those countries, but we do it because we want better standards and better protection for our citizens for our country. So it certainly can't be said that these laws are not seriously prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29599	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29600	Thank you, Chairman. The aim of the amendment itself is to make it more precise and further define the person to whom this Act on Foreigners applies. In Article 2, he has already defined the groups to which this law itself applies. However, this amendment proposed an additional group, i.e. A foreign investor. It is clear that this government and previous governments, led by current President Aleksandar Vukic, may have dealt most with this category of foreigners in our country. As proof of that, I'll just say some numbers. If you look at 2017, the amount of foreign direct investment in Serbia is somewhere at 2.6 billion dollars. Now, the comparisons for, somewhere, make up a collection of total foreign investments of four countries in the area of one territory. So in 2017, Serbia had foreign investments as much as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania and Kosovo and Metohija combined. To make one comparison with an earlier period and compare this relationship to this category that I have defined with the amendment, I will tell you, for example. 2012 In 2012, you have direct foreign investment in Serbia at $350m, seven times less than in 2017. To understand how tragic and difficult it was for Serbia, I will make comparisons with countries and territories in the environment again. In 2012, Serbia with its 350m-dollar investment, seven times less than in 2017, was somewhere on the level of Kosovo and Metohija's territory, which had about 300m dollars. At the same time, Albania has three times as many, about $970 million, Bosnia and Herzegovina 630 million, twice as much, Montenegro 610 million, and then you can imagine how devastating it is and at what level was the relationship of the authorities in that category of foreign persons that I mention in my amendment. Of course, he threatened the country at that point with bankruptcy, but probably after that, he disappeared himself. Now I can't just end up looking back at some previous presentations and in the context of this amendment of mine that I wanted to explain these categories to which the law applies, without telling you that no less percentage, no more noise, no less trouble, no more pranks, when it comes to the number of migrants in the Republic of Serbia... For the sake of the public and citizens of Serbia, to whom the opposition speaks so highly, especially under its alleged signs, there are some 3.5 thousand in Serbia today, according to the minister, exactly 3,600 migrants, more or less. A million of these people have gone through our country. You remember the announcements that Bosko Obradovic and his associates made at the time said that in Serbia we would build houses for migrants, that in Serbia we would build settlements, cities for migrants, that we would do God knows what. Of all this, we have come to the situation that today the Government of the Republic of Serbia is building houses, settlements, refugee cities with former SFRY territory, i.e. for those refugees who are already clearly defined in the first article by the Refugees Act. Minister, we are proud of everything the MUP has been doing in recent years to deal with this problem that we know you didn't cause yourself, and we are aware that neither you nor the Republic of Serbia can solve for itself. So we invite you to continue working with the others to solve this problem and keep it at the level at which it is now. Of course, all of this contributes to the security of our citizens who live constantly in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29601	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29602	Thank you, Chairman. I think it is justified to worry that the migrant announcement on Europe's territory has a number of negative consequences and I don't think we can play with the security threats that the migrant crisis has brought to Europe. I would remind the public and all of you, honourable fellow MPs, that all those who have acted terroristly throughout Europe are migrants who have passed through the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, the matter is not naive at all and it is not a joke and it is not an accident that Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban devoted the entire election campaign to the struggle to keep his policy of closing Hungarian borders for migrants. In that, believe me, he's not lonely at all in modern Europe. Poland and the Czech Republic and Slovakia agree with it, and not only the countries of the Visegrad Group, but also numerous other countries. As you know, in all the elections in Europe, this is an important and big topic, they are increasingly winning and they are gaining votes precisely on political options that warn of the dangers of the migrant crisis. So, don't play with it. Six hundred twenty thousand migrants sought asylum or expressed a desire to seek asylum in Serbia. All of them can be returned here, according to counterpart Minister Stefanovic, by an EU directive that is not a directive, but I don't know what is and I don't know what the Serbian language means by the word directive, except the order of one who rules Serbia through the colonial administration that is here in power. So, the Central Committee of Brussels. So, we believe that migrants are not our subject, that we do not need to deal with it, that we should deal with our citizens, that we should help and support our citizens, and that in this sense we should be careful not to rob ourselves of the head of the migrant crisis as a security threat number one in modern Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29603	The word has Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29604	I just have to say, we really can't say, it's really not standing, so please be careful here. Those who carried out acts of terrorism in Europe in the highest number were citizens of those countries in which these terrorist acts, some even third, fourth or fifth generations living in those countries, were carried out. So, absolutely in the largest, it's not 50%, it's 90%. Only one or two acts were committed by persons who came or participated in the migrant route, and that, I think, was only in one case the face was from Serbia. So we can't say that it's a great thing. Why do I tell you this? It's not right for people who are completely tortured by some kind of torture, not these people are terrorists. We can't even all those people who went through our country, and there's been a million and a half of them. Of that, about 650 thousand people expressed their intention to seek asylum, which they used as a sufficient reason to stay in our territory, about 72 hours the most, to leave our country and go to Western Europe. They did the same in Greece, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Hungary, and Austria, etc. So it can never be about their return to Serbia. Why would someone bring them back to Serbia and not Greece? This cannot happen to the Republic of Serbia. A total of about 650 were requested by asylum, using this right to stay in our country through the procedure. The largest number never awaited approval or refusal of asylum, left our country. So you can't talk about it. Can it be said that we have to be careful? Of course, we must be careful, that is, to serve our country's security services, which deal with the assessment of all those who come into the territory of the Republic of Serbia, their possible connection with different organisations, terrorist and all other and, of course, the international network of contacts that security services make right in the exchange of information about these persons. Be careful, yes, but not baseless fear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29605	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29606	Thank you, Chairman. I'm using the time of my authorised representative. I listened very carefully to my colleague as he explained his amendment and I noticed that, not only once, but even repeatedly compared investments in Serbia and so on to some other countries. He mentioned Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, he mentioned it to me, several times, both Kosovo and Metohija. A comparison between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. I wanted you to explain to me whether you or the previous speaker or minister – on what basis it is... I thought Kosovo and Metohija were part of Serbia, so I wanted you to explain to me where that comparison came from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29607	The word has the People's MP Milimir Vujadinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29608	I don't know how I'm getting so much concern for KIM from the parliamentary group who openly advocates the recognition of KIM independence, but well, I guess everything is allowed in order to cross the census. However, the people make a very good assessment of it and who is he who fights for KIM, who is he who fights for the state of Serbia, who is he who fights for every job in Serbia, who is he who fights for investment, then rewards someone and punishes someone. Sentence twice in less than a year. Of course, no one should be respected and framed by what he did not say, I made it clear that KIM is a territory, not a state, and it is understood that it is a territory that is part of the Republic of Serbia. So I made a comparison with the level of investment in four countries and one territory that is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. To take care of KIM, I think they speak enough of the votes they won in the last election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29609	Right on the line, Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29610	I thank the chairman. I just want to inform a colleague who just spoke and all the colleagues who can't possibly get some facts straight, so I'd like to ask you to listen a little more carefully now. I am not a member of any party, nor have I participated in any of these elections at all, nor have I, nor have I, nor my fellow Members, who are independent MPs in this parliamentary group, anyone in this election. I really don't know where you dreamed it was that I supported Kim's independence. Please tell me one word about it and explain to me how I am it, what did I get in this election when I wasn't involved in it at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29611	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29612	Mr. Arsic, you have once again injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and once again inconsistently apply this Rules of Procedure. You should decide whether the right to a replica exists only if someone is mentioned or necessary, as the Rules of Procedure say in Article 104(1) to misread exposure, to be offensively expressed and so on. There was no reason to give and give the right to the replica of Mr. Milimir Vujadinovic, is there, no. You made it possible for him, although I'm just quoting part of his discussion, nothing negative about it is said, and then you gave Mrs. Chabrai the right to replicate in replication. If you have written another article during this time, or if you have not informed the National Assembly, it may be time for you to inform us at this time, and if you have not, then you have injured the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind that it's not too controversial, that it's widely interpreted as a replica, but that attitude must always be the same and must be the same to everyone. You cannot give a replica to anyone you want or you may like or you may not be threatened by any political danger, and on the other hand, when it is much more justified and when it is absolutely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to give, you say – I do not give, the chairman decides, decides, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29613	Let me answer you, colleague Sarovic. First of all, let me remind you, I know you were in the O.R., but I don't know what you've been listening to, and maybe you haven't heard some things. counterpart Cabraja asked her to explain to her counterpart Milimir what he meant when he spoke about Kosovo and whether he advocates an independent Kosovo or a Kosovo composed of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29614	That's a rhetorical question, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29615	So he asked one question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29616	So whenever someone asks a question, the other one can answer. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29617	Please, colleague Sarovic, now I'm talking. Then, counterpart Vujadinovic said he was surprised that such concern was expressed by a MP who belonged to a parliamentary group that advocates Kosovo's independence, and thus, as a representative of the parliamentary group, was authorised, gained the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29618	How about a replica on the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29619	It'll be a replica on the replica. You haven't learned yet? The break was four years long for you, the bankruptcy manager. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bosko Obradovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29620	Thank you, Chairman. I'll ask you, of course, to calculate my time. I think I've got about three minutes left. What I want to say here, first of all, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said is one truth, I, although I am a serious opposition to the current government, must and must admit, is actually coming to the meetings of the Assembly Committees and really submits a report on my work, but it is also true that almost no other minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing so, nor does he submit a report on his work, every three months, as the Rules of Procedure states, nor does he come to assembly committees to answer the questions of the MPs, otherwise we would have such a fruitful debate as is the case now. Mr. Minister, where are our doubts? I would say that they are very justified, that at one point, by closing their borders, as Hungary did, there could be extra migrants who want to distribute, or return them to their initial positions. You say, "Why don't you take them back to Greece?" Because Greece is in the EU and we are not in the EU, so it could be a condition for us or for you to be blackmailed on Serbia's path to the EU, that we have to accept a number of migrants, that we have to become Europe's largest asylum centre, etc. etc. So, the EU has a blackmail mechanism and is using it over and over again on Serbia's path to the EU. One of these conditions, or blackmail, is for Serbia to give up its territory, i.e. KIM. So maybe part of the citizens don't understand the problems of the migrant crisis, because they're not in their midst, but citizens from, say, Subotica or Shida or Presheva or a series of other places in Serbia, where asylum centres are made, understand perfectly what I'm talking about. They know how many robberies, how many incidents there have been, how many attempted rapes, how many different problems there have been with that migrant population, and there's no reason to hide that information from the public. So we're not malicious. No man who came to Serbia has ever been expelled from Serbia. We helped everyone, and we know what a refugee is. We are the largest refugee people in Europe right now. Over a million Serbs had to leave their hearths at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. We know what this torment is, and we have rightly helped each of these people, but that does not mean that we can allow ourselves to do everything according to EU directives, to be a normal colony of Brussels, to obey their every order and thus risk the safety of Serbian citizens. So, we haven't caused wars, we're not responsible for the fate of migrants, we need to act the way he does, say, Hungary, and you swear to Hungary, in friendship with Viktor Orban, and don't do what he advises you and what he does, protects the interests of his citizens, protects the safety of his citizens, and I only appeal to that. You didn't answer me why Victor Orban was wrong, and you're right? Why does someone who is an EU member do so and you who are not a member of the EU do otherwise?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29621	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29622	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29623	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29624	I must say that it cannot happen for Serbia to impose a large number of migrants it would have to accept because there is not even a single EU position in countries, all EU countries on this issue, and of course that Serbia is sufficiently sovereign to be able to say what it can and cannot accept. We've already got one number of migrants, about 3,600, on our territory for some time now. We think it is a very correct contribution from Serbia at a time when not all EU countries have a number of migrants on their territory either. Of course, we've done it many times, I've been involved in a number of conferences and I haven't been satisfied with everyone, not all these conferences have led to some spectacular results, I'm not saying that Europe has not found a solution to this issue. No, Europe, the world hasn't found a solution to this issue yet. The migrations that exist on the world level are something that will last, certainly in the course of our lives will never be interrupted. Whether there will be greater or lower intensity is a question that we must give an answer, or what we must do together with Europe. We with the Hungarian police and some other police from EU countries are working very closely through various bilateral agreements, but also through joint projects, through former Frontex and these people, police officers, are at our borders. They help Serbia prevent illegal entry into its territory. Of course, we have to make sure that we are more prepared to respond with our police forces to any kind of increase in the attempt of illegal entry of migrants into our territory, but at the same time we need to show that understanding that some others had toward us, when it comes to people who are forcefully forced to come. We can't exactly meet them with a boot and a bat. We need to be with them normal people, who will understand the pain they are in. They certainly do not stay in Serbia, to be extremely open, to be honest. They are making every effort, even if the five received daily by Hungary, to be among those five who will enter the territory of another country and go to Western Europe. So what it is is our common question of all of us -- how to make it possible, how to get them back to those countries of origin, when it is not a voluntary return and how to find a way to invest more money there, like Europe, Serbia has no money, but I mean these richer countries, which some of them can, which they do, so that they create some chance for life there, so that these people don't. Of course, it will be a question for Europe to provide answers to what to do with economic migrants? They're not refugees, they're not faces that are threatened. As Serbia, we expect big countries to give us answers to what with economic migrants, who come because they want to live better in Western Europe. That can be said of many other parts of the world, including parts of Europe. So people who live worse would like to go to Switzerland, Germany, because that's where they live better. So we need to get clear answers from Europe on these issues, so Serbia can fit in. But I certainly want you to know that the Ministry of Interior and other state authorities are doing everything in our jurisdiction to reduce the risk to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to protect our state borders.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29625	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29626	Mr. Minister, the intention here was clear that the pro-forma was to submit an amendment, because it cannot survive in legal traffic, because you can see for yourself that a colleague had the intensification that a stranger who would be entitled under Article 2 of this law contributed, as it is said, to the defence system of our country. It's just not possible. Because if it were the foreigners treated by this law and what is Serbia's problem in front of those who have expressed their wish, I would ask you, Mr Stefanovic, I really have this information for 2016, to tell me, if you and your associates have it, how many persons in Serbia in 2017 expressed their desire to ask for asylum, and how many have they filed a request? And if you have, by country, how many of them are from Afghanistan, how many are from Syria and other countries? So, if it were possible to implement this amendment that you will not accept, what fellow Stevic is asking for, then those foreigners who would come here would demand that Serbia's defence power be established in the NATO Pact, and it would not certainly be the way Serbian citizens, but Serbian citizens, over 90, and who knows how much percent, never want us to become a member of that hostile Western military alliance. That is why the question is ahead of you, and you do not want to accept it, although the Serbian Radical Party has been performing on that political platform for years, and is asking you to make it clear that we accept membership in the ODKB, as the only safe path and supply for the future of future generations. As unacceptable as it may seem to you, it is to all the challenges that Serbia will face from NATO's pact, America and some of its Western allies, the only safe way to protect our people in KIM, to protect Serbs in the Raska area, in Vojvodina, because for all those who may not have been the document of existence back 15 years from the ODKB studied and how they function, it is clear to all that Russia with its allies is, unlike this imperialist military force that has caused us so much evil, which is the NATO Pact, through the organisation of membership of the Department of collective security, so on. The ODKB sought to prevent the spread of terrorism, especially in Central Asia, to meet all the challenges so-called. Colored revolutions. As much as you are now mired in power, in power, you must consider the dangers that can be overcome over Serbia, as many months from now, and what ultimatums will all be before us. There are colleagues among you who are political analysts, I mean members of the Serbian Progressive Party, and are more serious, such as colleagues Djukanovic, Lazanjski and others, who know very well that everything that today in the way of pressure and of its kind of political blackmail is done by America with its Western allies, but as far as it can be exposed tomorrow, and you know it very well both as a politician and as a minister in that position, as an ultimate requirement for us to do so. So, if this were possible, then we'd have the foreigners involved in our country's defence system, then I'd be the representative of the SRS and how I called all those who are friends of Serbia, and above all the Russians and all the others who are friendly with us to do so. This way, we can only appeal to you to turn to Russia as the military, political protector of our country, which has always been through history, in order to face and protect our country from any threats that will soon come to us in an ever more pronounced form.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29627	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29628	As for the 2017 data, the overall intention has been expressed by 6195 persons to seek asylum in our country. Of those 6195 people who expressed their intention, 235 were indeed seeking asylum last year. Of this, 64 people have come up with a solution to reject or reject asylum requirements for 159 persons, a solution to suspend the procedure, because they have left our country and 14 people have made a solution to the adoption of asylum requirements and subsidiary protection. So a total of 14 people were essentially given the right to receive asylum in 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29629	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29630	Thank you. Dear Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 2 although I consider the bill to be extremely well prepared and proposed here, in order to in some way give meaning to the once-proclaimed objective of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the goal of having as much better economic development and empowerment of the defence system as possible. Article 2 is otherwise referred to what this law does not apply, i.e. to which faces are not applied. I, in my amendment, wanted to be in Article 2. The proposal for a law on foreigners is added Article 3 which reads – this law applies to persons who need to help economic development and empowerment of the defence system through their business. I can see from the government's explanation that my proposal has not been accepted. All right, but the goal was to in some way strengthen that declared goal. From previous opposition speakers, we heard earlier that they prefer to continue living as in Nusic's "suspecting face" so that Serbia would like to see still surrounded by barbed wire as a ghetto. I just can't believe what I'm hearing. It's about opposition MPs, I'm going to tell the political charlatans freely, what else can I say, who have barely crossed the censorship, and then here they teach us what Serbia should look like and how we should treat foreigners. We literally don't trust anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29631	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29632	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Article 2 The proposal for a law on foreigners refers to categories of foreigners not subject to these provisions. However, because of great importance in the area of economy for Serbia's overall development, I have suggested adding a new stance with the idea that this law also applies to foreign people who will help with their business economic development and the development of the economy in general in the Republic of Serbia. Why do I think this is important? We are witnessing a growing number of foreign investors in our country and the last few days are constantly talking about the company Lidl. It will open throughout Serbia, only for starters, up to 20 stores. After that, new jobs are expected, new jobs in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Krusevec, etc., so in cities and municipalities across Serbia. They will offer their customers, in line with their business, the best possible price and quality ratio, which will cause their business to expand, and that will only be a plus for our citizens, i.e. new employment and job creation. The importance of German investment is great. It is through the adoption of appropriate legal acts that the Serbian government is working to improve the business environment in order to make foreign investors even more, i.e. to increase their number. Their arrival is important for our economy because, here, specifically through Lidla, Serbian producers will be able to export goods and place it around the world. Such investments are particularly important for the city of Nis and mean that only the result of the promised, now President Alexander Vukic, who led this government at the time, but also these governments, which is that in southern Serbia will only be invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29633	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vukojičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29634	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished ministers with co-workers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which seeks to improve the law in the sense that foreign investors can help with their investments the position of particularly vulnerable social groups. Before me spoke my distinguished colleague, Mrs Ljiljana Malusic, who presented the information that the largest Swedish furniture and kitchen equipment company, which is Ikea, came to our space in Belgrade on 10 August 2017 and hired a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that this Swedish company came in 2008, at the time of Boris Tadic's rule, but then, due to administrative barriers and corruption, they ran off with their heads regardless of what the International Monetary Fund escaped from Serbia during the time of Boris Tadic's rule in 2011. I am almost moved by the attention of certain opposition MPs regarding the protection of particularly vulnerable social groups. I must point out that during the time of the rule of the "yellow company" there was the biggest robbery of children distracted in the development and the biggest robbery involving daily stays allegedly intended for rest and recreation of children. First of all, I must point out that at the time of Bojan Pajtic's rule in Vojvodina, from children distracted in development, 157 million dinars were kidnapped, money was taken, and victims were distracted by development. "Hetherland Castle" looks like this, I'll show you the pictures. He's without a roof, in ruins, and he's grown into weeds. More of this. In Belgrade, too, there has been a large kidnapping and a large robbery of money committed by Mr. Dragan Gilas, precisely by those most vulnerable, precisely from the children's category, and later we will continue to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29635	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of richinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29636	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Stefanovic and his associates, I have proposed an amendment to Article 2 that says - In Article 2. The proposal for a law on foreigners is added Article 3, which reads: "This law applies to a foreign person who needs to help economic development and increase investments in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia". With that in mind, local self-government and the mayor of the town of Leskovac, Dr Goran Cvetanovic recognized the problems farmers face. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 127 million dinars were paid from the town register of Leskovec in the name of agricultural incentives from 2013 to 2017. Last December alone, 823 agricultural producers paid more than 18 million dinars. Also, 11 million dinars were spent in the period from 2014 to 2017 to obtaining anti-building missiles that were passed on to the shooters. Also, in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, with the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the financial participation of the resolution ministry achieved several very important projects, and the ministry participated up to 70% of the funds. First, the restoration and arrangement of the Atarian roads – this 144-place project covers over 90, the project value per three years is 62 million dinars, and a total of 167 kilometers of atar roads have been renovated. The Ministry helped the city in 2014 with 60%, in 2015 with 50% project value, in 2016 with 47% of the project value. The second project is a land-commassion project. This project covers 1,100 hectares in three settlements. The project was implemented in 2014, 2015 and 2016, and the Ministry took part with 70% of the total funds invested. The implementation of the projects was achieved with 81%. The depletion of older plantations, plantations of vines and fruit plantations, this project covers 165 hectares in three populated cities. The project is worth 29 million dinars. The ministry participated with 70%. The total area of agricultural land is successfully covered by geodetic works with 165 hectares. In 2017 there was a commission in the catastrian municipalities of Gornja Stočina and Donja Footing began on the surface of 563 hectares. The deadline for completion is June 30th, the value of 19 million dinars. Also, it's done a lot in the city of Leskovac to reduce unemployment. In the past five years, the number of unemployed has been reduced by 5,000. The new Jure factory that expands its facilities, which means about 1,200 new jobs. "Aptiv" or "Delfaj" in the green zone opens a factory where around 1,500 workers will be employed. Ginsi in the adapted building of the former Synthetics expands production where it will employ another 300 people, a total of a thousand. The "Terastil" and "VNB Knitting" factories in Grdelica were also opened, which together employ about 200 people. Of course, “Autostop interiors” and “Lesko bex” should not be forgotten from 600 jobs. All of this is possible because the city bought the property of the company Jugexpress at the price of 40 million dinars, as well as the property of the Synthetica factory for 30 million dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 195m dinars for the adaptation of Synthetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29637	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29638	Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted this amendment with a desire to put an emphasis on undeveloped areas within this member of the law, on mountainous and mountainous areas and areas they have in the future, but with investment by foreign investors, they will have a much better chance than themselves. The results of citizens' expectations have also shown in Belgrade that a large number of people supported Serbia's President, Mr. Vukic, which means that in the coming period we will continue to work in small municipalities, such as the Svrlig municipality, such as the Bela Palanka municipality, such as the Gajin Han municipality, where we want these amendments to invest investors who want to invest, to invest in small areas, to say, whoever wants to invest in agriculture has an investment of 150 000 euros, perhaps to invest in the municipality of Svrlig and the municipality of Bela Palanka or Gajin Han municipality, to ensure 10 holdings through the cooperative programme, through their partnership, to secure the purchase of cows, the purchase of goats, and thus to provide them with quality products and products, that investor can safely come out in any part of Europe and the world. A great chance for all of us is to invest in a farm with foreign investments, we'll have a chance, I'm sure, to bring back a smile to our villages. We are witnessing that a large number of villages in Serbia are shutting down, there are no people. This kind of investment aid, as foreign investors, will then have the opportunity to really provide these people with the future, to invest in goats, sheep, to provide quality milk, through the production of milk, there is cheese, there is a belmust, these are products that can be placed everywhere in any part of Europe tomorrow. Once again, I call on all fellow MPs to support this amendment of mine, because I am sure that only by investing in southeastern Serbia in mountainous and mountainous areas, in undeveloped areas along with foreign investors will we have the opportunity to secure new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29639	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29640	First of all, I apologize for the obvious lapus I had when I explained the previous amendment and when I used the word "member" instead of the word "status. I don't dispute my right to react to my colleagues, but I don't really agree with the malice comments. If it's all my fault, I accept it, but I think we all in this room know that citizens are unmistakably following our work and our reactions and are infallible in value and our results. As regards Article 2 of this Act, he defines to which the foreigners are not subject. I have submitted the amendment and on the basis of which I propose that in Article 2. The proposal for a law on foreigners is also added to Article 3 which, with the aim of further defining the persons to which the law applies, is to be amended. Also, in the previous part of the discussion, many of my colleagues commented and mentioned that foreign investors favoured Serbia and that domestic and foreign investors do not have equal rights. I wanted to point out some information for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the citizens, that the government is providing comprehensive support to the micro and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs sector, because in fact, their ideas, efforts and entrepreneurship depend on Serbia's growth and development speed. In this respect, in the first quarter of 2018, programmes were proposed to provide 750 million dinars of a grant programme for entrepreneurs of 500 million dinars of grants, and for beginners in business 250. In 2016, which was declared a year of entrepreneurship was the result of the following, there were 17 thousand new companies, new 30,000 jobs and 70% higher net profits. In 2017, the resolution ministry allocated 18.2 billion dinars of which 7.6 billion grant money and more than half a billion euros for favourable loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29641	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the urgency of the amendment is to underline the importance of respect and application of the law. So it is a process that is undoubtedly important for development in every way and on every occasion, including, of course, the problem of relations with foreigners. Of course, it's about obligations that are set up in a two-way direction. On the one hand, a potential investor should feel the security stemming from protection by law, institutions that care about ensuring that protection is provided. On the other hand, there is also a commitment for an investor who is also defined by the relevant laws. Why this is important and what situations should be pre-warned if they are potentially harmful. Well, on the one hand, when it comes to protecting someone who invests, the system needs to be established, and I'm very sure that today we have such a system, in which it's impossible to discourage a potential investor with information and news like those that were once exposed to different blackmails. For example, Miodrag Kostic spoke a few years ago about the fact that he personally warned that Dragan Djilas was putting unacceptable pressures on different companies, forcing them to practically advertise through his company, using it directly, misusing the levers of power. That's absolutely unacceptable. And on the other hand, the investor has obligations and impossible to eskicipate them so that, as an example, at the city level only on the case of city building land, escalates the investor's obligation to pay only 10% of the price at the end, and everything else is forgotten, because no guarantees, serious guarantees again at the time of Dragan Gilas. There was enough just to have a proper political relationship. To avoid these phenomena, of course, is a prerequisite for building a successful and modern society in our country, a society that we are building with success today, not a "dos palanka" as some have only been able to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29643	Thank you, colleague Orlic. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29644	In Article 2 of the bill, Article 3 of the Law adds that this law applies to all parties to the persons who are supposed to step up economic development and infrastructure development in Serbia by their business. As Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, invests in the area of infrastructure for better integration with neighbours, the best thing it says is that among the biggest and most significant projects Serbia is implementing in the area of infrastructure there is not one that is not regional. Of course, this kind of policy-making in the area of infrastructure has not remained undetected, so the existing headquarters of foreign investors who want to invest in their capital in Serbia and help the economic development of the state. The aim of the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to make our country's territory a network of Corridors well connected with its neighbours, i.e. to be the vessel of the housewives of this part of Europe, where Serbia's political leadership in this part of Europe will, above all, become an even greater number of investors, i.e. foreign persons, who will help economic development and the development of infrastructure in our country. This should be added that the arrival of foreign persons, who want to invest in our country, will increase the transport of passengers and goods, and then the much greater importance of income will be from tourism, and all in order to continue Serbia's economic rebirth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29645	Thank you, my fellow Prince. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29646	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, which I have tabled an amendment to, among other things, is said to be – in point 3 of point 1) this law does not apply to foreigners who have acquired refugee status in terms of the Refugees Act, so I would like to point out that I was ashamed of some of my fellow citizens and even fellow Members of the People's Parliaments who wanted to use the misfortune of a part of the human population to score cheap political points. I'm fed up with stories of nationalism, patriotism, how to defend the country, calling for certain accounts, and even war against people who are war as one of the most terrible experiences a man can have only seen in Rambovision or on television. I don't know what my fellow citizens, my countrymen and fellow MPs expected our state authorities to do in such a situation? When they talked about how these people should not be received in Serbia, did they have in mind that there were a large number of women and children and sick people there? Nemanja Sarovic: Where the hell? President, please let this fellow who tells everyone what to do, bring him in order not to throw me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29647	Comrade Arsic, I didn't hear the pitch. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29648	Start listening. Sarovic. He's been waiting four years to be an MP. I don't blame him for that. Now, did they expect our state authorities to prevent a large number of women and children from entering, among other things, tear gas, rifles or bats? Have them come out and say it. If they're against Serbia being supposed to take care of those faces, how can we prevent them? They forgot one very important thing, that from the Serbian state, Serbs and all citizens of Serbia in the 1990s, Serbs were trying to show themselves to the world public, and Serbian citizens, not only Serbs, that they are at the level of the original human community when their approach is to certain minorities. The original human community implies that anyone who is not a member of that same community must either be expelled or destroyed. It was at the end of the 20th century. If anyone now thinks that during the 21st century, it's over, they're wrong. Perhaps not in such a expressed form, not so publicly, but still trying in one part to make the Serbian state, the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia portray themselves as inhumane and indifferent from the same ones who pay for these articles, though, according to the newspaper and the creation of that picture, and those who finance these ducks in Belgrade, from the same ones who financed the protests here, allegedly because of some election theft in 2017, when Aleksandar Vukic was elected president of the Republic of Serbia, and for that they received money in Karadjordev's park for 15 euros for each of the protesters. They're trying to satanicize the Serbian people. Because of the approach the Republic of Serbia had, the government of the Republic of Serbia then headed by the prime minister, and now President Aleksandar Vukic, with the MUP, members of the police headed by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. This public attitude around the world has begun to increase Serbia's reputation and reputation and respect for members of the Serbian people and all Serbian citizens in the international community. I pray all of my colleagues when for cheap political reasons they attack primarily the humanity of our country and our state authorities, let them bear in mind two things: that they attack someone who has been unprotected, threatened, hit by war and let them bear in mind that they are attacking the reputation of both the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia. If they keep doing that, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29649	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29650	Dear President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, I am pleased to have you here today with a large number of your associates, which speaks of your dedicated work both according to the laws that are on the agenda today and according to this high-level parliament, in which you, Mr. Ministers, have led and chaired the pleasure of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the greatest part of the MPs in this high House. I have to say, you've brought more associates than all the Dossier forces, eight times more than any of the Dossier's former parties to this House. You immediately have eight associates, and there's only one MP from the former DOS. In Article 2. An amendment has been added, which says that this Law on Foreigners is also applied to foreign persons, who should primarily help our country's economic development with their business, and thus develop a system of education and education in the Republic of Serbia. By bringing foreign investment, we are strengthening not only our country's economic strength, multi-employment, better wages, but also the development and improvement of a dual education system that will contribute to the greater efficiency and training of our students, on the one hand. On the other hand, there will be a solid basis for continuing to study at some of our universities, or universities. Also, on the other hand, dual education has grown to wave in our country, and against which our weak opposition was primarily, and increasingly will be one of the factors for attracting foreign direct investment in our country. That is why it is good that Minister Sarcevic is rapidly developing this process together with teachers in secondary schools and that is why it is very important that the Law on Foreigners is applied to foreign persons who need to help economic development and thus develop a common system of education and education, especially dual education. Dear Vice President, we have heard here today opposers of foreign direct investment in our country. Just one sentence to say. Against foreign investment at a time when our country was on the verge of bankruptcy is really a crazy idea. Economic chauvinism and nationalism are a thing of the past. We also heard objections to the MUP from one part of representatives of some minor opposition parties. Mr. Minister, I believe that you and your associates are happy, and the citizens of Serbia, and we are all expensive MPs because in the last few years you have achieved visible results. I won't talk about it. The citizens and the MPs who follow it are very well known, but let me say that the number of criminal acts of property crime is the lowest in the last ten years. I can say a few more elements. The ministry's successes over the last ten years have been achieved in the last two, three years. For example, the number of rape crimes is down 27.5%, the murders they were talking about here, and they haven't read it down 23.5%. I can lower a series of data, but it's not time. What matters is, I end up with this, which is when it comes to migrants, you Mr. Ministers can be happy that you chaired the ministry in a country that showed the right face to the world by treating migrants. We treated migrants best in Europe. We also have a tradition, because our refugees and migrants have accepted some European countries and not only European countries as their own. Allow me, only in World War I, one sentence, that France educated 3,500 of our students, accepted them as their students and 2,500 students. We must never forget that, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for the treatment of migrants from one representative of a minor political party, I think the "door" party is called, which is known only for coming down and pressing pressure on the electoral commission through this high-pitched parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29651	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29652	Dearly-respected Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, an amendment that adds to the position that redefines the importance of Serbia's economic progress, and closely related to the improved investor status in Serbia, once again, to what is very important to point out, the importance of the MUP in Serbia's economic development, although not much is said, are numerous examples that point to this in one indirect way. The agreements that Minister Stefanovic signed with his colleague in Germany on security between the two countries, then with other EU counterparts and other countries that are powerful economic forces, show a message to their businesses in Serbia as much as they can count on support and, of course, spread their potentials and capacities. We had criticism here from those who could and had to show. From 2008 to 2012, 400,000 workers in Serbia were out of work. There was no picture of the team, and Serbia was never more in charge of the team. The child should not have opened chocolate at home in fear of Boris Tadic coming to the opening. So we went down to the DOS wine line and almost passed like that stranger who traveled with Zivkovic on the train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29653	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here's a colleague of Yokic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29654	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and your associates, I believe that those people behind foreign direct investment must find themselves in this Foreign Law. It would not be correct if they didn't find themselves and that's why I suggested attitude 3 where they must read and see that this law applies to them too. For example, the director of this German company "Continental", a man will certainly try, since he came as a stranger, although his grandmother is from Serbia, although his wife is from Novi Sad, although she is making investments where our professional young people will have a salary of 2,500 euros, a company that is present in 56 countries, he must, and he will know for sure that there is a Law on Foreigners, to try to find himself here. That is why it is very important to insert this attitude, which is attitude 3, so that otherwise all those who contribute to the development of the Republic of Serbia feel that someone is thinking about them. Now something principled, Mr. Minister or Comrade Minister. When the law is written and written, then it answers the question whether and how much does this new law change over the year? We have to answer that question, right? We need to respond to what this representative has left, this small party, as it is called, as agreed with EU legislation. Why? Because we have defined ourselves to be going to the EU, is that right? That's normal. Now I propose, in the spirit of this discussion, that the following question be answered – how much is the adoption of a new law changing additions, which make up GDP? Gross domestic product is a set of multiple additions. Does passing this law change any of these terms, and in which direction does it shrink or increase? This is one obligation, which will make the laws much better because we will try to increase at least one of these terms. What's that gonna mean? That the increase in wages and pensions, which will certainly be and in September of the month, will be even higher, so that the standard in each part of each year is getting bigger and bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29655	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29656	Thank you. I use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group, and after that, if I spend the time of the DS parliamentary group. So, by carefully following the argument that the MPs who have submitted the amendments are worthy and passionately defending, I don't know how the minister has the heart to refuse such an amendment, because as we listen, foreign investors have no place in this law and the acceptance of amendments that the MPs bear in order for foreign investors to see that we think of them is necessary in order to continue all economic development, that's the argument that I clearly hear. I don't mind foreign investors, reading Serbia's laws feel good and say -- see what these have good laws; but on the contrary. I want to support such an amendment with the hope that you won't pull it out before voting day, because what will the poor foreign investors think then, that we've been saying all day that they're the backbone and engine of Serbia's development, but they're not in this Foreign Law. We have terrible MPs who propose to be seen by them, that we also think of them as a heartless minister who rejects every amendment as an inappropriate law on the agenda and as an amendment that cannot be part of this law. There's a lot of bad news for poor foreign investors. They're not poor, they're rich foreign investors, and that's why the minister is hardhearted and not to give them into the law, highly wealthy, what do we care, is that it? Nebojsa Stefanovic: To pay. What do we do? To pay to get into the law? What you didn't say right away would be an investment. Wait, maybe some of your MPs paid the ministers... Nebojsa Stefanovic: No, no. No, no, they didn't, I don't believe it either. But anyway, we'll see how they are, we'll see what else we can see. I really want to join the support of the amendments that you explain to us that are key to Serbia's future economic development, from infrastructure, through agriculture, to everything that should be a growth in employment and which should be an increase in GDP by growing foreign direct investment. This is all good news, and if you link it all to the key amendment that many Members of Parliament are making in small changes, it means that without that amendment it will not be. If you withdraw the amendments before voting day, then I don't know what rich little investors will think. The remark is almost personal. I hear very carefully about the types of investments, the signed contracts, the loans the government gives, and I have never heard the name of Minister Goran Knezevic, and it might be nice to mention those other ministers who are also doing something. But it's just me. For many reasons, it occurred to me. I'm waiting for someone to mention what investment he's been involved in. In the day of the vote that will pass without any amendment that many MPs have submitted, hundreds and hundreds of amendments, they will leave many of us in doubt why the amendments were then submitted. It's a misunderstanding that's also a common shame. Perhaps the applicants of amendments of this kind, put a foreign investor in the foreign law, because he does not see himself anywhere, perhaps the applicants of the amendments have no doubts or inconceivables that defence, good arguments, defence of these amendments, later withdrawals, that nothing special is happening, that the strategic objective of the MP, the parliamentary group and the government is achieved. And there's my view that we're all at a loss with this kind of approach, even poor little foreign investors, who are, like, out of the law. But the thing about the joint decision to be strategically lost and the common damage is legal, I don't think it's legitimate, but it's perfectly natural to decide within the ruling coalition structure. For comments on how important foreign direct investment is and how important it is to remember the good numbers you share with us, it might be more useful to have a session with the current topic, where ministers and governments could share data with authority, that all of them benefit from it, especially people living in Serbia, because they would have verifiable data in front of them and all the ministries that worked on the development of individual sectors. There may be questions that would question some data, perhaps not, but I think it would be a shared profit. This is how we're on the same page. And I remain with my position that I will vote for amendments of this kind in the voting day if MPs do not withdraw their amendments before voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29657	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Michaelo Jokic, you can follow the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29658	If I hadn't become an MP, I wouldn't have known, I wouldn't have believed that a young, beautiful, smart woman could be maligned in such a long time and so many questions. And, you know, ma'am, it's affecting beauty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29659	Gordana Komic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29660	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, two things have not trained you. If you wish to unpunishely promote an attempt at discrimination in the National Assembly, I must inform you on my behalf and on behalf of any other woman whom you will also try to address in a demeaning manner, neither will you marry me nor will you cook me. So you don't care what I look like or if I fail or if I don't fail. Your attempt to bring down what I'm saying to my kin is about problems I've had nothing to do with, except fight for the whole century that no one has the permission to address a woman with demeaning. And you can only address any woman with disrespect if she lets you do it. You don't have my permission. Choose your words carefully, since you are bound by laws that are not only the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and every kind of verbal violence you try to bring into this dialogue, you will only send with one message – frightened people always use the dictionary of verbal violence. There's nothing to be afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29661	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29662	Thank you. By amendment, but I have to look back on this right now. I'm surprised how many women present here, or co-worker, that no one has stood up to react to this...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29663	Hey, buddy, talk to me after the amendment. Mrs. Comic was able to defend herself and say what she thought and what she wanted to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29664	I speak by amendment, of course, much more than some other colleagues. So, I don't think it's a good thing that without at least a warning, there's no sanction to go through that kind of thing, so actually, the hate speech and discriminatory speech in parliament that's usually rising... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29665	Comrade Vukadinovic, I must tell you one more time. Mrs. Comic had a chance to replicate and she did it, it belonged to her right. It's not about the hate speech, it would be sanctioned immediately. I don't think that was the intention. Please continue, if possible, according to the amendment, and Mrs. Comic will contact you safely if she wants to add anything else or say during the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29666	I understand why you want to shut up from now on, but it doesn't matter. I'll talk about the amendment, but what can I say about the amendment when the amendment actually has nothing to do with a member of the law? So it's quite clear that we, dear colleagues, are now on page two of the first item of the agenda. That law has 400 and some pages. So we're on Article 2 and the first page. The whole fama around foreign investors, it's the theme of the amendment, which is being run here all day and it's now Col. Komic tried, I'd say ironically, she's going to say in a serious way, to treat, in fact, it's inconclusive, essentially non-serious. We have the Minister of Business, the Minister of Finance. We have the opportunity and opportunity for them to come and promote the government's economic results. This is about serious laws, important laws for both security and most citizens of this country. I agree that everyone can submit amendments, but as I said, both you and I and God know that these amendments have nothing to do with this law, and it's about preventing people from the opposition, MPs from the opposition from explaining their amendments. In the morning I was called here in different ways and polite and rude, but in any case, there were words about how, well, I'm talking, and I'm saying that the opposition is silent. Well, for the sake of the public, and MPs would have to know that, I've been wasting the time of the parliamentary group, which exists, for the parliamentary group, but it's not time to discuss amendments and explain its own amendments. So far, I've seen only a few opposition colleagues who have also submitted an amendment to each member, which I don't think is good. Those who are first members are extremely formal. There is nothing to bear with them. Amendments have only been submitted so we don't have time to discuss the amendments in content. We can make it this way by tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or the summer day by noon. It is clear that this is an attempt to silence the opposition in parliament and not to discuss their amendments. This particular one, therefore, is not about any foreign investors. I, by the way, don't think they're any grace. I wouldn't close them, of course, doors and they have a way to be treated by other laws, they're not discriminated against in any way. On the contrary, I think they're privileged, but it's the other pair of sleeves now. I would not, by any means, be revolutionary or open the door wide or banish them, but it certainly is not a place for the subject and the story of whether or not foreign investments are useful under this law, as well as other laws. So these amendments are phantom amendments, pro forms to be submitted, and that's what you and I know. Perhaps someone from the opposition has suffered similar amendments at times. I'm only appealing to you, but without any illusion that you'll honor that appeal. If there is not enough hearing for another session to find a compromise, as much as the authorities and the opposition can make their amendments... My people, these are government proposals. It is logical that the opposition has more objections to the law the government is proposing than MPs to the ruling majority. That makes sense. It doesn't mean that either of the other parties can't have the ruling majority doing it, but one of you honestly said it, I take off his hat, we did it so we wouldn't listen to you, so you wouldn't be able to talk. Do you agree between yourselves, dear colleagues, did you submit these amendments because you want to facilitate the life and work of foreign investors and their stay in Serbia, or do you tolerate them because of the pro-forms that the opposition amendments could not come and debate? That's the point. He can't do both. Thank you. As far as these foreign investors, poor or rich, small investors, don't need to worry about them, they have enough space in some other laws, in some other regulations of this government, are wide open doors. Sometimes they use it for good, sometimes for harm's sake, but, I say, it belongs to another topic, another debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29667	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Marković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29668	Thank you, Chairman. Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. So, I don't know if you've listened very carefully to the previous speaker who has repeatedly characterised the amendments and the entire debate today on amendments as phantom. He keeps insisting that these are phantom amendments. Now I ask - what do phantom amendments mean? Is that an insult to the National Assembly? Is that an insult to all the MPs who have submitted these amendments? What does a phantom amendment mean? It is said by an MP who has never come to the vote, who has never attended the vote before, and he is convinced that we will withdraw these amendments. Now I ask – why are you sure that we will withdraw these amendments, on what basis are you sure about that? So, I think you should at least give him a warning about what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29669	Thank you, colleague Markovic. On several occasions, a colleague, Vukadinovic, mentioned that the opposition was oppressed. Of course, I don't have the right to go into any kind of duel or to answer, but there are just five of them there now and I can understand that kind of frustration, because most of them have a lot and a lot of MPs are reporting to talk. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29670	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to say something and let's touch the amendments a little bit and the way they stand. It is absolutely legitimately the right of the opposition, it is everywhere in parliamentary practice so that it has some kind of parliamentary obstruction, which bears thousands of amendments. If we're talking about phantom or already some kind of amendment right now, you're certainly not going to tell me that there were meaningful amendments with "expect," or changing the decimal point, and point etc. It's the right of the opposition to have that kind of obstruction, but don't defend the power to defend itself. It's our right to also endure thousands of amendments. Now, someone says we'd disable the opposition. It's not. We want, say, to have that opportunity to say what we think about some law and to prevent that kind of obstruction from happening. Excuse me, we're doing this so the citizens know, based on the Rules of Procedures they've brought in, in their time, the Rules of Procedure has been brought in. I don't understand why they object to what they otherwise prepared for all of us here. Therefore, just as they have the right to obstruction, so the government has the right to defend itself. We want to have this number of amendments so that we can say why the legal proposal might be good or that we can even possibly fix it eventually to show that we're really working. For each of these amendments, certain efforts have been made and I will support some of them and I will be sorry if they withdraw. I hope he doesn't back down. Far more meaningful than those who were “wipes, dots, commas, and so forth. ” So if we're talking about the meaning of the amendment and we're talking about what's phantom, they might want to look at what they've been doing first, and then they can only preach to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29671	The word is made by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29672	Thank you. Article 104. - wrong interpretation. Of course anyone can handle the amendments. That's why I said I was appealing to most of them, and I was also telling my opposition colleagues who did it, that we could try somewhere, if we wanted this assembly to work and not make it go away. Believe me, if she works and works at all, I stress this, that compromise will have to be in the next period somewhere. I just wanted to draw attention that you couldn't know that, and neither could your colleague. The previous speaker made a material lie that I was not present with the votes. I was thinking of someone else, but I'm one of the few representatives of the opposition attending the vote. That's what most of you know. I'm often the only one, and sometimes I piss off the chair waiting to see if I'm abstention or against it. So, all of you here in the O.R. know that I'm one of the most regular and few at the vote itself, so in that sense you accidentally hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29673	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Mirko Krlić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29674	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, it's amazing that we've been listening to the same story since this morning, and that's the feature of the amendment proposed by the position. A member of the SNS Group. We get this criticism from those who have invented a copy of the page of the amendment, those who have projected here "is deleted" with the same explanation and do not give up in two calls. I simply ask myself - then where is the purpose of parliamentaryism when today when something comes to your head you do not understand as part of your projection and your policy? There have been amendments here, and all your amendments today have only one meaning. It is to take advantage of the media space provided by RTS and to get the Serbian and Serbian governments through the mud, as well as to get some new medals. That's the whole point of the policy you're conducting here. This is where I heard a man claiming to be a political analyst, how the Belgrade elections had nothing to do with this parliament. Gentlemen, I expected that at least after the Belgrade elections you would gather together and realize that the entire opposition in the Republic Parliament has no censorship or 3%, complete. None of you in this town has passed, and it has not passed in that part of Serbia that you said was your Serbia, that it is a civil Serbia, that it is a democratic Serbia. While we are being voted by rural Serbia, this Serbia is voting for you. Where is this Serbia if it is not the largest city in Serbia? What did the election say? The boom in Belgrade has turned into a coup, a pure democratic diarrhoea. That's what you got in Belgrade, from that Belgrade you claimed to exist in. You should all put together a picture of Alexander Vukic in your offices, because if he hadn't done state affairs and hadn't put the state above the party, if he had listened to Mr Stefanovic, then he would have called the republican elections, you would have watched this room on TV alone, you would never have sat here. Do you have one argument against this, do you have anything to say, are you aware that you have to change politics, that you have to change yourself? You can't go with this story anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29675	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29676	I'm looking for a replica because I've been called directly. So, just a replica. Yeah, they don't have a Belgrade election to do with this, and I don't particularly feel called in that aspect when it comes to who brought the Rules of Procedure, who gets hit on the head. You're confused with someone else. When it comes to the Belgrade elections, when you keep mentioning and returning the topic of Belgrade elections, I must tell you that I would not be too proud, not by result, but by the way that result is achieved. I didn't want to talk about it, but when you keep calling me so many times, I have to tell you, there's been a lot of it, it's not just phantom amendments, phantom voters in those elections. I wouldn't be proud. In the end, the group, the political group that I support and which is close to what I support, won 19% of the vote in those elections, so it is not true that no one has two or three percent and has not crossed the censorship. So, it's a special subject, schedule a session or schedule a special listening session, and then let's talk about it. Yes, it is true that some colleagues in power see this congregation as only a place of impact on the opposition. It's not good, like it's not good the other way around. My interventions are going in the direction of agreement and compromise, if possible, if you are not going to have an opposition in parliament or one of these, and then you will enjoy yourself and then no one will bother you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29677	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29678	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104, and I'm asking for that voice injury. Namely, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that you have a high degree of tolerance, especially when you have it for members of the national minority, but for the replica, some other conditions must be met. So it's up to you to decide that, but only when the previous two positions meet the conditions for you to decide, that someone's name and last name, function, political party, etc. None of that happened. It is that he changed parties, he no longer knows which party he is. At the question of Mr Martinovic – whom he represents, he says - I represent myself. So there's no political party that we can mention here, because he doesn't have one. His name and last name were also not mentioned, but you allowed him to have a two-minute reward, and he's known to love awards. He did not participate in gambling, but he often won the lottery with Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29679	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29680	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107, of course, dignity, was severely injured. The speaker earlier said something that he was either going to jail for or whoever said it was responsible for something like that. Namely, he said there were phantom voters in the previous Belgrade elections and that is a serious accusation. In doing so, of course, he forgot to say that there were fewer voters in the current Belgrade elections than last year, it seems to me, in Belgrade's presidency. The only thing we have really, really less is 130,000 votes they have less because the Belgraders don't trust them. This is a terrible accusation because someone is trying to say that these elections were won in some magical, criminal way, so they even told us in time that there are around 10,000 new voters in every municipality in Belgrade. So, we're the whole Kragujevac, when you add it up, we've transferred it to Belgrade to vote. You know, the only increase in the number of voters in Belgrade was in 2008 and that was a significant increase in the number of voters. At the time, I didn't notice any of them saying they were phantom voters. Today, when we have even fewer voters than last year, they still can't live with the fact that the people somehow won't. By the way, the only person who dragged voters was the one who dragged them on their list, because Mr. Borko Stefanovic, I don't know when he became a Belgradeer from Novosadjan, so he was their fifth on the list. Anyway, I'd like to ask you to respond to this in the future, because these are scandalous accusations that either go to jail for doing something like that, or go to jail for something like this, of course, alarming the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29681	Thank you, fellow Djukanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, pal Jolovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29682	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, it is precisely and precisely defined which persons this bill refers to. Only persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia who appear as investors, i.e. Foreign persons who need to help with their business development and better access to financial resources are covered by benefits in terms of faster obtaining the necessary personal documents, and as the current subject of the migrant crisis is today, and the Republic of Serbia, the normal and human state, which wants to give hospitality to all, this amendment is indeed beyond the need. It emphasises the target group to which the benefits concern, and how vulnerable groups should be fully respected, and also to allow favourable conditions for investment without discrimination, these amendments accurately prescribe the conditions that a foreign investor should meet in order to deserve the provisions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29683	Thank you, colleague Jolovic. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29684	Poor foreign investors are a completely different category of poor small investors before October 5th, which for small, small money they didn't have bought our future. One national economy lives on investors. Whether they are foreign or domestic, Serbia clearly shows that there is no difference. When we talk about foreign investors today, over the past two or three years we talked about domestic investors and when you see GDP growth, employment rates and inflation levels, then you realize that investments, or investors, whether domestic or foreign, are there, are in Serbia. These foreign investors who come to Serbia come at a foreign investment rate of 3.8, 5.5, 5.6, 6.6%, every year when you see growth it's a trend. When they come, they mostly come into industrial branches that are export-oriented, 36.37% if you look year by year. So when a domestic investor invests in Serbia, a small enterprise when it works and operates by a foreign investor who comes does not endanger the segment of the domestic market. He remains alone to function with domestic competition. Foreign investors, the trend shows, have mostly come from the Asian-Pacific region, from Asia Minor, and come from European countries as usual. This trend is best seen in export growth and import growth, Mrs Comic. If these two things are unrelated and if the SNS is not seeking an increase because of export growth, better subsidies for foreign and domestic investors, then we do not understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29685	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29686	Thank you. Of course we don't understand each other. Our misunderstanding is banal, but deep as a break-in, impregnable. We don't understand each other because you're submitting an amendment that requires special conditions for foreign investors. You consider this already good development in the economy, employment growth, GDP growth, raising general well-being. You say that this amendment is necessary, the government rejects it. I want to vote for the amendment and you explain to me what? Of course our misunderstanding is banal, but it is insurmountable because there are things you can play with in parliament. You can do with anything, that's the question, how can I say, attitude. You can remember everything about the game and the deal and the play and something, you can, of course, but that will that you can bring everything into play in no way affects the obligation of some who say – it is not done. That's all I'm commenting on. Let growth and production, let GDP grow, let employment fall, let it all fall. We are MPs here who listen and I listen to you. You say - anything is possible if we adopt this amendment. The government refuses that amendment. What do you expect from me? Play with you like that? It's your right, I don't threaten you with that right. I'm just saying, don't withdraw the amendment, so let's all vote for it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29687	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29688	Just to remove one species, it seems to me, a misunderstanding that appears in parliament, which is that the government is against the solutions provided for in this amendment. So we're not essentially saying that these solutions as solutions are bad, we're just saying that the solutions contained in these amendments have to be implemented through several different laws, only one part of them are affected by this law that we're discussing today, but through a set of economic laws that the government already had in mind, some of them have already been resolved, some of which may be able to further improve. That is the only essential reason why the government said it did not accept the amendments the MPs submitted. So these amendments have the essence with which the government agrees, but their form is what it is, we think as the Government that there are other ways that we can implement them more effectively in our legal system, and that doesn't necessarily mean that the government had the best possible solution, that will be assessed by the National Assembly in the voting day. I certainly want to tell you that what is foreseen by these legislative amendments, these amendments submitted by the MPs, or by most MPs, are envisaged solutions that essentially support government policies. And thank you for noticing the government's commitment and for trying to find those solutions that would, in fact, make it easier for investors to come, but we're just saying that technically and formally there's a different way for these solutions to be implemented, not necessarily different, just because we think that there's a better way to do it. In any case, the National Assembly will decide in voting day how it wants this law to look and everyone will have to respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29689	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29690	We have listened to countless times, to infinity, that the only condition for man to be an investor is to meet the conditions of obtaining citizenship, or the need for documentation in the Republic of Serbia. We listened to something similar a few years ago, when financial expert Mladjan Dinkic, I remind you, spoke here – we need to lift all restrictions on foreign capital entry, no matter what the nature of that capital is, it is important that that capital is invested in our country. The fact that someone is objecting, as he said, that it's dirty capital, the capital that came from drug trafficking or whatever, that doesn't have to interest us, we're a poor country, we have to get this society out of the crisis. And what happened? It gathered "with stakes and ropes", similar to Mladjan Dinkic, criminals from all over the world, as proletaries who used to join, all the countries, came to Serbia and what little remains had been ruined, got money from the finance ministry whose head was the criminal Dinkic and disappeared untraceable. Now again, this euphoricism, not the same but similar -- it's important that he's a stranger and wants to invest money here. And then it goes so far as to explain on the basis of investments that an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen who listens here, simply can't believe he lives in Serbia and so modestly, not to say poorly living, and so many interested investors and so much Serbia in the mood to meet them. You're not saying, gentlemen, in your argument, that the labour force engaged as the cheapest labour force on average has 23,000 dinars of income. Of the 23 grand on average, have you thought, gentlemen, how will you fund those who have already acquired the right to retire use that right and those who have yet to gain that right? Those who need to gain that right have a much higher average than the average income for these foreign investors. Have you considered, gentlemen, what the structure of this so-called. Exports that you boast on all your mouths? Well, BMWs produce here, and then they produce parts, and they install parts into their cars, their finished products, and you run into the export structure. It is formal exports, but when you look at where the essential gain is, you'll come up with a completely different calculation. Don't let as we've come to our senses, so our head still hurts today when it comes to capital, when it comes to investment, don't let us get into such a situation. As for these large companies that have opened the plants in Serbia, and they are working on the configuration of cables for the automotive industry, I will tell you, and you well know that, the whole capital that they have introduced, these are moving weights and one structure on which these cables that work pair these cables, they pack and that is the essence of the whole work. The threads were invested in halls, they didn't invest in buildings, they were all paid without a dinar fee, and they're literally in a situation where they spend all the money they got on their benefits, they pick up their counters, they finish the job. So what do we do? Those halls remain empty. If you had offered somewhere in the industrial zones, that you said – here, it does not work for us in Novi Sad "27. March", we don't work "Novkabel", "Novomont", here's your drives, here's your infrastructure, no, but they're making new objects in orans in the middle of fertile hurricanes in Vojvodina, and then these plants are used to make products. It's the lowest productive work that can be done, don't hug you like that. Tomorrow you might be in a position to be a little ashamed of what you're representing. We don't, we Serbian radicals, don't mind praising the good moves of your government, including those that are less good, but don't insist on putting pressure on us from the opposition and the public in Serbia, that the public doesn't know anything. You will see, in all balance sheets, imports continue to grow, and exports continue to fall, especially when it comes to export structure. You'd better have a little bit of understanding, and for what it tells you as a remark, the opposition, don't be so arrogant. You, who are proud and boastful of the results from Belgrade, are not responsible for your results for the SNS, nor any party, but have put the name of Alexander Vukic, and I will watch you gentlemen, when the cars go downhill, among you I already recognize those who will turn their backs on him. Once a traitor, always a traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29691	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29692	I have to tell you, this is where the question is asked - and what is the alternative? We had an alternative not to call foreign investors. That's what we tried. It was in our history of these attempts, and we saw how it went with the Ironworks case. There were no foreign investors, these people had to shut down one stove, put the other one on a quiet walk, ready to shut it down. They were ready to shut it down, and 5500 families in Smederev literally shook to fear of what they would live on. We tried that and we saw how people went through, how insecure it was in Serbia. Then a foreign investor showed up and 5500 families today have something to look forward to. That kind of family, 170,000 in the last three and a half years, is looking forward to it in the morning because they're getting paid that month. They look forward to going to work, and they didn't work, they were unemployed. I was at the Mita factory myself. I was passing the Obrenovac, I went to some emergency session, and I went with the president of the county through the factory. It's a brand-new factory. Raised on ice, people with an average salary of 55,000 dinars. The first phase with 800 or 850 workers finished, now they're building a new phase, somewhere in total I think 2,500 workers are scheduled to work in Obrenovac. Soon they won't have enough workforce from Obrenovac. Average salary 55,000, real turbo chargers for BMW and Mercedes, clean exports. What's the alternative? Should we let Bulgaria, Macedonia, Romania do that? Well, it's best that we don't pretend that there's leftover that backwater in Obrenovac and that these people are doing nothing. I think it's better that we bring them in, I think it's much better to work. I also saw in Surčina's factory, I was with a good host of businessmen, who makes "Kentaki Fry Chiken" a complete production of chickens. Ten thousand chickens a day. He personally invested equipment about 500, 600,000 euros and bought a man equipment to process it. It's working perfectly. People work, happy, it increases their production. So, what I'm saying is, investors have to attract, and we've evened both domestic and foreign. If he wants a domestic investor to build a factory with two, three, five thousand jobs, absolutely the same subsidies, the same incentives, everything he needs, the same tax exemption, except it's very difficult for domestic investors, I understand that, after all these years, who have been actually trampled, it's hard for them to be competitive with BMWs today, very hard, but we need both. This is the first phase in which we also make domestic companies strong, I hope that, in some foreseeable time, a domestic company that can mate to these large companies, even regionally. I really think the government's decision to help the arrival of foreign investors has helped a large part of the people in this country live easier. Does he live ideally? Do they live beautifully? Is that all great? No, but better than zero. They had zero. So many receipts were when they looked at their monthly account, zero dinars. It's hard to live with zero dinars. One hundred and seventy thousand families today have more than that zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29693	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, and Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinkovic, I'll be wasting my time with the MPs' group. My colleague from the SRS Group has, I think, spoken angryly about the government's policy and the way we in the SNS explain the amendments, which affirm government policy in the area of investment. I don't think the situation is as far as he presented it. First of all, who made the calculation that the average salary in these companies was 23,000 dinars and which company left Serbia? I haven't heard of any. So, according to the economy ministry statistics, every investment, or any state aid, as it is said in official legal terminology in Serbia, because we have the State Aid Act, we have the State Aid Control Regulation, so state aid in each individual case turned out to be profitable after 14 months. Tell me, which company took these halls and left Serbia after 14 months, as you say. I haven't heard of any. It is not true that production in Serbia, when it comes to foreign investment, only comes down to the investor making a hall connecting some wires and cables. I guess you're a living witness. It was in the city where you live. A few days ago, the Continental Science and Technology Centre opened in Novi Sad, which will employ 500 engineers, top IT experts, where salaries will be between two and two and a half thousand euros. Furthermore, according to the National Bank of Serbia, I am saying this because I want to separate the mantra repeated by some opposition MPs, as some speculators who connect wires, cables, workers wear diapers at work and during working hours come to us, that is not so. So according to the National Bank of Serbia's 2017 balance of payments, exports of software services amounted to 899m euros, up from 21% compared to 2016. The 426m-euro trade balance best says that investments in Serbia cannot be reduced to this banalisation of Serbian workers joining wires and cables. So, and how the sophisticated industry is developing, IT industry. What we will have a problem with, what the Serbian Government is, while Alexander Vukic, led it a few years ago, took a good look, here, now in 2018 it turns out to be quite true, it is that we will not have enough of the workforce with medium professional training. We're already missing locksmiths, welders and some other professions. So people want to work, companies want to give them a job, but we have a problem with an insufficient number of workers. We don't have enough labour to cover those investments. Secondly, one problem is much greater, it also concerns the workforce, but these educated labour forces – we are already missing about 30,000 IT experts, so engineers, people who deal with programming, who understand modern computer technology. For this reason, reforms in the education system, especially reforms in higher education, are something Serbia needs today. One more thing I must stress, as Minister Stefanovic said – and what is an alternative to what we do? It is impossible that Serbia is the only country in the world that has introduced the state aid system. This is what all European countries have. Today there's a game on the world market, a real fight is being fought for every investment, for every new job, the whole world struggles to attract as much investment as possible. You think the state aid laws we have in Serbia don't have all the countries of Europe, especially countries that have entered the European Union since 2004? Of course they do. All fighting for investors, all fighting for new jobs, from Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary. Why would we be the exception? The largest part of Serbia's production in the realisation of companies that came from the west is placed right on the Western market. So, French companies, Italian, German companies that come to Serbia, place their products right on the European Union market. Thanks to the smart investment policy, we have managed to significantly reduce our trade imbalances with the countries of the European Union. No government has ever gone hand in hand before, no government until 2012. About how successful the policy is when it comes to the investments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also the fact that more than 40% of foreign investment in all Western Balkan countries is falling to Serbia. You think the Slovenians are not fighting for foreign investments, that Croats are not fighting for foreign investments, that Macedonians, Bulgarians and others are not fighting for foreign investments? Of course they're fighting. But 40% of all foreign investment in the Western Balkans came to Serbia. Well, where would all these people from Subotica, Obrenovac, Ruma, Nisha, Krugnja, etc. work if there hadn't been these investments in the last four years? Who would pay them? You say - the salary is 23 thousand dinars. First of all, I don't think the information is correct. Second, and if you did, do you know what my initial salary was when I graduated law school? Six thousand dinars. And, look, I'm alive, I started a family. So you can work in Serbia, you can live off the salary you earn in Serbia. Are those enormously high wages? Well, they're not. If we were to be completely honest, were there anything enormously high and the salaries of the MPs and ministers in the Serbian government? Well, they're not. But they are wages that can be lived on, from which these people can support their family members. What you forgot to say is, it's a vast majority of these companies pay their workers travel expenses, pay what used to be called a warm meal, these people have very decent monks, a very decent diet, almost free, and I haven't heard anyone complain a lot, and he's employed in some companies that have been created in Serbia since 2013/2014. years, then on over here. I want to ask all of you, who are the great advocates of co-operation, especially economically with Russia and China, who forbids you from bringing into Serbia a Russian or Chinese investor. I can say freely, let Minister Stefanovic correct me if I am wrong, he is a member of the government, I am not, I am an MP, but 99.9% of all investments in Serbia and German and Italian and French and Russian and Chinese, Alexander Vukic himself brought. Now I ask you, the great Russianfiles, the great opponents of the EU, the great opponents of the NATO Pact – which investor from Russia or China, or from India, or Brazil, or from any other country, are you allegedly friendly with? You didn't bring any, or at least I didn't hear about that company. Yesterday, the president of China sent a letter to President Alexander Vukic, in whom he apostrophe was a great friend of the People's Republic of China. Today, Aleksandar Vucic spoke with representatives of the "Ci Jin Majning Group" who is interested in a strategic partnership with the Mining-Topier Based Bor. It is a Chinese company, the second largest in China when it comes to copper ore production, and the third largest in China when it comes to zinc production. Well, why hasn't one of you met with them? Why didn't one of you bring a Chinese or Russian investor to hire workers in Serbia? Because that's not what you're really interested in. You're just talking about Russia, you're just talking about China, but you're not doing anything. Unlike you, we are working specifically, and you remind me of those Bolsheviks of ours, those of our 1948 Serbs and Montenegrins who talked about how in Russia, or in the Soviet Union, corn clips grew from one, one, and a half meters, and they were never in Russia. They didn't see Russia. So the situation with foreign investors is much better than it represents and what I also want to point out is that you have to distinguish foreign investment as capital from the company, i.e. enterprises operating in Serbia. No foreign company can operate in Serbia. Each foreign investor had to build a company in Serbia, register it at the Business Registers Agency, report every employee to the National Employment Service, with the PIO's competent funds, pay them salaries here, benefits for pension and health insurance and what is very important in Serbia to pay all taxpayers, taxes and all other taxes prescribed by the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So you have to distinguish investments as capital from the company. All companies from the legal order of the Serbian Serb firm, because they are registered in Serbia, pay salaries in Serbia and pay taxes in Serbia. That is why we SNS MPs through these amendments are trying to affirm and praise the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy that has made a lot of efforts to increase GDP, to speed up Serbia's economic development, to have a dramatically reduced unemployment rate. Just to remind you in April 2012 we had an unemployment rate of 25.5% in the third quarter of 2017 12.9%. Thus, a significantly reduced unemployment rate. All those who wonder why SNS MPs submit these amendments, for one simple reason, because we want to show what our policy is and what policy we stand for. In Serbia, there is a principle of power-sharing. The executive government is doing its job. The legislative authority is doing its job. The Executive Authority's task is to give an opinion on amendments submitted by the MPs, and it is up to the MPs to submit these amendments. As the Parliament will declare itself in voting day, we will see, but through the amendments we are trying to explain to the citizens of Serbia what our policy is and that there is no strong Serbia, nor in military or security terms, if we do not have a strong and strong economy and if we do not have a new job opened every day. The fight for new jobs is a fight for stronger and stronger Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29695	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Milorad Mircic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29696	There is no entrenchedness here, this is about rationality when discussing such topics, and the fundamental difference is how much anyone sees, when it comes to the development of the economy, and how the economy needs to be developed. We have nothing against investors or we share them in such and such, but the minister gave good creamworth and has repeatedly cited the example of Smederev. Well, we Serbian radicals insist that as many Chinese investments as possible, investments from Russia come to Serbia. These are investments that do not require donations, do not require additional allocations when it comes to the republican budget. It's clear to everyone. Unfortunately, those who should have done so have not made much of a shift when it comes to Russian capital. You know that the biggest investment in Gazprom is NIS. It's Russian capital. Out of the big losers, like NIS was now made a company that generates the biggest net income. But what's the point of seeing, gentlemen. Not to mention technology, my colleague obviously didn't understand my objections, but here, I want to help, when it comes to confecting those cables, as you say, wire. The wires are something else, and the cables are isolated wires. They're called auto divers. They're made from special masses, the insulation is done, which are fuel-resistant, oil-resistant, to temperature. These car conductors produce Jagodina cable factory and Novosada cable factory – NOVABEL. There is no such production, but the finished product is transported to Serbia, which is produced in the east or I don't know where, and then the advantage of cheap labour is used. That's the point. And in looking at the situation in which Serbia can be found, we radicals always have caution. The fact that you gentlemen are mingling in from the West with ratings on certain credit lists will take you just as long as you don't meet the first request that Americans put before you. You will see that you will have investments if you oppose this request from America to recognise Kosovo and Metohija, or to make peace with the chair that Kosovo and Metohija will have in the UN. Try to fight back, and you'll see how you'll do when it comes to investment, when it comes to loans, and when it comes to the economic environment that encourages investment in Western capital. You know all this well, but you're like an owl, head in the sand, you don't care. It won't take long. Unfortunately, they are already announcing the arrival of their special representatives who will put the ultimatum in front of Serbia, so let's see if the gentlemen of BMW, BOSH and others will stay in Serbia, and Serbia opposes EU requirements, i.e. Germany and America. No, gentlemen, turn to the Russian Federation. There's huge potential. Only in the food processing industry is huge capital. So, what do you advise us to do? You advise us that the future and perspective, in its current state, in the west, in Germany, and that Germany is turning towards the Russian market. Well, who's confused here, not to say the other thing? You can't go on forever playing that card so we don't have the labor force. The number of employees, or unemployed, depends on the number of people leaving this country. Don't forget, gentlemen, statistics are inexorable when it comes to young people leaving this country because they can't get a job here. Don't fool us with such information that serves you just to distract the public, to tell the public – well, you know, there's a much higher standard than you have in your pocket money. It's not statistics, it's money in the name of the profits in the pockets of the citizens. Explain to them that the average is much higher than you say. We have experience, and you dear colleagues are witnesses, too, in 2000. In the years when that "buldozer revolution" came, you remember that leader and bulldozer of the revolution, here's Meko Omerovic knows best, he came with the revolution for the first time into parliament, remember when Zoran Djindjic said that we would lack labour, that we would import labour from Romania, Bulgaria, from the surrounding states, and we Serbian worked only then said that a gang of criminals, whose head is the biggest criminal, who is tasked with destroying Serbia, came to power. Now we're not telling you individually that you're criminals, but don't put yourself on that side, it's not grateful at all. Time will show who's right, and you can make it by tomorrow with your stats that don't mean anything to an ordinary citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29697	Thank you. Alexander Martinovic... And according to the Rules of Procedure, I haven't seen you. Here you go. Natasha Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29698	Mr Marinkovic, I expected you to stop, or at least warn Mr Martinovic that we were not in Russia, we were not in China, we did not see... Mr. Martinovic, since we remembered your beginnings, and you are much younger than I am, at a time when you were probably a schoolboy, I lived in the West, traveled most of this planet and I know very well, as most Serbian citizens, especially SRS MPs, to make a difference between economic policy towards Serbia and politics at all, Russia, China and friendly countries and those you talk about. And that you're underprivileged shows, since you said so, and the fact that you forgot that as a member of the SRS you supported our colleague Srđa Komazec, who as president of the Municipality of Stara Paz, first made one of the industrial parks and didn't watch which company, but to open jobs for his fellow citizens. How well we know and how much we promote politics that Russian, Chinese and other investors from countries that have and how kindly we treat our country do so everywhere and in every place. You have forgotten that we are MPs who and how we participate in the work of both parliamentary and other delegations, and how we are in a situation to prevent all that is fatal for Serbia. So remember, just two years ago, the SRS, appealing, prevented Esmark from buying a brownish Iron, and the Chinese came and saved our people and the citizens of Smederev, we are witnessing and thanks to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29699	In accordance with Article 103, I have to take these two minutes away from you from the time of the parliamentary group, because you directly replicated your colleagues to Aleksandr Martinovic. Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply, but of course, Milorad Mircic. Or are you going to pick up the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29700	Thank you. Whether these auto-conductors, as Mr. Mircic says, are insulated, for automotive purposes, I am a lawyer, and Mr. Mircic is a technologist, and it is better understood whether these cables connect and products in Serbia "Johnson Electric", "Svarovski", "Continental", "Bos", "Ikea", "Beneton", "Calcedonija", "Golden Lady", etc. And I can list you 50 other companies that have nothing to do with those cables of yours, with the car industry or anything like that. I understand that you are trying to undermine every effort by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to create new jobs in Serbia, but don't lose sight of the fact that you and we, with a very clear policy, went to Serbia's citizens, so if you want to see the citizens of Belgrade, however much you all are now working together to minimize SNS' success in the Belgrade elections, and Belgrade is a city of over 2,000 people. The largest number of voters in Serbia is concentrated in the city of Belgrade and the election results for the city of Belgrade are a very good picture of the mood and the vast majority of Serbian citizens. So the citizens of Belgrade, including the citizens of Serbia, said in 2016 what kind of policy they wanted. Don't explain how they live. They live hard, but they see there's a man, there's a government, there's people fighting to get Serbia out of the mud. What about the Serbian economy, if not for these investors, regardless of which meridians and not opening their factories in Serbia. Where would all these people work, from Subotica, Bujanovac, Nis, Leskovci, Ludi from Krupej, Valjev, Zaječar, where would they work? I'd like Mr. Mircic as much as you do if the Jagodina cable factory, former Svetozarev, hadn't grown into weeds, but it did heal. I wish Novacabel wasn't a loser, but it is. What are we supposed to do now? Those who ruled Serbia from 2000 to 2012 also managed to destroy a cable factory in Jagodina "Novkabel" and hundreds of factories in Serbia. What could we have done? We could offer state aid to investors, both domestic and foreign, and create new jobs, and that's what we do. As for this political part of your exposure, I may be wrong, but I have the impression that you seem to be looking forward when someone exposes the ultimatums in Serbia and now you're asking us, and what happens if one, two or three ultimatum is delivered one day? You know what, these ultimatums aren't being delivered to you. These ultimatums are being delivered to Alexander Vukic, and believe me, Alexander Vukic knows much better than you do what these documents say and what policy in such a situation should be conducted. Aleksandar Vukic went to KIM to talk to the people living in KIM, days after Oliver Ivanovic was killed. Which one of you big KIM defenders did? It's nobody. You're going to defend KIM? You, with a party that won 90 votes in Belgrade more than Ljubisa Preletevic Beli? Don't be ridiculous. What hurts you all is whether you want to admit it or not, we are not the target of SNS MPs, Marko Atlagic, Vladimir Orlic, Djukanovic, Risticevic, me or anyone. I can tell from your presentation what the problem is, that Alexander Vukic, as his president, is experienced by all Serbs in both Serbia and Republika Srpska, and in Montenegro and Serbs who have remained to live in our southern Serbian province of KIM. If anyone can cope with all these ultimatums, as you say, with all these blackmails, then only a man trusted by Serbian citizens can. He cannot go to Zagreb and talk to Croatian representatives and go to Kordun the next day a man who does not have in Serbia half the support of most Serbian citizens. Only one man can do it, whether you like it or not, Alexander Wolfie. All these investments that I've listed to you, whether you laugh or not, underestimate it or not, all these investments were brought by Alexander Vukic, or those investors came because they believed in Alexander Vukic's politics, because no one lied to them because no one was recalibrating them, because no one took any fees. The comparison of this government and the policy we run with Mladjan Dinkic's policy is completely declassified. We have not made a single privatisation, and the budget is more full than it has ever been in recent Serbian history, without a single privatisation done. No government since 1990, so before that, it didn't go hand in hand. My question remains. All of you who are the great advocates of the policy of co-operation with Russia and China, which I welcome, tell me on the cheek of which of you, the word any Russian or Chinese investor has come to Serbia? I haven't heard of any, but I heard and all of Serbia knows that Zelizara Smederevo was saved and that in her, the Chinese invested their capital thanks to Alexander Vukic, and I know that every Chinese, every Turkish, every French, German, Italian, any investment in Serbia was made thanks to the fact that people believe Alexander Vukic, and I don't mind bringing along any of these investors that we have brought or brought by the Government of Serbia, or Alexander Vukic, and you bring someone. One job, one job, but we helped one man in Serbia, but you didn't bring any. Unlike those of you who keep talking, we do and the figures show it and, more importantly, the citizens of Serbia understand well, although they still have difficulty living, the policy led by the SNS. They also showed that in the Belgrade elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29701	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29702	We just want to warn you that the technological dependence in which Serbia is located is much more dangerous than all these political pressures. The dependence on imports is increasing and increasing, and this is a major threat. Whether you understand it in one way or another, it is a matter of your understanding and your relationship with Serbia. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, we love it as much as you do, and don't adopt you to Serbia, to love Serbia more than anyone else loves it here in this room or anyone living in Serbia. We also love Serbia and we only out of fear and out of caution warn what can happen. Whether the president of the state knows better what to do than some individuals who are in the ranks of the SRS, it can be talked about and pollemed, it is debated, but it is not a matter of debate. It's just a matter of attitude to the state. What is very, very important is that you repeatedly honor us from the SRS, and in doing so, by generalising the opposition, we have not brought any investors. You'll see when the radicals come to power how the investors from the Russian Federation will start. You're the only one on the other side, but don't forget, it's still a big ban when it comes to opening Russian banks. There's still an obstacle to Russian capital. As for Chinese capital, we are glad to have entered, but you must discuss with each other whether it is the merit of Tomislav Nikolic or Alexander Vukic, whether it is more deserved Milan Bačević and Toma Nikolic than Aleksandar Vukic. You discuss it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29703	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29704	Just one question for Mr Mircic – what will Serbian citizens do and what will workers in Serbia do until you Serbian radicals come to power?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29705	Right to the replica on the basis of the asked question, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29706	It is my pleasure to answer such a logical question – they will have to change their mind about those who cheat on them. You cheat on them, you distract them. Not as much as you think, but as much as the awareness of the people has matured, that you have deceived them and deceived them. Just remember how he did it skillfully, Boris Tadic, leaving for Croatia, leaving to confess that Nikola Tesla is Croatia. See where Boris Tadic is now? No one's even looking back at him. Besides, you don’t have to go that far. Remember your leader, whom you praised as now Alexander Vukic, Tom Nikolic. So no longer sees him, nor do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29707	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29708	I'm sorry, and when did Alexander Vukitch say Nikola Tesla was a Croat? I hope you know who started to mark the day of Serb persecution from Republika Srpska – Aleksandar Vukic. Hundreds of thousands of people come to these sad gatherings where we mark the tragedy of the Serb people in Republika Srpska. Hundreds of thousands of people are coming to the gatherings organised by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that your malignant comparison between Boris Tadic and Aleksandar Vukic does not stand at all. I hope you see for yourself, as much as you do not like the SNS, that Alexander Vukic, with open heart and broad arms, welcome both Serbs in Zagreb, and Serbs in Vojnic, and Serbs in Banja Luka, and Serbs in Bijeljina, and Serbs in Kosovo Mitrovica and in every part of the Serbian country. That's something we SNS are proud of. It is a guarantee that Serbia will continue to lead its policy, a sovereign, independent policy, that we will defend the interests and position of the Serbian people in Croatia, that we will defend the position of Republika Srpska and that we will never and under any pressure betray Kosovo and Metohija. Well, that's Alexander Wolf's policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29709	You have no right to a replica, colleague Mircic. Milorad Mircic: I am reporting by amendment. You can do it according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29710	What we've gone away from, what we've forgotten, is that there is selectivity when it comes to the right of strangers. We share strangers here on those who invest and on those who don't invest. We give priority to those who invest and who express their desire to become citizens and can in some way be treated as discrimination. As for all these stories that aim to affirm the person and actions of the current president, do not try to explain to us Serbian radicals what he is and what he does to a man who spent a good part of his life and career in the SRS. Just don't forget that when the day was marked when Serbs were exiled from Republika Srpska, you did not invite Vojislav Seselj in the city of Busia, which came thanks to Vojislav SRS. How come you forgot, someone who belongs to the Serbian Corps, and at the end of the day, at least you remembered a Serbian radical to call, but you're doing it selectively? It is a little confusing to me, this tenacity in the claim that you will represent the interests and interests of those living in Croatia and those living in Glina and other cities, how is it that, after visiting Croatia in an earlier agreed action, to put aside the decisions of the Liberation Committee on Bunjevac's pleadings, that the Bunjevs are listed as Croats, that the agreement was almost completed to proceed procedurally through the Vojvodina Assembly? After visiting Croatia, how did the president of Serbia suddenly give up the idea? No more of that idea. To insisting on the Croatian president's remarks, you gave up on at least how much satisfaction you make to the Bunjevs to have at least some document to say – Here, we are forced to plead as Croats, and we are the Bunjevs, we belong to an ethnic group. So I was afraid of it, and he was especially strengthened when I heard a statement from the President of the Republic who said that no one in the family was ever a Chetnik, and he was a member of the Chetnik Party for a long time. It confuses me a little bit, so if you could explain it or maybe I could take the opportunity to ask him myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29711	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29712	Who was where in World War II, I think the citizens of Serbia are least interested and the tragedy is that in World War II we had two rather than one anti-fascist movement and that many Serbs unfortunately fell in those inter-Serbian accounts. For us from the SNS World War II ended in 1945. If it's still going on for you, that's your problem. As far as the rebels are concerned, I don't see a single rebel in the SRS parliamentary group, but I see my colleague, Dr. Vlad Babic, from Somboro, the rebel man. Vlado, are you still a rebel? (Government of Babic: Yes. ) Has anyone pressured you from the SNS to plead as a Croat? (Government of Babic: No. It's not. Here, a man alive and healthy, Bunjevac, we are proud of the fact that in the MP group we have the Bunjevec man, proud of the fact that the Bunjevi together with us Serbs in 1918, we are proud of the fact that the Bunjevi brothers together with us Serbs at the Grand National Assembly in Novi Sad in 1918 decided that Banat, Baka and Baranja joined the Kingdom of Serbia. As for the invitation to mark the persecution of Serbs from Krajina, Vojislav Seselj was invited to Busije, but did not come. Last year, his son, Alexander Seselj, came to Novi Sad, and I saw him myself. Whether you saw him or not, I don't know, I saw him and he was standing right in front of the stage, and in some way he was given a special honour and privilege to attend a sad ordinarily gathering marking the anniversary of the Serb persecution from Republika Srpska. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29713	You don't have the right to a replica of a colleague. Come on, tell me the basis for the replica? [[Milorad Mircic: To answer. How can I not have the right to a replica?)]] Milorad Mircic: Now he called me. What if he called you? Milorad Mircic: Here, I will answer now. He asked if any of you had any, he didn't say they didn't. We're moving on, colleague Mircic. (Milorad Mircic: By amendment. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29714	I'm impressed by the chairman. Whatever party it belongs to or crosses is so loyal, it's so faithful that it just preys. It's a model of how a man should behave the easiest way to change ideology and everything. I'm looking for a replica to respond to my colleague Martinovic. A colleague of Martinovic's, he wants to give you information. One of the top SRS officials, vice president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Smiljana Glamocan Varga is Bunjeka, her mother is Bunjeka and you should know that. If you didn't know, I'm sorry and don't honor us with Serbian radicals by calling someone and saying if they're free to plead as Bunjevac. The point is that after World War II, the decision of one party, one-minded system, which you are seeking, is a decision for the rebels to plead, to list as Croats, and now the least we can do is to make the procedural initiative of Professor Slobodan Orlovic, a professor at the Faculty of Law, your colleague, only to proceed procedurally through the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina to put aside such a discriminatory decision. You're changing your attitude. The Prime Minister of Vojvodina received representatives of the Bunjevac in Vojvodina and made a firm promise. However, after visiting and meeting Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic with Aleksandra Vukic, all of a sudden everything changed. It's not, in general, the policy you're running, or the Prime Minister did it on his own, but in any case, a historic great injustice has been done to the Bunjevs. That's the essence of the whole story, and not us here to be sore about who has more of these or those members of the national minorities. That's not the point. They are citizens of this country where we all live together, they have the right, they have the same rights as most, and you can no longer honor the SRS, and you stress that the son of Vojislav Seselj is invited to Veternik, as if it were some exclusive that you have. Every Serb, every MP should be invited to attend, it is his decision whether he will be present when the sad moment, i.e. lady, is marked, you are right. Someone's answering here, if I can articulate that voice, maybe it's one of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29715	You're bringing the end of my colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29716	I won't answer my word anymore, because it has nothing to do with the agenda. Life has abetted that decision that the Bunjevci in Vojvodina have to plead as Croats. So, the rebels in Serbia live, live in Vojvodina. They have the right to plead as Rebellion. There's the Bunjevac National Council. So no one in Serbia has made a decision that people who consider themselves Bunjevci must plead as Croats. In that sense, I really don't understand those illusions of yours. Now we've removed suspicion. So Vojislav Seselj was invited to a bus meeting, he didn't show up, he was invited to the Veternik rally last year. His son showed up instead. So all MPs are invited. Whether they will respond to the call of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is their problem. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29717	Comrade Mircic, you have no right to a replica, indeed. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29718	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope someone doesn't cast the curse yet, especially I'm afraid of this sorcery of magic. There you go. There's some noise in there, but there's no problem. There are some parties here that advocate the arrival of the zeppelin, instead of the metros. So that's this one, none of the answers offered, the Vlach party. None of them can argue that in 2012, we found a completely derelict and abandoned state, a state that was torn out of the hands of its citizens, a country where the deficit was nearly two billion, so, hidden and real, was almost two billion, this same state where 824 billion public revenues were collected. Let me remind you, in that same country, we're going to raise 1,160 billion this year. So, three billion euros are being collected more public revenue than it was in 2012. This means that this power is more valuable and that the purchasing power of our population has grown. No one can argue that in 2012, we had almost double-digit inflation, that the growth rate in three years was almost 50%, the IMF ran away, and no one wanted to invest in this country anymore. Most of us stand for it, at least I thought, for free flow of people, goods and capital. It turns out that many of these programming principles have given up. So if you say that people with money from abroad can't invest here, you're against free flow of capital. If you're against them getting documents here and working, then you're against free flow of people. Then the question arises when you're hypocritical. As far as foreign investors are concerned, we have some foreign investors you've forgotten. I'm going to remind the parties of the former regime of their favorite businessmen, who, as a matter of fact, have done business only in our country. Were they domestic investors, counter-investigators? They weren't putting money in the ground, they were throwing money out of the country. The only business they've done with our country. Let's go, MK Group, who owns this company? As far as I know, a Swiss firm and a company from the Netherlands. It's probably registered to their favorite businessman, but if they watched strictly according to their rules, it would be a foreign investor, who, behold, was allowed to drive this local people. The other one is their favorite investor, so-called. Delta, is it so, Mr. Maritovicu, who had traffic in the 1990s, 70m euros, then increased to 11.5 billion euros in 2010. All that business he's done with this country. Was he a domestic investor? His founders are companies from Cyprus. I ask members of the party of the former regime, who are suddenly so disgusted by this kind of amendment, what happens to that kind of investor? When they're talking about migrants, what it was for the Isaacs, or what it was for, I have to say that their favorite investors, and not only those, but those who supported them, shared them, were mammals. So it's about companies sucking up capital, and their pleasure, paradise and the satisfaction of these investors and their political helpers, it's based on hell and poverty of the poor. The sufferings of the poor and their hell-bent on the wealth and paradise of the former regime's representatives. They're investing outside. Goran Jesic, an apartment in Vienna, is over 500,000 euros. That's the kind of investment we always welcome here. He's also investing in the Maldives. The Wolf of Jeremic invests in Manhattan. Mr. Gilas invests in the Czech Republic, and Mr. Sapic, for whom I did not get an answer, recently invested, reportedly out of the country his personal savings, which he deposited in cash in the bank, brought abroad worth 800,000 euros. That's why I'm saying that their investors were mammals, when they were talking about migrants. This country belongs to its citizens. Citizens have built this country. Some called them peasants, though. I highly doubt those from downtown, any city, would make a state. But, behold, Karadjorgje, Milos Obrenovic, peasants, as they would say, this other Serbia, the smell from the farm, they would call them. They made this state, I say, the citizens created this state and the state must repay them, whether domestic or foreign investments, so that they can work honestly and live with their work with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29719	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29720	Thank you. With this amendment, I have proposed that this law be applied to foreign persons who need to help economic development in Serbia with their business. As we have heard many times today, Serbia is definitely the leader in Europe today when it comes to bringing foreign investors, and the government's plan is to work to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. What is very important is to point out that thanks to domestic and foreign investors, 170,000 jobs have been opened only in the past three years and are working intensively on even regional development. Also, I would particularly like to point out, although we have heard this more than once, that today unemployment has been at the lowest level since 1997 and that it is only about 12%. Of course, when I say just because it's a record in recent history, but of course it's going to go to make that unemployment less. It is particularly important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working on youth employment, so I would like to point out in particular that when the government brings investors, i.e. the choice of investors, is also being led by investors with them and bringing innovations. We are a country that must be, are inevitable and very fast change and modernisation, so innovation is something that monitors investors, so I would point out that today there are around 1,600 companies in the IT sector that employ around 14,000 young engineers, mostly young people in this area. As we have heard, many more young engineers in this area will be needed, so investments in this sector will always be welcome. I would especially point out what I just said during the first amendment that I have submitted, that Serbia has many advantages, but I am particularly emphasising yet another geostrategic position, because Serbia is at the crossroads of European roads and now that we are a macroeconomicly stable country, we can rely on that advantage, because the roads that lead across our country will definitely bring investors into our country. So, the government's priority is travel infrastructure and investors and domestic and foreign equal development will contribute, which, of course, confirmed that Serbia is not only developing in Belgrade and that the results of the elections were not only great in Belgrade, other cities where we held elections, both Arangelovac and Bor and Sevojno, where over 60% of people voted for SNS as the headquarters of this government and for this state policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29721	Thank you. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29722	Thank you. My colleague Tomic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. I won't talk much about the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals, because my colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, spoke extensively and nicely about it. Very short. For the 2030 Agenda, we know that there are 17 objectives, 169 sub-targets divided into four groups, and the most important is economic growth, human resources development, environment and climate, institutions, finance and co-operation. In 2015, the Serbian government established a working group that brings in, in fact, monitoring the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and we are already implementing it. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia implements the goals of sustainable development, as investments are everywhere, spread throughout Serbia, from Saturday to Vlad's Han. We've leveled domestic and foreign investors with the investment law, and there's a confusion about whether there's anyone favored there. Of course there's more foreign investment, but we all have the same rights. We fight for every new investment. The citizens saw it and saw that we love our country, that we love our cities and our Belgrade. Serbia has changed and the results of the work are most important and they can be seen. The opposition's MPs and MPs have been insolent today about our amendments. Should we tolerate them or shouldn't we? First of all, they need to look at their work, their results and political engagement. We know that in the last check, the Belgrade elections, they received clear messages from the citizens. One of those messages is enough, run, as my dear colleague would have said here - run. It is not their political pension that President Aleksandar Vucic, nor SNS, is not Facebook's fault, it is not the media's fault, but they themselves, i.e. their political engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29723	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29724	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines the persons to whom this law applies. These are foreign persons who further encourage the development of all regions in the Republic of Serbia with their business. In this I always insist - a balanced regional development, a balanced investment in all the districts in our country and in Nisavska, and in Toplička, and in Raška, and in Rasinski. This is all about raising the economy as an engine of development. We are witnessing the investment of some earlier regimes in exclusively political-like municipalities, and the rest of them have been neglected without investment, they have practically collapsed. All of these investments were without a longer-term goal and resulted in the depletion of cities and the collapse of the economy. Given that the strategic goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to invest evenly in all the districts of our country and to encourage and strengthen the development of cities and municipalities in every way, I believe that one such item should find its place in the text of the Foreign Law. To achieve sustainable and rapid growth, we need macro-economic stability, an increase in investment and stable finance. The government has done much to prepare these conditions and we have actually changed Serbia's picture in the world. Serbia is now a country that enjoys great reputation and sends a message that it is a suitable destination for investment. Our results are recognised everywhere, as well as the reforms we have implemented so far. Much has been done to prepare the infrastructure itself, to connect in the region, and also to equip industrial zones in all our cities and municipalities. Practically, a precondition was created for economic development, improving the economic environment, opening new plants, new jobs and reducing unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29725	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29726	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry there are no more members of the opposition. It shows just how interested they really are and the essential theme that we're talking about today and that everything we hear sometimes from these lines is usually farce, acting, and nothing more. Serbian citizens have shown that they are full of acting, that they are full of fakes, that they are full of replicas of life, replica of terrorism and other replicas they offer, and that they showed this on March 4th with the huge support given by SNS and the list of Alexander Vukic – "Because we love Belgrade". Not only did the citizens give support to a single list. Citizens supported the results, supported the investments, supported those investments from Obrenovac, where they will work two and a half thousand people in the factory, supported hundreds of miles of paved streets, supported hundreds of kilometers of sidewalks, sewers, plumbing, anything not done in Belgrade and Serbia decades ago. Serbian citizens have recognised 170,000 jobs that we have created for these three and a half years and compared to those 500 thousand lost jobs. We are still at a loss for what those who say is such an insurmountable gap between us and them have left us. Right, he's insurmountable, there's honest, responsible people sitting here, and there's thieves and gangs of the worst that's ever run the Republic of Serbia. What we have found, what we have done in the past three and a half years, is seen at every turn when you go after Serbia. That's why I'm sure in the voting day, we're going to vote this convincingly on all the draft laws that are on the agenda and that we're all going to move on even faster, even stronger to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29727	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29728	Thank you. In order to avoid any confusion and an amendment that the MP said very little about, I am prepared to support it in the voting day, so I ask him not to steal it from me, as an opportunity to express my will for investors to have special privileges, not to steal it from me by withdrawing before the voting day, so as not to steal all the MPs the opportunity to vote for such a good amendment and, in the end, not to steal himself that he has come up with such a good amendment, and then he withdrew it. It's almost an intellectual property building. I thank you for the opportunity to clearly show in the dialogue that you have submitted amendments that the Government refuses, that amendments for the development of economic, support for foreign investors are equal to domestic investors, that we have had the opportunity to share information on the results and therefore we should not steal everyone's hours of life by withdrawing all these amendments before the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29729	The word has a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29730	Thank you, Chairman. When you lose every idea and politics, and then you say, "Keep the thief," and that looks like you're standing in front of the mirror and you say, "Keep the thief". From that time on, as my colleague Markovic said earlier, so they stole 12 years of our youth, you stole the best years of life from children in Serbia. All you could do was steal. Of course, you're seeing that theft. I remember those underground containers, so people break their legs and butchers all over Belgrade. On my Old Town hole to the hole of those containers, we can't get enough to patch up everything you've dug through Belgrade. Six million euros on that alone, so plus how much it costs to fix those, came out at the end of 10m euros, those underground containers. A greater gift than a measure, the people say, and the people go to elections, so they send you where you need to go, of course, under the censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29731	The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29732	I responded to the amendment, although it was a lot of groundwork in the Rules of Procedure, but I hate to call on it, so, here, I'm going to honor two minutes of colleagues from the majority. I think, Mr. Chairman, that you have been wrong to allow it to be heard, quote, and it can be seen by reviewing a stenogram, which says, “Here sits honest, responsible people, and there are thieves and gangs. ” So, by every interpretation, by every broad, creative, whatever, cheerleading interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, this deserved your intervention. I'm saying, I'm not asking, it doesn't matter, please pay attention, unfortunately, often colleagues on the other side are similarly addressing the opposition. Since the predecessor has not said a single word about his amendment, as I have already said, I hope that the viewers have already understood, these amendments are pointless and are submitted to the order, to spend time, then I will say this only – you cannot treat parliament in this way and irresponsiblely, no matter how many votes you get, no matter how much votes you get. And why is there no more? It was also the calling of the opposition's representative on this side. Well, that's exactly the answer and the explanation. I'm sitting, to be honest, to see how long you'll last this farce. I wouldn't sit down either, and I can't blame my colleagues for leaving. Basically, I think we should sit more often and more. Like I said, you made a mistake when you called me, or a colleague, when he said I wasn't sitting. I'm also sitting at the polls and I'm often the only one on this side. But I am telling you, dear colleagues, the institution of parliament is devised, not only by the opposition, but, in some way, by the positions of the ruling MPs, or MPs of the ruling majority, when, instead of meaningful amendments, as they were, you and some other parts of the text, some other parts of the law, we do, or you do this farce. So it's no wonder he doesn't have an opposition colleague. I'm saying again, I resent them some other things, but not that they're not sitting around right now and they don't want to give their presence, in fact, to kind of verify this lardy. And this is a joke and you know it's a joke yourself, and you're referring to one single argument that you can call on, which some of you used to do something similar on this side. And when they did, I didn't approve. It is particularly indicative that in such a way that you, honest people, there gang, scum, etc., as we have heard, in a certain 12 years of life etc., speak MP or speak MPs, and of course I could personally talk about many of you, but I don't want that, as some of the truths speak of me, and I don't want the truth of what I'm saying here, but people who have changed four or five parties. I haven't changed a single party, but those who cry and talk about 12 years, some, have actually changed all these ruling parties and have all ended up with you. When you're no longer in power, of course they won't be with you either. You know they exist and there aren't many. I'm not saying they're all like that, but interestingly enough, they're the loudest, the most ugly, and they spit out the opposition, and they call us here as gangs, scum and thieves. So much for that. This day will pass, this debate will end, the vote will be voted out, but I am sorry and I said that in the break of one of my colleagues, I am sorry that good proposals, the good things that exist in this law, have not arrived to be thematical, as well as some that could be repaired. I didn't want to put up with the amendment order. Our amendments, not only mine but my colleagues, refer to Articles 50, 40, 60, etc. Which we will not come to because we, I repeat and conclude, are at this point, after all day's work, not because of me and not because of the opposition, on Article 2 of the first law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29733	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29734	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. A member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. The previous speaker is insulting, and all day long, saying about the amendments of the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group and our MPs, he says that we are devising Parliament's work and he calls today's work a farce. Farsa is something else, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Farsa is when Vuk Jeremic in parliament has two parliamentary groups, so he is vice-president of the party Miroslav Aleksic, in one parliamentary group and the other vice-president Sanda Raskovic Ivic, president of another parliamentary group, and you are her deputy. Maybe you haven't changed parties, that's true, but you've changed nationality, and that's true. So you are a small Serb, so when it suits you, then you are the Vlach; then when it suits you, then when it suits you, you are a political analyst. You're not doing a very good job, though. You missed it this time. The number of votes won by Aleksandar Vukic, or the list "Alexandar Vukic – Because we love Belgrade", missed by about 30 per cent. So much for your expertise. I ask you, Mr Arsic, that those who have learned nothing else in life to do but to be rich at the expense of the people, warn that what SNS MPs are doing is no farce, is no distraction, but representation, consistent representation and struggle for SNS policy, especially when it comes to Serbia's economic development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29735	I don't know if he changed his name in the meantime, he's been talking about amendments all day, the basics of getting words are according to the amendments, and he's been saying other things. There's really nothing I can do, except make warnings, take away their words. That's not what you want, of course. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29736	Thank you. I have to say again, since obviously we still don't understand each other. So, consistently from the amendment to the amendment, carefully listening to the minister with reasons for refusing the amendments, carefully listening to each MP's argument, I say I will support the amendment. I'm just asking you not to take away everyone's ability to express our support, nothing more, nothing less. So the whole idea, I repeat, is legitimate. I'm listening to the amendment, I'm listening to the explanation, and we're staying in a misunderstanding that you're mad at me, and you're saying things like that, something like that, that grandma teaches kids not to say it in public, but, well, it doesn't matter. Why the anger? Because I want to vote for an amendment that I consider good, with all due respect, go through the stenogram, if you will, and the Minister for His Explanations and each and every one of you individually. What do I get in return? You're right, our misunderstanding is deep, but anyway, don't steal those amendments for voting day, let's all vote when they're good, for investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29737	By amendment, MP Mirko Krlić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29738	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I simply have to react, because here a heavy accusation has been made of the great effort of my fellow Members of Parliament to write amendments and to explain them each and every one of them, unlike those amendments – it is written, deleted by one of the same reasons, by the system – copy-past, which I have spoken before. However, here we have heard another accusation, that all that is happening today in the National Assembly is a joke, without any political attitude, without any political morality. I'm just going to say that from the one who said that, a former political analyst, we've heard here most of the times, from both eyes, tears for Kosovo and Metohija. When we adopted, I must remind you, when we adopted in this Assembly the budget for last year, then 581 was abolished by the idea of one MP from "Enough Has Been", the appraisal from which the SPC, the Red Cross, the help of children, the assistance in Kosovo and Metohija to folk cuisines, the assistance of those who have been arrested, expelled and the legal assistance of those who have been seized. The only MP who voted in favour of the amendment was this MP, out of both eyes tears for Kosovo and Metohija, in each of his discussions. So much for farce, so much for political morality. Even Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, who clearly advocates recognising Kosovo and Metohija, did not vote in favour of the amendment. Look at the stenograms. There, it's one man's political morale.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29739	The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, dear ministers, I will return to the topic of economic development and I will provide citizens with some information that I consider important. When we talk about economic development, improving investment, new technologies, the first thing that is imposed is the issue of highly educated personnel that we have in Serbia, I mean, first of all, engineers. We in Serbia, thanks to Serbia's efforts, today we have political stability and increasingly bilateral and economic relations with Germany. A confirmation of this is the arrival of Continental in Serbia. One of my colleagues has already mentioned it, but there's no mention of any further details. For years, the Continental researched and concluded that conditions were created for their arrival on the Serbian market. They want close co-operation with the Serbian government. Opening the Continental Research and Development Centre in Serbia will employ 500 experts who have graduated from technical schools. This company has an extremely long tradition, was founded in 1871, and it is indeed a great success to have such a company in Serbia. The expected gross salaries are employed by around 2300 euros. Serbia's second advantage, which is being reached by the agreement between President Vukic and German representatives, is the country's remaining experts. All our engineers who have worked on themselves, acquired a high level of knowledge, will be able to stay in Serbia and work in such a serious company. Another foreign investment with us is the opening of the "Simensa" in Kragujevac, which will produce rail vehicles. These companies require serious access. It is up to us to show how much we are, and as a people, and as a government, in fact, serious about our intention to keep this relationship with foreign investors at the highest possible level. We thus confirm what is already known in Europe and the world, which is that Serbia has become the most valued economic partner in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29741	Thank you. To Article 2. The amendment was brought together by the MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bagby, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29742	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, is the aim of this amendment to further define the persons to whom this law applies, so that we have proposed that in Article 2. The proposal for a law on foreigners adds Article 3 which reads - this law applies to a foreign person who needs to help economic development and greater social equality with their business. Today foreign investment is a key factor in the development of the economy of many countries. The role of foreign investment is of great importance for the process of transforming national economies, especially in the case of countries such as Serbia, which are in the process of serious economic reform and in these countries this form of funding provides a significant inflow of capital. The reason that, decades ago, decades and a half ago, even though there was an opportunity, we had no more foreign investment, there was, above all, unharmonised legislation, a broken judicial system, a bulky bureaucratic apparatus and corruption at all levels of state. During that time, it was not a matter of state, but of personal interest, which cost ordinary citizens the most. Instead of opening factories, they destroyed them, closed them, instead of hiring people, they forced workers into the street. With its responsible policy, the current republican government has had a crucial impact on establishing political and financial stability in Serbia, i.e. establishing a much more favourable investment environment in Serbia. Thus, in 2016, Serbia attracted twelve times more greenfields of foreign direct investment than would be expected for the economy of that size, and Serbia became attractive to foreign investors thanks to the serious reforms it had implemented in the past four years and which, besides other, had shortened its time to register companies and issue construction permits, so Serbia was named the best country in Southeast Europe at the end of last year under the criteria of implemented reforms, which made it extremely attractive to foreign investors. All this shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken bold reform moves that have improved the investment environment, attracted a large number of new investments, leading to the very rate of unemployment, which, during the former regime, amounted to about 26% today, being slightly above 12%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29743	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29744	In Article 2, point 3 is added where it is defined exactly which party is subject to this law. Item 3 is added and read – this law applies to foreign persons who need to help the economic development of undeveloped municipalities with their business. In order for this to happen, there are preconditions, and a great precondition is put forward by exactly the MUP, where personal and property security of citizens should be improved, I will not be taxing. The results of work in the fight against organised crime have been improved, an adequate and effective response to the migrant crisis, etc. So these are all the conditions, the preconditions that must be met in order to achieve this law. In addition to the definition of persons in Articles 2(1) and (2), it is important to define the persons listed in Amendment 2 and thus cover all persons to whom the law applies. Thanks to the hard work of the president of Serbia and the government, our state has become extremely attractive to foreign investors for investment, and as investors themselves have been pointing out lately, a shift has been felt for the better in all segments. Thus, by adopting this law supplementing the proposed amendments, it will be one of the more significant steps for the country's flow of investment, as well as the establishment of a favourable environment that would keep foreign investors and encourage them to engage in the process of economic development of undeveloped municipalities and areas that there is much thanks to the neglect of previous authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29745	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29746	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, I personally believe that it is in the state interest that all foreign parties or foreign companies operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their businesses should be helped by the economic development of our country should have some relief. I will also remind the citizens of Serbia and you, MPs, that during 2017, the total amount of foreign direct investment in Serbia was 2.1 billion euros. What is significant is that even economic analysts have forecasted growth, i.e. that level of investment up to 1.7 billion euros. What is also a fact based on all these parameters that I am presenting, is that precisely by the adequate relationship of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Economy and the creation of an overall economic and market environment, this level of investment is precisely at this level that I have said. Last year was 2.1 billion euros, an increase is expected this year. As for these reliefs that I'm talking about, first of all, I find that through these reliefs, I speak in terms of faster obtaining personal documents, but all those reliefs already being made at the level of local self-government in terms of reducing local taxes over a certain period of time, tax cuts if paid at once, then, paying taxes on wars. So, first of all, we're talking about the effects that such a way of dealing with foreign investors has on our economy. What is also very important is that this problem is taken very seriously and at the level of local self-government. We have a lot of examples in our country where local self-government is precisely the kind of approach that attracts new investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29747	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29748	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I have proposed an amendment concerning strengthening economic development and improving the conditions of life of refugees, displaced persons. It is well known to all of us that the state is doing everything in its power to create an ambience with the goal of having as much direct foreign investment as possible, to increase the number of jobs, new technologies, to come new capital to employ as many citizens as possible and to improve the living conditions of our citizens. One of the target groups that are particularly vulnerable, which have suffered a major tragedy, is about half a million refugees and exiled Serbs living in Serbia and over 200,000 internally displaced people. I think it is very important for the Serbian government to continue its measures and activities, help create new jobs, help that this vulnerable category of people, expelled Serbs and other refugees and internally displaced persons can be employed, that they can live off their work and that they can provide their own existence and their families. I think the Serbian government is making every effort in that direction. It is also very important that the government, which also does, also helps strengthen domestic investors, help successful business people from vulnerable categories open firms, create new jobs and help hire and solve Serbia's key problem, which is the issue of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29749	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29750	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers with co-workers, I propose this amendment to add Article 3 to Article 2 which I propose that this law be applied to foreign persons who can help economic development and reduce unemployment in Serbia as well. Dear colleagues and colleagues, only in Leskovac, in the city from which I come and whose citizens I represent in this high home, in the previous period, since the SNS was in power, 5,000 new jobs have been opened and with a reduction of unemployment continues, because Jura is building its third production plant in Leskovac and will employ 1,200 new workers this year. Also, Ginsi company will employ another 300 workers in the space of former Synthetics. All of this is possible because the local government of the town of Leskovec bought formerly failed social enterprises "Jugexpress" and "Synthetics" and invested 70 million dinars for this purpose, and the government of the Republic of Serbia helped with 186 million reconstruction and adaptation of the Synthetics building, in which, as I have already said, 300 new jobs will be in a few months and thus the government of the Republic of Serbia has helped economic development of the South and reduce unemployment. Also, Romania's Terra Style opened a new production plant in Leskovac in 2016, and it is almost certain that there will be more jobs in the coming months. In Grdelica, the Dutch company also opened its production plant and after 15 years of Grdelica, a varoš near Leskovac, was returned to Serbia's production map, primarily thanks to the highway that reached Grdelica. Also, in Vlasotinc company Gruner opened a new production plant and will employ more workers in 2018. After 30 years, a new company that employs 300 workers opened in Leban and plans to open another production plant in 2018, which will also employ another 300 workers. Certainly the most significant investment for Leskovčane is the Aptiv factory, which is already building a factory in the green zone that will employ 2,500 jobs in the coming period, which will certainly have a significant impact on the reduction of unemployment in Leskovac. So, efforts that the local leadership of the town of Leskovec, headed by Mayor Cvetanovic, are making to keep existing investors, but also to attract new investors, the citizens of Leskovec, were certainly recognized by the election on 4 March with the advice of the local communities of the SNS list, 93% of citizens' support. What is very significant is that in these elections for local community councils, almost the same number of citizens as in last year's presidential elections came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29751	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29752	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, my amendment reads: “This law applies to foreign persons who need to help their business develop and reduce social differences. ” In fact, difficult fiscal policy measures have led to economic recovery and economic recovery. This led to new investments, over 60 factories opened, employs more than 170,000 people. You, I mean the opposition, in 2008, fired 400,000 workers, there's social unrest, and we hired 170,000 people, there's social peace. I apologize if it is a difficult word, but it was so, from 2012 to 2016, and in particular 2016, a good social programme, a natural outflow and requalification, no man, a Serbian citizen, was fired. That's how the responsible government works. Why are we pushing for foreign investment? Because without it, there's no better for us. Let's just think of one of the most successful cities in the former Yugoslavia, Vienna. Thanks to SNS and its president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, there have been new investments, especially German ones. The famous company Knot opened the company in 2003, but a dozen employees were employed, and now we have 570 employees in the 20,000 squares hall. As far as Germany is concerned, all German companies have opened a mass of companies here and hired over 35,000 workers, with a tendency to increase the number by a few years to 50,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29753	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29754	Thank you, Chairman. Despite the attempt to ban colleagues sitting across from me to submit amendments, I dared to submit an amendment to Article 2 of this bill, which, if adopted, would become attitude 3 and would read: "This law applies to a foreign person who is supposed to assist the economic development and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia". Because of the colleagues I have cited, I will repeat -- the economic development and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. An explanation for this amendment is the need to further define the person to whom this law applies. I really think there is a need for apostrophe and further apostrophe of economic development and modernisation of Serbia. I believe that it is useful and I believe that there is simply a place for such specifics in this law, especially if we have in mind that they are completely complementary with the Serbian government's policy, or that they are based on those principles and objectives that the Serbian government has defined. Economic development and modernisation of Serbia are the main preconditions for improving the business climate in Serbia, improving business conditions, so repairing the business environment is again a prerequisite for attracting new investments. I am now not deliberately stressing that foreign investments are involved, but I am talking about investment as such. By attracting new investments, we get new jobs and thus raise the overall economic activity in Serbia, thereby raising the standard of living. All of these are the reasons why I felt that these definitions should contain this bill. I repeat, it is the economic development and modernisation of Serbia. I would like to ask the great experts sitting across from me – what is the problem with the particular economic development and modernisation of Serbia? What's a joke? What's phantom about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29755	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Martinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of my amendment is the link between Serbia's economic development and strengthening the security system in our country. We believe that only investments, the creation of new jobs, the growth of the national gross social product can lead to greater security for the citizens of Serbia, i.e. there is more money in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for our soldiers and police officers. So we don't get the situation that happened between 2000 and 2008 when, just to remind the citizens of Serbia, more than 500 tanks and hoodies, 220 armored infantry vehicles, more than tens of thousands of light weapons were destroyed, 1,200 arrows type 2, 1,100 anti-aircraft cannons, 26 multiple rocket launchers M63. Also, that we do not experience the situation that happened to us in 2007, when the military minister then told the US ambassador in Belgrade, according to journalist Ljiljana Smajlovic, that his actual mission was to, quote, prepare Serbian armed forces to join NATO and monitor around 200 active members of the MUP in which he says, he has no confidence because he says again, they were shaped by Kosovo's experiences. Also, we don't have that situation that happened to us in 2000, 2001, 2002, when then the authorities wouldn't talk to investors from Russia and China after October 5th. Why am I saying this? According to Mr. Radoslav Veselinovic's testimony, he received in 2001 in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, Mr. Yevgeni Primakov, then a member of the Russian Chamber of Commerce, in 2001 and 2002, because none of the Serbian government members wanted to receive him. Also, Mr. Vesenovic testified, and the ambassador of China had problems, and no one wanted to receive him, even though he said we had large oil-based debts. We have submitted this amendment because we want this situation never to happen to us again. We want investors from both the West and the East, we want to strengthen our army and the police and we will talk to every investor, because it is absolutely in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, and above all it is in the interest of their safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29757	By amendment, MP Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29758	I thank the chairman. We talked a lot today about foreign investments and I was therefore surprised when my opposition colleague, from Novi Sad, said at one point – why did we not take the investors who came to Novi Sad to Novacabel and the former factory "27". March’. Well, I'll tell you, we took them, to Novacabel especially, but the problem was that Novacabel was in charge of 50,000 euros, which is, for example, the same "27". March 8,000,000 euros, and the biggest confidant of the "27". March" was the Vojvodine Development Bank, which was otherwise a pig bank of the previous regime. A colleague says we're pushing our heads into the sand. Well, I don't really know who pushed the head and the sand in there and why he didn't say what he was supposed to say, not say how we were supposed to lead them there. The other thing, he said at one point we're giving fertile ornaments to build a factory. I suppose he thinks of 40 hectares of land, which thanks to Aleksandra Vukic and Milos Vukic, has become one of the best places to invest in the Republic of Serbia and where today we have 40 hectares of land fully infrastructured on which we have the investment of Lir, which currently employs 3,000 people and we have another 40 hectares ready for new investments. I guess he meant it. Serbia has managed to attract as much as 7,000,000,000 euros in foreign investment in the last three years thanks to good investment measures by the Serbian government. If we compare it to our neighbors, for example With the Republic of Croatia, then the success of this government is even greater, because in three years we have managed to earn 4,000,000,000 euros in income from foreign investment more than it is, for example. The Republic of Croatia, thanks to good legal solutions such as this law and the incentives that I mentioned, is now in 43 places of Duing Business List, the ease of business established by the World Bank even though we were 91 in 2015. This shows how much progress we've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29759	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here are your colleagues, Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29760	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the proposed amendment is apostrophe of the need and necessity of the presence of foreign investors within our economy and of the economy and further stimulates the process of regulation and precision of their rights and benefits, which would represent an additional incentive for their further investment in the interest of increasing the revenue side of the budget on the basis of foreign investors' contributions and their participation, with of course the maximum protection of domestic economic institutions and other entities as an integral tissue of the national economy. The presence of foreign investors on our market is essential for further development, the prosperity of our economy's blood counts, as it promotes healthy competitiveness, changes in the direction of modernising technological and other components of market structures, the introduction and implementation of trends that are in line with the opportunities and processes of the global market. Time confirmed and showed that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic led a wise policy, attracting to Serbia numerous foreign investors willing to place their capital in our country or start their careers, which is of great and important importance both to our country and to our society in general. As for the city of Nis, I will mention that in 2018 we expect new jobs, such as "Zumtobel Group" plans new 450 jobs, In jurop 190, "Leoni" Nis 500 jobs, "Aster Textile" 400 new jobs, "Johnson Electric" 800 jobs, "Shin von" 50, "Jura" 50 and so on. So about 2,500 new jobs are expected and, of course, this trend will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29761	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29762	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a lot of talk today about why such an inflow of foreign investment in Serbia in this period means during the past few years, why it has not been there before. You know, from 2008 to 2012, we had then, as they spoke to the most European government supported by the whole of Europe, whose main slogan was – jobs as a priority or primarily jobs. But instead of relying on development, instead of relying on foreign investment, their policy was borrowing and public administration as prey. When you define your policy through borrowing, public administration as prey, then in that period you want to define your entire policy in such a way that you don't care about foreign investments, that you don't care about jobs, that you don't care about the state. And you start destroying the state, because you see it as prey. Which foreign investor will believe in the state where judges are elected at the bar, as the government did during that period. Who fired judges, who mass-employed unprofessional people, who had corrupt local self-government, who forced every investor who wished to invest in Serbia. When politics changed, when jobs were put first, it was necessary to change, restore the state, and it is not easy today. It is not easy to restore trust in the judiciary, but obviously a big step has been taken, because without strong justice, a strong state will not come to one place, no matter what foreign policy or anything else. He feels safe when he sees a stable state. That is why, during this period, strengthening the judiciary, strengthening trust in the judiciary, investing in judicial infrastructure, a transparent choice of judicial holders, a new law that solves key problems such as the Law on Implementation and Security or the Law on Intermediation in Dispute Resolution has contributed to such an inflow of investments among other things, and has contributed to the confidence in the state. After decommissioning and destroying the state, we have confidence in the state again. That's why it confirms that if you change your policy and you seal foreign investment, you will change, and we have changed, and this government has changed because it has regained trust in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29763	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29764	Thank you. By amendment. To tell my colleagues that I have been persuaded, my colleague Pavlovic and especially my colleague Martinovic, that they have convinced me of the importance of this. Here I am ready when that day of voting is to really support those amendments, but I still think it's all, like I said, and I think it's seen by the viewers, that they're aware of it and their colleagues, but it can't hurt. They're amendments that can't hurt, but it's harmful what they serve, what they serve, that's what I've said here many times. A fellow Martinovic who progressed not only in making good amendments, but also in finally saying one true, true thing, which is that I did not change parties. He made a mistake otherwise, or he denied everything else by quoting his president, including how much I failed in my research and everything else. If I were such a bad analyst to my colleague Martinovic, your president wouldn't take me in his mouth every once in a while and discuss with me both the polemis and the evening, and in the morning, and the day of the election and the next day. As for some alleged amendment, which I allegedly voted on. You know what I don't vote on bells, I say I represent myself, or I vote on my own behalf, and sometimes I can make mistakes, I don't know, I should check. But in any case, the advantage of those who vote on bells is that they can't make a mistake like that, when a man thinks with his own head, then maybe sometimes he's wrong or he's wrong, like you've been wrong a couple of times and they've pushed the wrong bells, so they voted for something the opposition suggested. But what's more serious and serious than all this is the fact that I'm drawing attention to. With this kind of behavior, with this kind of abuse of procedure, this is abuse of procedure, and you and I know it, no matter how much you and I normally attack or provoke and insult me here, but it's the cross I'm wearing. You are only destroying the reputation of this institution, forcing the opposition to come out, and there is no happy or stable society when the opposition is outside parliament, and then the political struggle is passed out of this aura. So we'd better try to find a common language somewhere, and hear the voices of the authorities and the opposition, so that the amendments and the others can be considered, and not now what should be next. Then we should submit all amendments to the first member of the first law so that we can discuss some amendments. Give us some democracy. Give me some parliamentaryism. Give me some fair play. It's not a request, it's not a threat, it's not an appeal, it's simply a logical warning that even those who don't want to, and I'm among the last ones who want to leave this Parliament, we won't actually have another option, and it won't be good, and even, as a bad message, even those foreign investors you've been talking about so much here all day. I didn't know this was a debate about the government's economic policy, nor are there any ministers who can talk about the government's economic policy, but since you've already turned it, then I have to say that we really live in some parallel universe and that actually most Serbian citizens don't think that they live so well, even those who vote for you. And finally the election, that victory. I say, I wish I could congratulate her, but I don't like the way it's been accomplished. You're calling the opposition, I have nothing against it, although I find it a little comic when I call those most years, the greatest period of those dark 12 years actually spent in power or in the parties of the ruling coalition. So in the DS, in the G17, the DSS, that's where they spent their time, and now they're really suffering and they're crying really hard, and they're really upset. Here's the end. The point is that it is not such a great economic situation, there is no result of an election that can allow anyone to sleep peacefully and it is not a good climate created either in parliament or in society and created among other things, in the last presidential and these now Belgrade elections. Some parliamentarys have been coming in over a year or two, but it's not good to keep it. Believe me, dear colleagues, I said, I have nothing against authority, but so many lies, so many half-truths, so many slanders that you here say that I don't have the time or the will to deny them all and answer. Well, don't you think we could do that at your expense, we have biographies, especially if we were to jewelry something, but I'm not going to do that, no matter what it's not easy to listen to and endure. I call you to some kind of, if you can parliamentary fair play, in the interest of common stay here, not for staying but for solving and dealing with what is of interest to the citizens of Serbia. These are security laws, these are police laws, this has nothing to do with economic standards or foreign investment. Do not simply deceive the public and make them, simply seduce them and deceive them in some way, and commit some kind of obstruction of parliament. The opposition, you said it nicely, often obstructs, sometimes suffers from it, sometimes gets punished, sometimes not punished. I don't practice obstruction, but it's even more unusual when the obstruction is somehow done by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29765	For the truth of my colleague Vukadinovic. Of this non-democracy and regime, and abuse by the ruling majority, you've spoken twice as long now as you have time left. I didn't take a bad guess. And since you've spent all the time you have left, all I can say is you haven't said a word about the law, not a word. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29766	For the sake of truth, Serbian citizens, security and how they play a major role in attracting foreign investors. So, you always have to look at the country's comprehensive system because investors and capital go only where they're safe, just go where they're safe, where there's a rule of law, where people fight corruption, where there's no violence, where there's no savagery, where there's no burning in the streets, whoever does it, where there's no threat of anyone getting out on the street, that there's gonna be a wild, that it's gonna break, that it's gonna be chaos. That's what no one wants. No one normal in the world. Those who want it don't want it well for their country. They don't want their citizens well because investors in these situations don't come to those countries. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and through this set of laws have always thought about how to make the country more stable, and these laws that are on the agenda of the National Assembly, we are thus promoting the area of security and in the field of the Foreign Law, and related to migration, and related to the DNA register, and regarding the Law on Police and Essentially enable foreign investors to come to a country that has better legal legislation. Will the people say that, too? The people make it very clear in the elections, and I find it hard to believe that someone who represents a small number of people who go to elections to support it, and someone who can say most citizens. Don't be so easy on most citizens. I would not recommend that to any member of the people, and at least to anyone who in the elections is quite badly rated by the citizens and citizens are as much as they want to challenge our right here, to say that the citizens bear sovereignty. It is the citizens who have the right to vote that determine what sovereignty is, to trust it with different branches of government, but they are the ones who say in their voices who they trust and as much as they are those who evaluate state policy and they are the ones who say, yes, this is, we live better than we used to. Is it ideal? No one here claimed it was ideal. Was it better than it was at the time that the jobs were lost per hour, so there was that counter, every hour the jobs were lost, but every hour. That's when 400,000 families were out of that job and of course they didn't want that time back. Of course they don't want the time back that drug dealers are key investors in the country, that the state turns its head and pretends not to see it. They don't want that time. They don't want time when they're told about Jellyzara – let's grow mushrooms in the ironworks, maybe it's on us. They don't want to grow mushrooms in the Ironworks. They want us to make steel. They want us to build roads. They want us to do an average of at least 50 kilometers of highways a year, and we're going to do more than that. That's what citizens want. They want to have a serious developed and secure state, and I believe this set of laws will help Serbia to be an even more orderly country, attract even more investors. And I repeat again, it's security and how it relates to all the factors. When security is gone, it becomes topic number one in each country and then no other topic matters anymore. Then everyone just wants one thing, so security can come back. We have shown by good policy both towards the area of migration and in the fight against corruption and crime and in the area of attracting foreign investors what it means to fight for the stability of the country. Our country's president has managed to attract a huge number of foreign investors who have come to create jobs for this country. They could have chosen a country. We're fighting to get here. Look, an example of the airport. How soon would you have given a concession to the airport ten years ago? How much money did we get today? It's a lot of money. A huge amount of money going to the Republic of Serbia's budget, plus money for the development of an airport where someone will get a new job, plus money every year from the airport's profits. So, huge money for the coming Serbia. So that's how you fight for your country, and thank you for all the amendments. I am, however, no matter what anyone has said, once in this House, and I know what it means to make an effort to make every MP talk about his amendment, no one can take it away from the MPs and I appreciate it, so we are carefully considering every amendment that has been proposed here. We've accepted a lot, of course, and if we're not, it's not always because we're different essentially, but because we thought there was a better form of doing it. Anyway, thank you for your work and your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29767	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29768	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens, my amendment is certainly aimed at improving the Law on Foreigners. Why foreigners are important to us, it was said today in a full - time debate. I would really add to all of this something that was not an opportunity, which is to present some very precise data, relating precisely to investments that entered the Republic of Serbia in 2016 and 2017, and above all thanks to direct contracts with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on incentives. We're talking about 2016 and 2017. It's 39 companies. For these 39 companies, the contract was signed that they would invest 387m euros in the Republic of Serbia. The incentive the state gave these 387m is 130m 960m euros, and the investor's obligation is to employ 23,682 workers. So, 23.682 new jobs, 23.682 families who have a future, who have security if nothing, at least to have their books certified, because in 2000, as if Serbia had been hit by an elementary disaster, in a very short time, citizens had lost their jobs and had no certified health books and no wages and no future. Fortunately or not fortunately, but thanks to the citizens who realized that they could no longer trust this yellow company, in 2012, they entrusted the SNS and just in 2012, so to this day in all elections this trust is growing and larger and is just based on results. And I will conclude that everything that has been done to other parties and which has been spinning as a pre-election promise, the SNS has implemented into action and in the coming period we expect even better results, an even greater number of employees, and one of the small contributions will be this Law on Foreigners, which will, of course, come to Serbia, in Serbia that is as safe and secure as these laws that are now on the agenda, are based on justice, freedom and security, I would certainly add, which is more important, both for the citizens of Serbia and for those who come to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29769	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29770	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Law with a proposal to arrange for the application of this law, because I think it is very important to include the parties responsible for the economic development of our country, because in this way, when the country's economic development is strengthened, the health system is strengthened, and given that I am a doctor, I think it is very important that the health system of our citizens is destroyed by 2012, which we have managed to stop and raise to a better level, to continue to work and to be better, because it is very important that our citizens' health is very important. What I would like to add to this occasion is that indeed this government is doing a lot of things, not only in the economy, in the economy, in the laws of security and other laws, but also in the matter of health care, a lot has been done, and we are all witnessing that recently happened and that a clinical center that has failed to finish for years, to equip, has been arranged and put into use, which is KC in Nis. It's all these MPs from the yellow company, who here and now in the tenth hour of debate on amendments, who have a lot of work to do, not to do what they've been paid for and what the citizens have delegated them for, and perhaps their absence and the result that they have finally come to realize that in the last elections they have received a clear message from citizens that they do not want them and that they have driven them to a political dump. What this government is doing and what we, as SNS MPs, are doing, is continuing to work faster and even stronger, better and in the interests of citizens, because caring about citizens is what our mission is and why we are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29771	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. The word is Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29772	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, what do you say to the comments of colleagues across the street, what do these laws have to do with economic issues? They do. It is my amendment that has tried to support the government of the Republic of Serbia's efforts in the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly how I wanted to make my personal contribution and stamp. Among other things, I will appeal again to the 2030 UN Agenda, where in one section it writes beautifully – reducing inequality, sustainable cities and communities. That's exactly what this government and the president of the state are doing. I am particularly pleased to say that the two investments that have come to the King and that we will realize by the end of this year have come thanks to the man who made that promise a few years ago and this promise and respects it. That man is Alexander Wolf. Whether someone likes it or not, it gives its results, and it is seen in the previous, and hopefully in all future elections. There was also a comment on why we don't invest in domestic production, in domestic businesses. We've been investing, but you know what, for the last ten years, there's been a story here and a situation that's not worth investing in production, but in some transge-frange jobs, and everybody's been acting like it. Well, I'll set a bright example. In the city of Kralje, there is a wonderful company called Radiator, which deals with production, which was created, which ran only this year, the owner of a private company was a candidate for an international recognition. They do, but it's a busy and hard job, where you can't make a profit in two days. You have to invest, you have to create, and profit will come eventually. I'm glad that, as far as I know, and the Deputy Prime Minister knows better than I do, that he has indications and that he will surely find his strategic partner, or investor, in some current period. Whether it's domestic or foreign, it doesn't matter to me, it's important that it comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-12-0.u29773	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
