ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34154	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ani Brnabic - why not yet approach the government's reconstruction when many difficult problems in the government have accumulated? We've also got the latest scandal, which the public hasn't been informed of yet, and you know it's my national duty to alert the public when something like that happens. A major scandal has taken place with Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic. It has been discovered that he has some secret companies and secret jobs in Ukraine, that he is misusing his position as Serbian Prime Minister to develop his jobs, and worst of all, he has entered into relations with the nearest political followers, ideological successors of the SS of the Galician Division, so with Ukrainian Nazis. These are very reliable things and should be responded urgently to. It's the worst thing if it goes to cover-up. The minister must be urgently removed, so the whole world knows that with his private affairs, the Serbian government and the Serbian state have nothing in general. Secondly, his involvement with the Ukrainian Nazis, with Hitler's followers, with the descendants of the SS of the Galician Division, we condemn and consider it unworthy of every Serbian citizen, especially the minister. Further delay in reconstruction means that Minister Zlatibor Loncar remains in the ministerial position, who, first of all, does not have any qualifications. He's so-so inferred by that medical school and in medical school, he still has the calling of a technical assistant. It's only in the medical school that there is, so that some people don't rebel like once a few months ago, saying that such a calling doesn't exist. There's one at medical school. It's someone who technically helps with various operations and other medical affairs. However, he has involved teams that control public procurement and therefore we pay far more expensive medical equipment than we should. A dozen, fifteen days ago, at a press conference, I delivered concrete data, data that can't even burn what abuses were, say, about public procurement for KC in Nis, and you know that this KC in Nis still doesn't work properly. Thirdly, in the Serbian government, we still have Deputy Minister and Vice-President of the American and English Embassy Zoran Mihajlovic. It's a public secret. It has launched an action, has been inaugurated by its sponsors to pressure the government in Serbia to bring it to the post of Prime Minister. It's already started. Diplomatic circles lead to that. You may not be informed, I'll keep you informed. There are other ministers due to various other violations that could include the next reconstruction, but these are the three most serious cases and there must be no waiting. Dusan Vujovic must fly urgently from the government, Zlatibor Lončar and Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34156	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34157	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to ask the questions from the agriculture section and the problems of our agricultural producers. At the last meeting, I asked the Assembly a question concerning the establishment of a fund for people who pay agricultural pensions, and it became sick to ensure that they were paid and treated for the next period. Now I'd ask a similar question. It is related to social assistance for endangered agricultural producers. We all know that a large number of people use social assistance in Serbia, that the conditions for the use of social assistance are defined in a certain way, through certain necessary documentation, such as, say, that he is unemployed, that he lost his job and the like, by having 70, 80, 90 acres, hectare, two, three hectares of land, and we all know that a large number of households living in southeastern Serbia and dealing with agriculture and having three to five hectares of land, and it is known to be very difficult to maintain and work on that country, but we continue to do so there. We come to a situation where a farmer or owner of a country that once worked in a company, lost a job at a company, still has his own country, lives in the country, that man currently, to get some social aid like all other people living in the city, in town, that man has no right to social assistance because he has 50 acres of the country at least, and normally, a large number of our people who have worked in some companies, lost their jobs now in the transition from 2000 to here, they now have not enough machinery and they have applied to their fathers, from their grandfathers, normally, that country doesn't want to give to anyone, because that country is their grandfather, and they can't work from that country, they don't have enough machinery and they're applying for immediate social assistance, like everyone else in the cities. These people don't have the right to social aid because they have that country. I would ask - is there a possibility that in the Ministry of Labour, the minister of the current or any other ministry that gives criteria, that the possibility is given to farmers living in the country, who at some point lose the ability to work and have the need for social assistance, to provide these people with social assistance, as well as other people living in cities. Something else that is very important, when a man uses social aid, he also has the right to health care. It's much more important for these people who live in the country, they have land, and they need social assistance because they can't do it right now, that these people can be treated tomorrow, because, therefore, when they get social assistance, the solution from the institution that does it, they have the right to health care, treatment, and they can have a chance tomorrow when something gets sick to treat. That is why I would call on our Ministry of Agriculture, that together everyone, both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour, that we are all working together to give the possibility to farmers who once worked in some companies, who lost their jobs, have their own country, that when they lose their jobs or need help, to get, to have the same rights for social assistance as other people living in cities, because indeed, the real Serbian host doesn't want to ask for anything, but comes in a situation where he needs help, and he doesn't have that right. The same applies to children's supplements, because young farmers, young couples who get children in our villages, have a certain area under some crops, and they can't get the right to a child's allowance for their children because their income from that field, for example, is specifically in our municipality of Svrljig, where I come from, a hectare of land to be processed, it takes 200 to 250 euros, and the profits that this man could have from that country is very small. Tomorrow when someone from the Ministry of Labour is in control and is looking for what the profits are, these people, these married couples, they don't have the right to a child's allowance. There we would have to have some different criteria that together the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour are working on changing certain regulations that young couples living in the country can have the right to a child's allowance and be in some part the same as the people living in the city. That's my question. And all these questions that I'm asking here at the Assembly are questions that hurt a lot of our people living in the territory of southeastern Serbia. Once again, I would like to thank all my fellow Members. I expect we'll be able to solve this problem. I would now take the opportunity to congratulate today – Media Day on all the media, with the desire to work in the same way, to be better and to hear everything that is needed for our citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34158	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34159	Thank you. Citizens and citizens, colleagues and fellow MPs, I refer the first question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Mr. Goran Trivan. The central wastewater treatment plant at one of the most polluted water flows in Europe, in Vrbas, was due to be completed in 2012. It hasn't started yet, and there's no indication when that's gonna happen. The facility was built with money from European funds, i.e. the EU has allocated about 15m euros to build this facility. The media even reported that Serbia would have to return that money. I'm asking the Minister to escort us out as far as this project is concerned. I would like to refer the next question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Given that the legislator we are discussing here in the Assembly is mostly the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that various EU experts participated in their preparation, do you feel that these laws are so bad when the majority, from which the Government of Serbia was elected, submits hundreds of amendments? Do you feel that this does not support the work of experts who have worked on these laws? The next question is for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. Do you and when you plan to join the final amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can effectively and without obstruction do the work for which citizens and citizens chose us in the 2016 parliamentary elections? In addition to the personal insults that MPs make to each other and do not often be sanctioned, one of the biggest obstacles is now and the already established practice of putting forward hundreds of meaningless amendments by, above all, the ruling coalition, but there are no more MPs behind the opposition for the team. To clarify to the citizens, the time foreseen for amendments, i.e. for the debate under the amendment, is no more than 10 hours. One MP can submit one amendment to one member of the law. Most often, laws are put on the agenda that are not so sensitive and then representatives of the ruling majority submit amendments that are practically neither methodologically nor by their composition could be an integral part of the law, to which it is attached and that they themselves do not ultimately vote in favour of these amendments. We're coming up with a constructive debate. Guests who have been authorized by lawmakers, most often ministers with their associates, unfortunately, are yawning because they themselves do not see the meaning of these amendments. We here, no matter what career we have, have or do not have some credibility, when we come to our homes, before we lie down, look in the mirror and ask ourselves whether or not we contribute to humanity and our country, whether we are true patriots or someone's pawns. I want to believe that MPs who explain these pointless amendments don't feel a bit comfortable and that in some dress above their heads, they still have the text of an oath that we all took here when we took the duty of a MP. It is indicative that the coalition partners of the largest party do not participate in this farce, because I suppose they are ashamed. Not everyone from the biggest party in the ruling coalition is involved either. I ask my colleagues who are doing this to examine themselves morally, because citizens are still watching this, and in the history of our beautiful Serbia, it will remain recorded that someone has been chosen to contribute to the country's promotion, and in fact he used the position to mock his own people. You know, patriotism isn't when you argue with officials of the Republic of Croatia over the tarab. Patriotism is not even when you call Albanians Shiptari. Patriotism is when you want a people who are educated, a people who have a high environmental consciousness, a country where the rate of violence is reduced to a minimum. Patriotism is when people trust their country. One of our most prominent intellectuals, Slobodan Jovanovic, studying Plato, points out that the state should be an institution for the moral education of men. I don't blame this government the way it leads, to the most extent I don't blame the way it leads foreign policy. I don't blame the unsustainable path towards European integration, I don't blame dialogue with Pristina either, but what I truly resent is that you have allowed such a moral failure and it is only for the sake of an easy victory in the elections. The question is, what kind of people are we going to be, and what kind of country are we going to have in the end, or are we going to be left with just border crossings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34160	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34161	Thank you. My first question goes to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and concerns the investigation, i.e. the issue of an investigation into Oliver Ivanovic's murder. So these are two addresses I expect an answer from. What was in the means of public information, which could be read, a few days ago from the mouth of Minister Stefanovic, is very unsatisfactory and worrying, because he says – there is no movement and we have no information. I hope there's at least some movement and some information, because it's been 100 days, soon there will be four months since the murder, since Mr. Ivanovic's painful murder and the investigation of the club in place. I know that someone will say that this is due to our security forces, our investigative authorities have no insight or control over what is happening in KIM territory, including north of the Ibar River, but it cannot be, nor is it an excuse, nor is it an alibi, because this is exactly what has led to some kind of charge on account and current, and even one part and previous, but, above all, the current authorities because their actions, their actions, in particular by signing the Brussels Agreement, have led to our investigative bodies, our security forces having neither knowledge nor knowledge nor information about what is happening at KIM, and especially in the North of KIM. We know it wasn't until recently. Next, I believe, and I have the knowledge that this space is covered by cameras and various agents of foreign, Serbian, Albanian. There's a lot of people out there who do, and often a bird can't fly through there without knowing at least some of those structures. So, it is a kind of, that statement that Serbia does not have, and neither do Serbian authorities have any knowledge, self-prosecution and indirect recognition that the moves, the measures in the agreements signed with KIM in recent years have been wrong and counterproductive. So, information from these two ministries. My next question goes to the address of the Ministry of Culture and Information, as it is also mentioned that today is Media Freedom Day. It is known that on the relevant, reference list of reporters without borders, Serbia recorded a 10-seat decline in media freedom in recent years. Someone will also say, there is truth, that these lists and lists are often volunteering and often politics interferes in drawing up these lists, but let's be honest. If this government boasts, and boasts about the progress made on that list, as well as on some other international lists, when it grows and when it records good results, then we cannot say when we fall on that same list – well, that's politics, that's what they're doing volunteering. So, I'd like to hear an explanation from the competent Ministry of Culture and Information. How do they interpret this fall, this rather intrusive, drastic fall on this list? Finally, I join, of course, the question and the dilemmas that my colleague LJupka raised, so I won't waste my time on that. I have to remind you, and there's the address of the Foreign Ministry, of my last question, or since last time, I haven't received an answer yet. What the Serbian government is, is the issue of the foreign ministry and Ms. Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, what does the Serbian government do about preparations for this Sofia summit of the EU and partners, whether it is co-ordinated with the government of Spain and other governments of EU member states that have not recognised the independence of KIM and whether it is possible and whether we will allow Spain and the Spanish, Mr. Prime Minister Rahoj to be a greater Serb than Serbs when the protection of Serbian national interests, i.e. his firmly ultimate failure to find his name on the list with the Prime Minister, with or without a star, etc. The Republic of Kosovo? So again, we are in a situation where someone needs to represent and defend our interests from ourselves, which is both humiliating and offensive and, of course, cannot be a long-term state strategy. So what are we doing and are we going to let again, I say, on behalf of the very foggy perspective of Eurointegration suffer another diplomatic humiliation on the international agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34162	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34163	A question for the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and the Ministry of Culture and Information. "The people who do not have a preserved archive have little chance of proving their duration." These are the words of Dr. Zarko Dimic, director of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts Archive in Sremski Karlovci, who is the most important Serbian treasure of New Age documents. However, it is also the most debauchery. The premises were turned in September last year, for the first time in four decades. Everywhere around you can see a mouse glue on a cardboard with sticky baits, which are the only dam for rodents to get their hands on valuable files. The building is unconditional, the temperature is not appropriate, which speeds up the process of decaying precious documentation. It is tragic that, at the end of 2013, nearly five years ago, the then director of the SANU Archive, the academic of Vasilija Krestic, pointed to the dangers lurking over the most precious collection of SANU archives containing manuscripts, documents and books. It is the largest treasure of this species in Serbia, and the bigger and richer it was only the one that burned in the National Library at Kosančić's wedding in Belgrade in 1941 during the German bombing. Today, manuscripts in the Archives are equally threatened by chemical and biological damages that are developing faster and faster because of lack of money for protection. On the shelves that extend over 300 square meters, three million documents of invaluable value were placed. These are valuable witnesses to our duration, not only for Serbs in today's Vojvodina, but also for our compatriots in other parts of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy, which we today call the Serbian diaspora, reaching Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Moldova, Macedonia and Greece. The treasure, literally, covered in dust, is cared for by all three archivals, although the systematization provides for eight employees. They often don't even have the gloves necessary to handle the paperwork. The archive rooms are underlit because the electrical installations are so weak that the system falls when you turn on only a few lamps at the same time. The founder of the Karlovo archives in 1690 was Patriarch of Arsenija Charnojevic. Here are the documents the patriarch took care of during the Great Peasants as well as the people on the way to St. Andreya via Krushedol and Karlovac. The archive preserves countless shelves from diplomatic files, the written legacy of the Obrenovic family, Vuk Karadzic, Jovan Cvijic, Ivo Andric, Milutin Milankovic and numerous Imperial charters. At the end of the maze is a room where books are kept that, as an anchor, bind us to the ground on which we live. There's a children's christian in which King Stefan Decansky lists the villages and their inhabitants who are assigned to the monastery. All the names are Serbian, which could not change the Ottoman Empire, neither the Austro-Hungarian nor the Third Reich, nor the NATO bombing. There are also some of the books of the monks of Rač, famous translators, writers, copyists, and the Racans in villages, when others were saving only a living head, went into confusion with books that kept the Serbian language and spirit abroad. The archivals acknowledge that they are similar to the Racans today as they know and know how to preserve priceless literary treasures. It is tragic that they do not even have the most ordinary air conditioning in the room where the legacy of world's world's largest air-conditioningologist Milutin Milankovic is located. The archive came into an alarming state, because it was practically forgotten, not only by the general public, but also by scientists, although it keeps a national ID card. The reminders work, in August 2017, an agreement was signed in the Government of the Republic of Serbia on co-operation between the Ministry of Culture and Information, Telecom Serbia and the SANU Mathematical Institute. The goal is, therefore, digitization. My question is for both of the ministries that I mentioned at the beginning – are we going to have anything to digitize at all, are we going to have anything to show the world at all? Also, is it possible that the current government throws two million euros at any fountains? We have the back of New Year's lighting that roses the city for six months over the year, throwing money away for nothing, and what's really worth, what's to be saved, that's not what money is to be invested in. Any authority that doesn't care about cultural heritage can't be called good and can't be good for this people and for this society. I would conclude in the end that the documents at the SANA Archives in Novi Sad have not ruined either the Ottoman Empire, nor the Austro-Hungarians, nor the Germans, nor NATO, and by all accounts the current government will be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34164	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34165	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, who follow the National Assembly meetings, if you have not given up yet, I would like to repeat the questions I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia at a recently held session last Thursday, which I was denied to receive an answer, because the chairman interrupted the session and I did not get a chance to get any answers to these 10 questions, so now I would like to receive written answers from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to all 10 questions and very clearly and precisely with that, whether or not, without any environment, delay, and what we usually get in response to parliamentary questions. So the first question is - when will domestic businessmen be able to count on a reduction in the income tax and domestic farmers to increase catastrophicly small subsidies? So, without any waste of time, when are you going to cut the income tax to businessmen and when are you going to increase subsidies to farmers? So, the exact deadline -- by the end of this year, next year, in 10 years, never, but without empty stories, but with precise answers. The second question – is the Serbian government considering tax reform in favour of the family, on the basis of which marriage and child-making would reduce the income tax and property tax for spouses? So, are we considering this reform and when it will be implemented? It's about a set of amendments to tax laws. The third question – how is it possible that Serbia is the only country in the world that has not solved the problem of bank robbery through loans indexed in Swiss francs that have more than 20,000 families in Serbia and when will this problem be solved? So, not to give any other arguments anymore, but exactly when you're going to solve this problem -- by the end of this year, next year, in 10 years, never. The next question – will the government accept educational workers' demands on single paying classes and a double increase in earnings of 10% this year that have been highlighted at the Union's Union of Educational Workers' Union protest, recently in front of the Serbian government? Therefore, whether these requirements will be adopted will not be adopted. When will all the workers damaged in the robbery privatisation finally be paid back, unpaid severance and unrelated labor? So does the Serbian government intend to make up for all this or not, over 100,000 workers damaged in robbery privatisations? Yes or no? When will the law on war veterans finally be passed? When will combatants' problems in the country wars be solved in 1991 to 1999? Is that what you intend to do this year, next year, for 10 years or never, since we are the only country in the Balkans that hasn't solved the problem of its war veterans, not to mention unpaid diaries and other things, war logs? When after 16 years, this is just a typical example of the disastrous state of justice in the Serbian judiciary, when, after 16 years, will the trial for spying against General Momcilo Perisic, who was shot and arrested in 2002, giving state military secrets to the US chief of intelligence for the Balkans in one of the largest and most successful actions of the Serbian military security service while General Aco Tomic was at his helm? So, is 16 years enough to complete one trial for spying, or does it take another 16 years or how many decades to complete a lawsuit in this country, and it's about spying, treason and high treason? Finally, the Kosovo and Metohija issue. These days we heard contradictory information, Serbia's president for a Sunday paper in Serbia, said Kosovo was long lost, told an influential foreign paper that he is ready for any compromise if he gets something in return. Here on Thursday, Republika Srpska Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said she would sign anything, while Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's first prime minister said he would sign nothing and that there is no discussion about getting a chair in the UN for so-called. Independent Kosovo. So, the question is and answer me please, each minister individually with yes or no – will he sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia who will sign a legally binding agreement with the false state of Kosovo, which allows Kosovo to join the UN? Yes or no? A question for every minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, for the president of the National Assembly – when, finally, since this is a topic in the whole world, will the topic of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be Kosovo and Metohija at a special session on the topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34166	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, my question is more suggestions and a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture Nedimovic and all of us, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, more than a question because I have been doing this prolematic work for a very long time in my professional work, where I have achieved all the titles. In recent years, there has been a very positive approach at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, that much more work is being done to reforestation and create conditions to increase Serbia's level of noise to 41%, according to strategic documents, the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, the National Forest Programme and other acts. The beginning of the creation of legal and financial opportunities for more noise began at a time when the resolute minister was Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic and continued really and later. There was a large time vacuum after the youth’s work campaigns were organised, when it was being forested in the 1970s and 1980s last century over 10,000 hectares, in order to bring it down in recent years, after 2000, to only about 200,000 a year, which is small. I think this is a very positive view of the reforestation that has a lot to do with which the current leadership of the Forest Administration, Stamatovic and the associates should be supported by the government itself and by all the factors of this society and the Assembly. This positive trend should also highlight the merits of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of our Assembly and the chairman of the Assembly Committee who has scheduled several sessions on this subject and at which we have discussed the past period. There have already been numerous rural estates, meadows and pastures in Serbia, and we must not all allow these estates to be reproved if there is a possibility of these areas being deforestationed. Most of the unshumbled areas are privately owned, and the owners themselves in most cases do not live there. The State, the Ministry and the Forest Administration have made it possible from a legal organisational point of view for the owners to reforestation their parcels by dividing free seedlings, even paying for planting on these parcels, but my impression is and I noticed that there is no broader overall initiative of the parcel owners themselves because they do not know about these opportunities that exist and that the state allows them in the last period. It would be necessary to work on the education of owners of unprocessed surfaces and to point them to these opportunities. This is where we expect the support of agricultural advisory services and forest administrations on the ground. So infrastructure exists to realize that goal. There are large areas of the sixth and seventh classes of agricultural land of fertility that are suitable for these actions, because if this is not done, the surface will be rooted in non-productive types of bushes and it will take 200 years for them to be brought in by forest cultures. This is how we skip this whole natural slow process and we're going to create valuable forests in a very short time, especially now that there are a number of rapidly growing kinds of trees and opportunities that the state allows. Simply, we should all be state authorities and institutions, supporting this state and forest management drive that has been creating favourable conditions for the shaming of not being practically realized on the ground for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34168	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34169	Thank you. My first question was addressed to the Minister of Culture and Information, Mr Vladan Vukosavljevic. I stress that I refer this issue to seven representative art associations, which are the Association of Drama Artists of Serbia, the Association of Serbian Film Artists, the Association of Serbian Film Artists, the Association of Ballet Artists, the Serbian Literature Society, the Serbian Pen Centre and the Association of Literature Interpreters of Serbia. authorised proposings, members of the National Council for Culture. Whether the Ministry of Culture and Information will withdraw from the Assembly's procedure a summary list of candidates for the National Council, since it has shown that the names of two illegal candidates Liverorad Ijdačić and Vladimir Logunov, namely candidates who have not proposed authorised proposing, representative association, but a co-ordination committee, which, under the Law on Culture, does not have the right to propose candidates for the National Council, but only to organise the proposal process. Furthermore, after the Committee on Culture and Information adopted an illegal collection list, the only legitimate candidate for the field of theatre art, film art and art, actor Vojislav Brajovic, officially withdrew his candidacy, and thus left the area without his candidate. I stress that withdrawing a legitimate candidate does not make an illegal candidate legitimate. So the list is illegal for three reasons, and only one would have to be enough for her to back down. Representative associations also want to know why the Ministry of Culture has accepted candidates for the National Council, which, in its capacity as a proposing, have proposed to the contrary to the law, the co-ordination committee and why the ministry has accepted the addition of the same proposal, which the co-ordination committee once again has been illegally in its capacity as a proposing candidate, Vladimir Logunov is running for non-existent areas. The art game is a classic ballet, a folk game, a contemporary game and creativity, an interpretation production, when in the Law on Culture, a member of the 16th among the fields proposed by the candidates, there is no such area. How the Ministry explains these gaps in its work, i.e. in the process of collecting a proposal for the National Council. Representatives of the Association estimate that the explanation offered by the Secretary of the Ministry Igor Jovicic at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, that the Ministry is not competent to settle disputes between associations and that it has only united its proposals and sent them to the Committee, is not acceptable for several reasons. The ministry has entrusted the co-ordination committee with organising a procedure for proposing candidates, proposed by representative associations. From that fact, the ministry's obligation to provide the Assembly with a list of legitimate candidates for representative associations. This, therefore, is the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information, and therefore his responsibility. Therefore, the illegal conduct of the co-ordination committee in the organisation of the candidate process is in the direct jurisdiction of the ministry. The ministry's decision to refer to a list of illegal candidates, whose illegality the ministry knows about, as it has been notified by representative associations, authorised proposings, can be seen as an attempt by the ministry to transfer responsibility for violations of the law to the Assembly. I stress, therefore, that the adoption of that list would be a violation of the law. This list is illegal, and the art associations say that the law is not an art act and that it cannot be interpreted according to personal preferences and understandings, but it is unequivocal, clear and basic obligations of the ministry, the Assembly Committees and the Assembly, to respect the law, from which we can expect the respect of the law if it is not respected by the Ministry or the Assembly Committee or by God, the Serbian Assembly, which is what we want to prevent. I would like to refer my next question to the Prime Minister and to all ministers in the Government. Do they think it would be better if instead of the announced 54 fountains in Belgrade, let's say we build 54 new hospitals, 54 kindergartens, 54 schools, not only in Belgrade, but in all of Serbia. Or, let's say that 54-voro children are sent to the necessary treatment abroad or where they can be cured, or that some parts of Belgrade and Serbia get sewers, water, electricity and the like? All this is much and far more necessary than 54 fountains, masts, New Year's lighting and everything here in Belgrade, trees of various New Year's, pays thousands and millions of euros. So I want to ask them if they think this would be better used money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34170	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34171	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, I would like to refer the first question to the Prime Minister. On April 3rd, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure about the transfer of ownership over Nis Airport and about a statement by the mayor, who then said Nis was missing 10 billion dinars to realise his plans and future investments at Nis Airport, and that it should therefore accept the government's initiative to transfer Nis airport ownership to the Republic of Serbia. I asked the team the question – which is why a 10m-euro bank guarantee is not activated for the good performance of the works and obligations Nis has made towards Serbia's military to transfer 10% of the squares built in total of 300 000 squares and received an answer that is really interesting. I think it is important to read it and why the city of Nis should carry out the transaction ordered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here's an official response in two sentences from the Deputy Prime Minister. According to the city's request, the Republic of Serbia has concluded with the city an annex on the extension of the deadline for meeting the city's obligations to the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Defence. So there is no answer on why there is no guarantee of good performance, so I repeat that question – why does the city of Nis not activate a 10m-euro guarantee for good performance of works so that it can fulfil its obligations to Serbia's military? The second part of the response I received to the Deputy Prime Minister is – there is no giving because the city has not formally or become the owner of the airport, since it has not fulfilled the contract of the intended obligation, and everything indicates that it is difficult to do so in the near future. So this is an official response with the stamp and signature of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and I don't think she has to ask any more questions about it. That is why I ask the Prime Minister – is this response that I received as a national MP or data on immovableity, which we can also see on the site of a catastra in Nis where it is publicly seen, the municipality of the Red Cross, the airport, the property of the airport, the land, under the building and other building, the owner of the public property of the city of Nis. So, public property, all rights one through one, and that is a document that can be obtained on the site, thanks to the development of electronic administration in Serbia. The date on which this property was entered is 14.12.2012. So, six years ago, Nis owns Nis Airport. Another question – is it possible that the Deputy Prime Minister does not know this and is it possible to send such an official response? The third question that is guided by simple logic – why are you making such a conclusion that you are ordering the city of Nis and the Assembly of the City of Nis and the committees to make a decision on the transfer of ownership if the city is not the owner of Nis Airport? Since we are on issues of local importance, the second question is – why does the party-private interest produce violence in Paracino? At the last session, we also referred a question with clear and concrete names and names of people who encourage violence in Paracina and try to prevent the maintenance of the Parliament of the City of Paracina and the assembly and making important decisions for all citizens of Paracina? So, not only to the Assembly, as an institution, but also to violence against Sasa Paunovic, as the mayor of Paracino. The third question, for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic – why did she not answer the question when are we going to get security cameras footage in this room, where would we determine who threatened and wrote a message to our colleague Aleksandri Jerkov? That memo and that request were addressed to the President of the Assembly and I think it is important that we receive and that it is in the interest of all of us sitting in this room to see and determine who threatened Aleksandra Jerkov by writing rude messages in her notebook.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34172	I'd like to thank my colleague Kiric. Before we continue to work, I ask if any of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34173	Dear Vice President, I ask the question to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice on the anti-state action of Vuk Jeremic during his time as foreign minister. Dear People's MPs, Vuk Jeremic, in a people called "Wolf Potomak" has done more in his diplomatic career for Kosovo's unilateral self-proclaimed independence than Hashim Thaci and Bedžet Pacoli. Jeremic is the worst that has appeared at the top of Serbian politics in decades. Vuk Jeremic instead of fighting a battle for Kosovo and Metohija, fought a battle to achieve his personal ambitions and policies to sell out the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia. First, Jeremic made the uncontested issue of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia the first time before the UN General Assembly's General Committee, a motion for a resolution that demanded the International Court of Justice's opinion on the legality of KIM's unilateral independence and thus stabbed not only Serbs on KIM but the entire Serbian nation and the Serbian state. Secondly, Jeremic framed the Serbian public with the EULEX mission to KIM and thus transferred talks on KIM from the UN's competence to the EU's authority and then for the second time stabbed Serbs in the back of KIM, the entire Serbian nation and the state of Serbia. Third, Jeremic is 6. 09. In 2007, at a closed session of the North Atlantic Council in Brussels, he said he advocated, quoting "full Serbia's membership in NATO", a quote, which he provisionally confirmed as "Wikiliks". Fourthly, Jeremic introduced Kosovo documents for Serbs to KIM and installed administrative crossings. Fifth, for his action against the interest of the Serbian state, Jeremic received a prize from his Western sponsors -- he became president of the UN General Assembly. Sixthly, Jeremic used the authorial text in "Washington Post" ahead of the US presidential state visit to Aleksandar Vukic and the meeting with Vice President Pens to brutally spit out the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state, which was unrecorded in Serbia's recent political history. Seven, Jeremic spent three million and 600,000 euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget for five years of ministry. The foreign minister's travel expenses covered everything Jeremic could wish for, from several thousand euros to 220 average salaries in Serbia for only one private plane flight. Dear citizens, a flight to Ethiopia for Jeremic, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia paid no less than 70,000 euros. Jeremic stayed at hotels that cost more five times as much as she stayed in Angela Merkel. Eighth, Jeremic also lied about his education "Harvard", because the one on which Jeremic studied is not exactly the "Harvard" we think of first, it is the department led by Professor Joseph Naj, adviser to the villain Bill Clinton for security, who is educated by diplomats who will make coups in countries outside the West. There, Jeremic implemented his professor's advice and thus destroyed Serbia's state in Kosovo and Metohija. The 9th, Vuk Jeremic called - Vuk descendant, Sasa Jankovic called - Sale prangi, Saša Radulović called - a bankruptcy king, Bosko Obradović called - Bosko Lupetin, Boris Tadic called - Lipicaner, Zoran Zivkovic called - a farmer called Dragan Sutanovac called - grab the money, Đorđe Vukadinović called - Vlah, Cedo Jovanovic called - Cedo calculator, Dragan Djilas called - Điki Mafia are for brutal beating and unremembered humiliation of Mark Đurić and the Kosovo-Mitrovic Serbs by the Cypriot thugs led Mark Đurić, Aleksandra Vucic and the Kosovo-mitrovar Serbs, although Rahim Pacolli, the secretary-general of Kosovo, told him that he had been told by the Kosovo authorities that he was ready for Kosovo. I ask the second question to the Ministry of Culture – why in 2004, did the History Archive destroy all documents on the alleged murder of Predrag Gojkovic in Sasa Jankovic's apartment, who was the director of the Archives and who were the members of the commission who destroyed this documentation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34174	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Dr. Danica Bukvic and Balša Bozovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Military Education. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail on the third item of the agenda, the draft law on military education, are invited to attend: Alexander Vulin, Minister of Defence, Aleksandar Zivković and Mr Bojan Jocic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Dr Nenad Miloradović, Deputy Minister of Material Resources at the Ministry of Defence, Milan Mojsilović, Deputy Minister of Defence Policy at the Ministry of Defence, Zoran Lazic, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, General Mladen Vurana, Rector of the University of Defence, Brigadier General Mile Jelić, Chief of Staff at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Luka Jovanovic, Head of the Department of Staff at the Department of Staff at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Slobodan Kisić, Secretary General of Defence and LJiljan Mirić Stanković, Head of Defence at the Ministry of Defence. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law on military education. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title of this proposal for a law on military education, with a proposal for the law to be called – a bill on education in the Army of the Republic of Serbia. As someone who's been in education for decades, I also consider military education as an integral part of general education, with all my specifics. The Serbian Radical Party holds education as the most important social action for both the country's development and its defence and security. Education is a process of gaining knowledge, and knowledge is both power and power and weapons. It turned out to be a powerful weapon in a criminal NATO bombing in 1999. We didn't have military technique and modern weapons at the time to confront NATO villains, but we had the morale, the training of our officers, both General Lazarevic and here present our General Bozidar Delic. I think there will be a long study of strategies and tactics, that with little human losses and military equipment, they have managed to survive the bombing, the greatest crime of all time in these areas. That's why we think it's education, that's why. Military education, very powerful weapons.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34176	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is spoken by the peoples of Alexander Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34177	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on military education. I proposed an amendment to change the title of the bill, so it reads - the bill on education in the Serbian Army. Incidentally or not, the bill's title lacks a national decree, i.e. lacks information that it is a Serb army. We in the Serbian Radical Party believe it is extremely important to highlight this at times when our military is increasingly losing its national identity by participating in peacekeeping missions under the auspices of the EU and the United Nations. What's called in public speech to the peace missions is, in fact, robbery missions organised by the United States and other former colonial forces, and small states, like the Republic of Serbia, serve only to provide the needed people and eventually become a target more if there is a response from those countries that are allegedly democratic and globalistic, and in fact, colonial claims of the West. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that our soldiers should not participate in peacekeeping missions, because these peacekeeping missions in the organisation of the EU and the United Nations are actually a front for NATO. Out of respect for our fellow citizens who died in a criminal NATO bombing in 1999, Serbia should withdraw its troops from all peacekeeping missions in the Middle East, Africa and Cyprus as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34178	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the peoples is an apostle of the Prophets of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34179	We have submitted more amendments to the title of the law, because we wanted to, starting with the title, also help the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the congregation's majority to pass a good law. We think that after a long time in the National Assembly, a bill that really needs to be adopted appeared. I don't mean authentically in the text proposed by the Government, but generally such a law should exist, because we also have here, in the light of the bill, an emphasis that we don't actually have a law in this area as a state of Serbia, and it's good to discuss it. That's why I think both the minister and his associates will have the understanding and the amendments that we have submitted, because it's obvious that the amendments are intended to help make this law as good as possible. We are also pleasantly surprised that for the first time in this session, we are getting a bill that does not state in the explanation that the law is being passed or proposed under some EU directive. That's really commendable. Just, Minister, to drive away from the ministry that NATO office and to launch an initiative to join Serbia, the ODKB, and here we are, both in the military and in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34180	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is spoken by the peoples of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34181	Thank you. Mr. Minister, respected associates, we intervened here to put the title – in Serbian military education. For what? Here, Mr. Vulin will agree, to draw his attention, and perhaps even that should have been the title, that it should certainly be in Serbia, if you want future generations to be raised in a patriotic spirit, of course, we will do everything on our part to talk about what evil comes from the West, that Serbia should never become a member of the NATO Pact and that it should not participate in the peace missions that some EU connotation has. But you will agree, Mr. Vulin, with us that the Serbian military thought is something that should be the foundation of the army. The Serbian military thought was established by more Duke Radomir Putnik. If it had been in this 1st article or somewhere in the law, it certainly would have had a lot of meaning, because if we wanted the child in the elementary school, through high school, regardless of whether someone was going to be educated and, of course, only recently, it had been called academic status, so it wasn't under this "yellow company" that ruined us and that everything seemed to be under NATO's pact, as did Minister Sutanovac, you have to think about not only being enough to educate cadets in the Military Academy, but to start from the primary school and to have children raised in the Serbian military spirit through that military thought that the Serbian army had celebrated, which freed us from the Balkan wars, and which made the best, that the Serbian soldiers give in the First World War and, at the end, at this time, everyone should not have thought that Serbia had a new sense of doing so much in the same way in some countries, or in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34182	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, the SRS has submitted several amendments to the draft law on military education. I believe that the adoption of an emergency procedure would have its purpose and purpose, both in practice and in the general benefit of the entire defence system. Of course, if fundamental changes were made at all levels of the Army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, which is a surplus education, through a system of management, commanding and liberating the Army of various ingeries, such as political, party, and international ones that have a negative impact on the development of the defence system itself, the army will return to the path it has been through the centuries, the image of humanity and heroism, not the army of party personnel and obedients. If we want to have a quality and stable defence system of a single country, we must work to change and improve everything that negatively affects the quality of work and the life of all members of the Serbian Army, which is primarily a poor standard of living, equipment and supply, destroyed the system of education, especially the sub-office staff, the carrying pillar of each army, preventing the outflow of professional officer personnel, especially engineers, from providing housing security for us, such as the recent dead pilots, to have no settled housing issues, and those who are on the way to careers. Because what the current situation is, the Army seems to serve us only for parades and honors, and these are, unfortunately, the frequent crashes of our aircraft and the deaths of top pilots, without anyone's responsibility, all in order to train. And what if we were directly attacked by aggressors? We must invest in our army and work to improve our armed forces. I'm sure if things don't change for the better, we'll lose what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34184	Thank you. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Alexander Seselj, the MP of the People's Parliament, submitted the amendment to the Bill of Law? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen, the SRS has fully integrated with the military institution and you will indeed notice through the amendments that we have submitted to this law that we wanted to get the most involved and make a full contribution in order for this institution, not only to the SRS, but to most Serbian citizens, to have an even better basis. That is why we have already tried to give certain interventions in the name of the law, in order for you to accept it and have one better and better quality law. Your proposal is that this law is called a law on military education, and we have proposed a law on the education of the Republic of Serbia's Army. We also have one constitutional need that in the way that certain things are provided for in the Constitution, so we plead to be precise, and our Constitution says – the Army of the Republic of Serbia. The minister said, explaining this bill that we have now regulated this issue, or applied the 1994 law, it was the Law on Military Schools, military scientific research institutions, meaning back in 1994. There is even part of your responsibility, Mr. Minister, of course not all responsibility for you, and under the general proposal for a law implementing the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the general deadline for alignment with the Constitution was 31 December 2008. Since 2012 and here, when I say I'm not personally thinking about you, I've been thinking about Alexander Vukic's regime since 2012, and until today, in power, this problem, or education in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, should have been solved earlier. We'll talk more through the next amendments, I hope you'll have an understanding of what we've done, and that's your will. We wanted to be, our conscience to be completely clean, but good intentions to help regulate the activities of the military and education be done in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34186	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34187	Thank you. On the proposal for a law on military education, we MPs of the SRS have submitted a number of amendments including amendments to the very name of the bill, i.e. amendments to the title of the bill. We have offered solutions that are better and more precisely edited by the legal text, and it is absolutely no matter which solution you will accept, because each of the offers is better and more comprehensive. At the title of the bill, I have submitted an amendment to the title of the Bill of Law, which is changed and read – the Bill of Law in Military Education and Education. Military education and education do not need to be separated, that is, cannot be separated, as both processes are pervasive. Raising is a process of perfecting sensory, intellectual, emotional and moral abilities, and it is of great importance because it depends on what kind of officer and sub-office staff will be, or what kind of army we will have. At the time of the dosmanium, a moral education was abolished in the Serbian Army, which is of crucial importance for the military and the development of patriotic feelings among members of the army and people in general. Serbia's army, the Dossmanli regime, purposefully and systematically destroyed and brought a disastrous situation. By fulfilling the orders of the West, he destroyed both military techniques and under various pronunciations he distanced capable and valuable officers from our army. The capable Sprski officers were deliberately halted in progress, they were narrowed down and pushed into peripheral duties, while less capable officers were placed in key places and very prone to half-tronity. The Serbian Radical Party advocates the establishment of the army as a strictly professional service and through military education and training in the person of a Serb officer must unite the responsibility, knowledge and military honor based on rich Serbian history and glorious military tradition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34188	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Serbian Army, the SRS Parliamentary Group has submitted a large number of amendments to this law and to other laws concerning the Republic of Serbia's armies. It's the best proof that we take and treat this subject in one serious way. However, whatever we've heard these days from the Prime Minister, from the military minister, our army is unfortunately far from what should be, perhaps the situation is somewhat better than it was before, that fact stands, but certainly far from what should be, especially in this difficult and turbulent time. The Serbs are a people who have always been proud of their armies. For a long time, and even now, the military call was one of the most prestigious calls in the Serbian people. Our country, after all, survives and survives thanks to its army and its army. We are not the people to whom others have brought freedom, but this freedom we have and the state we have, we can always thank our army and our army. However, the army must take the position it belongs to. Unfortunately, today is not the case, because we know about that famous saying, who doesn't have his own army, will have someone else's. No matter what anyone thought of the Army, if we just go back and remember that time of the bombing we saw that our army did indeed at that moment impossible, in those conditions it faced the strongest military force of that time and showed that when it defends the honest people and this country that it can do much more than an opponent, or enemy, can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34190	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable officers of the Serbian Army, with this amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on military education, we proposed that the title be changed so that it reads – the bill of education and education in the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Two are the basis for submitting such an amendment. The first basis is contained in the very text of the bill, specifically in Article 2 paragraph 3 which says – education within the meaning of this law involves secondary education and education, higher education that is implemented by military-school institutions. Starting from the very definition that the legislator himself wrote in the law, this amendment was clearly to be adopted, as the bill does not only apply to higher education but also to secondary education and education in military-school institutions and there is no reason not to enter it into the title of the law. The second basis is found in the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which regulates the basics of pre-school, primary, secondary education and education systems. We believe that it is necessary to define in the same way the name of the law that we are talking about today, not to be a matter that is meant but to be clearly and precisely defined and that secondary education and education in military-school institutions should not be placed in a different position than education and education in primary and secondary schools. Especially when it comes to the name of the law governing this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34192	My colleague Stojmirović, did you answer the question? By amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34193	Dear colleagues, several previous speakers have proposed changing the name of this law. I find it more appropriate to keep the name as it is – the Law on Military Education. I'll say one specific example. At a time when I was in school at the Moravia Technical School Center in Pula, we had several generations of students from Sudan, Libya and other countries. Why cut through the name of the law, that the Army is also now members of other armed forces, so I don't think a change in the name of the law would contribute to any improvement of this law, because the current name gives greater width. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34194	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34195	This could be a replica, but I'm guessing you won't allow it. A colleague who spoke before me was absolutely wrong or didn't read the amendments we submitted. For example, the amendment that I have submitted suggests that instead of – the Law on Military Education, the law should be addressed with the proposal of the Law on Education in the Army. This is wider, this is more comprehensive. We don't have a civilian anywhere marked to have military education here, and it has nothing to do with what a colleague was saying that I don't know what reason, I guess he just wanted to come forward and say something about these amendments. It's not good, and it's the same when it comes to the government's answers, which is why the amendments are not accepted, it simply shows that no one has seen this amendment or the eye, but you've given it to the services there, and then they're writing it by heart, something, some arguments of the amendments to refuse, which has nothing to do with what the amendment has proposed, and in fact it's all talking about the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly and the congregation majority, where they all act together by the system -- we can be, and believe me, it's not good. This is an important law and it is important to respect the facts, the views of all the MPs who are well-intentioned to contribute to this text when we have brought it, finally be good and not be able to sit here again and all of us sitting here for a few days in the next five, six, seven months, to make changes and additions to the law. If we do it today and these days as it is in the interest of both the military and education in our army and the interest of the state of Serbia, then you and I will be able to deal with some other law proposals, and we will have at least to last longer than this government will last.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34196	The word has been made by MP Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34197	Not according to the amendment, I'll use the time authorized, Mr. Arsic, if it's not a problem, it's no big deal. First of all, education in the military and military education is not the same, so I would pray that we agree and return to my speech in principle debate. The Democratic Party has submitted 106 amendments to these laws and, of course, we will not be able to talk about any single amendment because the ruling majority has proposed hundreds and hundreds of amendments to which they will discuss and see miracles, MPs of the ruling majority will vote against their amendments, so that it speaks of another form of democracy that does not exist in the National Assembly, but there are, as I said, laws, which are extremely important, above all laws on multinational operations that we have voted against and there are laws against which the Democratic Party has been and we have proposed their withdrawal. These laws are, of course, at the bottom of the agenda so that we can't discuss them, how the amendments that we have submitted, first of all, to the BIA Act, we wouldn't be able to discuss here, so it's pointless to ask the SNS question why it's doing it, probably not to hear the opinion of the opposition, and probably not to discuss amendments and additions to the bad BIA law, as we won't be able to discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act, nor to the Military Act. This is, of course, thoughtfully done, this is already the X-Yellow way for the SNS to do it, put the first law that is not disputed, is not discriminatory, and then the MPs of the ruling majority propose 500, 600, 700 amendments so that the opposition does not arrive to discuss the amendments it wants and which are bad. Of course, we have also said in the debate day that we agree with the participation of our military in multinational operations and peace missions, and we see that there are some MPs here against it, and we have to fence ourselves and say our political position, that it is precisely by the provision of Article 5(4) of the Defence Act and the defence of the country, by participating in multinational operations. Of course, I'd like to discuss here a law on BIA which is extremely bad, and above all, it's a bad whole law, and on the other hand, it's bad who's going to enforce that law, which is the director of BIA, not to enter personal solutions, names and last names of any BIA director, it's bad that so much authority without any control gets any man. I've got 10 minutes left as authorized, so I'm gonna talk to you today by the end of the day and tomorrow about all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34198	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Excuse my colleague Djukanovic. You see how you, Mr. Milojić, interpret your discussions, you said like this – the SNS has submitted pointless amendments. All right. Here's a colleague of Djukanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34199	Thank you, Your Honor. I honestly wish I'd heard from my predecessor colleague at least one word about the law itself. This was a political story where you imagine, we're honored to have amendments, so imagine, that allows us a Rules of Procedure that they adopted, and you don't vote, among other things, for your own amendments, and at least we stay here and we either withdraw or even vote against our amendments, but we do something somewhere. What are we doing? So we want to get to the point where we talk more, and that's how the Rules of Procedure that you brought us allows us. It's amazing that you claim that one's amendments are pointless, and all your amendments are either – is deleted or changed - point and point. What nonsense are you talking about? At least we're putting up with the amendment to have some content, see if anything can be fixed if it doesn't work out. As far as I can tell, at least under this law, it's more than clear, we're fixing what you've ruined. That's the essence of these laws, and that's why it's good to vote for them and it's really not necessary to endure a bunch of meaningless amendments where we have something to delete or change the decimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34200	Right on the replica Radoslav Milojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34201	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, I am also pleased to say once again that my colleagues on the opposite side are not as right as every time they say something. No amendments of 106 amendments proposed by the Democratic Party have been deleted and no amendments have been deleted to delete the decimal point or point, so you have spoken the lie. I'm responsible for myself, and every time I'm there for a vote, which you can see, and that's not the problem. The problem is that you have now admitted to putting up with a bunch of amendments and voting against your amendments. We vote for our amendments, because we want to add amendments and amendments to the law and we propose quality solutions, as we propose amendments and amendments to the law, 180 amendments and additions are proposed by the Democratic Party and you did not find it appropriate to accept any amendments to the law to discuss it, to hear about the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, whether it will improve the quality of the lives of our members. I said it was not a question of what 300 members of the multinational operations are doing, although it is extremely important and we are, but it is a better question of how 36,700 Serbian Army members who cannot put an end to the end, who cannot pay for electricity, where 82% of them earn less than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. You're going to tell me whether it's good or not, that 72% of the Serbian military who left the Serbian Army did so on a personal request. This is about the principle and the essence of how members of the Department of Defense live. As we have proposed the Law on Amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34202	Mr. Milojitsu, you're bringing an end. You've got the replica. (Radoslav Milojic): I thought I was using the time of the parliamentary group. No, you've got a replica. He now has the right to the replica of counterpart Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34203	Thank you. I'm glad that you've evolved, or that you're no longer being "expunged" or changing the decimal. That means you started reading the law a little bit, which is just amazing, but, you know, unlike you, we vote for our amendments. You're never there when you vote on your amendments. That's the key difference. Now, as to why we tolerate them, so beware, the right opposition is to obstruct such diabolical amendments "expect". It's your right, but it's also the right of the government to let you know that you can't obstruct the congregation. We have a right to do that. It's the Rules of Procedure that you brought, and about the lives of members of the Department of Defense, well, here are the people, they could tell you how he is today and how he was in your day. We can talk about it. You know, I wouldn't want him to come back and ever have the fate of some people in your day, who unfortunately and tragically lost their lives, precisely because of the disastrously difficult life that the Department of Defense had when you were leading him. That's what we've changed. Today, however, the salaries in that Ministry of Defense are wherever and where they are greater and never again invested in the military as they are today. I'm sorry, in your time you didn't regret anything in our army, you just melted the tanks. What do we have today? Today, if nothing, we buy new aviation, buy new helicopters, modernise our military-technical institute, we have new combat vehicles. That didn't exist in your day. What are you talking about? I'd really like to ask that this is no longer how the public is deceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34204	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill – the Law on Military Education. First of all, it can't just be education in the title. There must be an education, because in the military, one of the key items is also different from the other school institutions. I am a member of the 32nd proposal of this law says that teaching staff in high-school military schools are also educators. It is they who teach future officers to be serious, responsible, disciplined. I don't know, it doesn't say in this bill whether Alexander Vukic fulfilled his promise and returned moral education to military schools? It was announced in December of last year and was due to be introduced in January. If not, here's to remind him. It's really a great idea. Secondly, why is there no mention of the Serb army or the Serbian Army, the Republika Srpska Army in the title? The government may consider this to be understood, but the law must not imply anything. Everything has to be clear and precise. We educate our children for Serbia's defence, for the needs of the Serbian Army, and I sincerely hope that the citizens' money will not be spent on education, in order to accidentally serve another army, let's say NATO. These changes may seem cosmetic, but it is very important to adopt them because they prevent any kind of manipulation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34206	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Sarovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as interesting as this debate has been between representatives of the current regime and representatives of this former, whose time was worse, I think it's equally bad and equally difficult both during each other's times. The fact is that in Serbia, the army is not valued enough. The fact is that we in Serbia have a lot of enemies and that practically every border is preyed on by someone who will take away some more of our territory and in normal countries, that would be enough reason to raise both military and training levels, funding and everything else to the highest possible level. The question is, tomorrow in this current situation with the Army, without the law on wartime wartime disableds, without benefits, without gratitude, most importantly, in society, who's going to defend the state next time? Only an idiot can say that someone from Serbia caused wars in the '90s. They were challenged by the West and caused by those who wanted violent secession. What is the guarantee that this will not happen again, that we will not have a similar scenario not in Presevo Valley, because there is no such thing, but in the southern municipalities below, Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear? What's the guarantee we won't have in Vojvodina or anywhere else? I'm sorry that you haven't shown a little more seriousness and the fact is that the government didn't want a serious debate under this law and obviously for a few reasons. The first reason again is the law of emergency procedure. Here, there's the minister, there's his associates, what was it that surprised you? What's the emergency law for? So, you could've, like, wanted to, in a regular. The second thing, once again, is the amendment, again bringing the opposition to the situation that if he wants to speak, he submits amendments to the title of the law. Instead of looking for the essence, we're doing some not-so-important things again. So this is a start. There will be more opportunities through the other amendments, but let's hear what came as a surprise to you, and what disastrous consequences could it be that you couldn't predict that the law was going through a regular procedure, not an emergency?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34208	Thank you. Under the name of the bill, the amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Nenad Bozic, Vladimir Djuric and Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34209	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished officers, fellow Members of Parliament and citizens and citizens, we have submitted an amendment to the title of the Law on Military Education, requesting that the title be supplemented by what will be said – the Law on Military Education and Education. I could now use the right of the Rules of Procedure to explain for two minutes why I think adding the word "request" to the title of this law is essential, I could talk for two minutes about having a secondary military school, and at that age, educational and educational work is equally important, but I would use this amendment time to appeal to the ruling majority to change the practice we have in the last few sessions when the amendment is being submitted. I agree with the honourable speakers of the ruling majority, that it is the right of the MPs to submit amendments and I have rightly taken advantage of this and submitted an amendment that is not essential for me to get the opportunity to say what I am saying and appeal in two minutes to stop obstructing parliamentary debate. I respect the right of every MP to submit an amendment. It is a right prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, but we here have a kind of playing of the rights that the Rules of Procedure gives us and we have a play of rights and we have a practical abuse of rights defined by the Rules of Procedure. In the end, the progress report from the European Commission says that inter-party dialogue and parliamentary debate have been hampered, it explicitly noted, by intentional obstructions of the ruling majority. You can say that this report that the European Commission has given us is of no interest, you can say that in our Parliament everything is great and wonderful, but, frankly, to submit amendments that usurp the time of amendment and which prevents debates on important issues of consequence will have laws that will not be discussed in particular. It is a kind of underestimation of the legislators, a kind of blackmailing of people who are the authors and creators of these legal provisions, and it is an underestimation of those who, by these laws, should live and work and perform a very responsible duty in this country, which is a military-security activity. So I appeal and use once again the right to another two amendments submitted later to repeat this appeal, appeal to the ruling majority to give up the interpretation of their amendments which are not essential to the content of the law and which do not regulate the technical and professional details of the laws that are on the agenda today. Because I will remind you, after the Law on Military Education, we also have additional important laws, such as the Law on the Army, the Law on the Use of the Army in multinational operations outside the borders of Serbia, we have the BIA Act. We strongly urge you to allow an opportunity to discuss essential and technical important amendments, so that members of the country's military security forces from this assembly hall come out with texts of laws that have passed a quality professional debate, not political propaganda and promotional performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34210	Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Djukanovic. (Alexander Martinovic: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34211	Dear People's MPs, Article 107 has been injured. First of all, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a total of 1,600 amendments have been submitted to the set of laws we are discussing at this session. The SNS parliamentary group has submitted 380 amendments. Who submitted all the other amendments? Members of the main opposition parliamentary groups submitted. Therefore, the first and wrong claim that SNS MPs are suffering the Assembly of some, they say, unnecessary and pointless amendments are not true. The other thing, whether an amendment is essential or not, is the personal opinion of each MP. We think our amendments are essential, as you probably think your amendments are essential. Through the amendments that we are submitting as a parliamentary group, we affirm everything that is good in the government policy of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to defence. Third, submitting the amendment is no obstruction. When you apply the law that makes the legal order available to you, then you are not obstructing. Obstruction implies abuse, obstruction implies that you take a right that doesn't belong to you. When you use the right that the Rules of Procedure gives you, it's no obstruction whatsoever. Fourth, the time to argue, and that's what you won't tell the citizens of Serbia, someone tells you, is stealing your time. No one can steal your time. You have so much time with the number of MPs, and the number of MPs is not won in the Assembly, but in the elections. And you don't have a problem with the SNS parliamentary group, you have a problem that your Serbian citizens don't respect and that you don't have enough MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34212	Thank you. I don't think he's a injured member. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Alexander Martinovic: No. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34213	I will, on the basis of Article 27, use about the topic used by my colleague Martinovic, of course in a slightly different way. We agree with the SRS that submitting the amendment is not an obstruction. We advocate that every MP actively participates in Parliament's work, among other things, and by submitting amendments, because I guess that means that he will read the bill first, and then he will be able to say something in the course of the debate in particular, i.e. the amendments. What we need to say is we don't have to count who has submitted the amendments. The fact is that there are a large number of amendments, but it is also a fact that because of the poor Rules of Procedure we cannot discuss in this part, so three days each we are discussing three or four members. And there are the largest number of amendments submitted by MPs to the ruling majority. Of course, we in the SRS, 22 of us, regularly and regularly submit so many amendments to each member, i.e. each MP, submits an amendment to a specific member. That's what government deputies do, only in a much larger number, and that's why the situation arises that we're actually discussing only three or four draft laws. Also, it should be noted that this mode of work was introduced from this side of the so-called. democratically, by former predominants and now newlyweds, that they had really pointless amendments at the time, because they submitted to each member the same amendment and they assigned that task, I end up, please, and now, they're tired, they no longer have the power to participate seriously in parliamentary life and then they blame everyone else who submits the amendments. In order for this to be regular, we repeat again - let us urgently change the Rules of Procedure and that we can really talk about what the subject of the agenda is. Thank you. Sorry about the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34214	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Miss Radeta: No.) What is it you want the word on? By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34215	I'll say it again. It is true that every MP has the right to submit an amendment, but if you look at it, the ruling majority submits several hundred amendments to the first members of the first law on the agenda. And of course, the first member, or first law on the agenda, is the law that, for example, has fewer reasons for political debate. Why, for example, the BIA Act isn't the first law on the agenda, it's the Military Education Act? So there's no need to explain to me that every MP has the right and that this isn't obstruction or I don't know what. At the very least, the matter is very simple, you have in the European Commission Progress Report that the ruling majority is obstructing parliamentary debate. Explain it to them. You don't have to explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34216	By amendment, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34217	I will speak the same way about the amendment as the previous speaker said, so nothing about this amendment, since you are allowed to continue to talk about whether all MPs have rights or some have rights, and some do not have to make amendments. At the time when you were in the parliamentary group that participated in the election and that was the DJB movement, that practice was started, which you are now talking about with such passion. I think it was one of the laws in the field of education, where Sasa Radulovic, and you were adept at helping him, giving his signatures, invested more than 100 amendments on one law with the same sentence. So no amendment, or amendment proposal, has corresponded to the matter that needs to be changed, because it is written a hundred times – textbooks must be free of charge for all children attending primary and secondary education. Something like that. It was so pointless to repeat something a hundred times, that we came into a situation that we had hesitated someone with your demagogue arguments here and that most MPs had pressed the button and voted for the law, or the bill would have been completely unthinked and we would have to go to a new adoption, because the matter on the right, which was supposed to change that amendment, did not fit that sentence on the left at all. And you have set an example that was democratically acceptable here and for MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia and for you who do not currently support it. We'll see, maybe in the future you'll change your mind. So, I don't see what's at stake right now, why shouldn't one number of MPs be putting amendments in order for others to put in amendments that, so far, have absolutely no, no connection with a matter represented by one of the laws? If you are already talking about this report, first, it does not say a sentence – the ruling majority is obstructing. It's someone of your interpretation. There are no sentences in the report. Those who wrote that report have a little more to do with the understanding of democracy than those who interpret a broad report, so they refrained from writing it, maybe thinking at home, they abstained, so on my question to the ambassador just to help me stop some MPs from investing in amendments, and to let others just invest, he said there was no solution. I've accepted that together, expertly we do it somehow. Perhaps countries that are EU members have different solutions, they may have some kind of ban in their own rules of procedure. He said he'd see, he'd think about it. It is best to criticise someone, teach our parliament a lesson about democracy, succumb to what they hear from you or from those in Belgrade who help them write the report. Believe me, the ambassador doesn't sit around and watch this all day long, and he doesn't follow how many parliamentary groups have tabled amendments that he doesn't. It certainly doesn't work. You can talk to him if you haven't talked to him by now. Therefore, something has been reported maliciously about the work of our Parliament, and we should help to make the picture of our parliament better, not to try to blacken the work in our parliament that is nothing more unquality than working in other countries. That's where they fight. If you want, take a look at what it looked like recently in the Parliament of the French Republic. They're headed for the chair table, I guess they wanted to discuss something with him, they were yelling at him for stealing two or three minutes, the police were standing in front of the chairman to physically protect him. Nothing here is going on dramatically different from the other parliaments. So please, when criticizing, give us some solution, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we have, because Article 38 says that we must work in a manner established by law and this Rules of Procedure. Give us a solution to this Rules of Procedure as to how one of them invests in amendments and the other one doesn't invest. Make a solution so we no longer consider a proposal to determine the agenda. That doesn't seem to bother you. At each beginning of the session, we have over 200 proposals to set the agenda on a regular basis, by emergency procedure, which means nothing. You claim these amendments mean nothing, so what are these proposals for the agenda? Now, if some MP seriously wanted some item of the agenda to be included, something that would essentially change the lives of the citizens that we represent, he would be understood as another 237th draft agenda and MPs who might intend to set something up, not to hold political sermons here and Hyde Park say, they refrain from it. So, make a suggestion on how to make sense of the agenda and how to give up some, and some propose amendments. Don't just stand up and say this isn't right, this isn't right, you won't let us talk. You have your time, MP Martinovic told you, so use it, so skip the time others use and then use your time for the point you want. Who's stopping you from talking now at your new club that's got six minutes, and it's artificial? I object that those who participated in the elections and those who did not participate in the elections end the will of the citizens and then get about six, 10, 15, 20, 50 minutes. Why? When citizens have never heard of you and your MP club, that you have six minutes at all? You were on the DJ list, you should have stayed there until the end and used your time on the Bill on BIA, which you have amendments to and talked to in the time that Serbian citizens gave you. You yourself know that you are in a non-existent political option that came in after a year and a half into parliament, it is now, and you are now asking us that SNS MPs no longer invest amendments to make you talk a little bit more, so that's absurd political. Show me a country in Europe, an EU member in which a precedent like this happens here in parliament. Right in those benches you're sitting in, except for DS and Dvery, who stayed in the authentic political option that took part in the election, so let's talk about who's taking the time? No, you got an extra six and a few minutes from zero as much as you had in the election, because you weren't even in the election. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34218	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34219	Did I get the right to a replica? I had a direct address. As for my legitimacy and my changes in the parliamentary group, with the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I would not compromise, since it is still known in our city for the number of political parties it has changed. There's also a nickname about it, but it's already urban legend, so I wouldn't go on with it. Of course, I'm not asking anyone to ban anyone from submitting amendments. I said, everyone has the right of MPs to submit any amendment they want. I have made an appeal and I will read an explicit sentence from the Progress Report that the European Commission has delivered to us. I read: “The effectiveness of the National Assembly in considering legislation was limited on certain occasions by the intentional functioning of the ruling coalition. ” I don't know. Can it be more explicit? Can't it be more direct and more specific? So it explicitly writes – the intentional functioning of the ruling coalition limits the National Assembly to consider laws on certain occasions. I don't know if it's more direct. That doesn't say the word "obstruction," okay. With regard to amendments which I was not the applicant, which have been declared obstructive here, you can dispute this with the applicant of the amendment. As for the amendments that I have been to, at the same session that was related to the education laws, I can freely invite everyone to read all these amendments that I submitted to the educational laws at the time, and I have no problem with that. I repeat, if someone has obstructed a parliamentary debate from my current, former, or, I don't know which, MP groups, feel free to argue with him, I have no problem. I'm not obstructing the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34220	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34221	Thank you very much. I don't know about the accidental operation... Ambassador, I'm speaking to you. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. You don't know what I'm going to say, whether there are conditions or not. It can't be understood freely. Don't take my time. So, you were on Saša Radulovic's list and until recently you were his MP, you did not stand up to say – President, MP groups, Mr Radulovic, do not obstruct Parliament's work and do not distract us here for two days with one and the same sentence. No, you were yelling at me here when I noticed that Sasa Radulovic wrote one and the same sentence on a hundred different members of the law. You were one of the loudest people here to threaten me and yell at me. I told you clearly, I spoke to Ambassador Fabrizio who brought me that report to look at him here. You didn't reveal the hot water in the report, believe me. All Serbian citizens can read it. He did not know the answer to the question of how to prohibit proposing amendments to one another, and to allow others, which are precisely MPs who can, and which are precisely MPs who cannot. He didn't know. He suggested that we work together, so we find some sort of solution in accordance with the laws of this country, of course, and the Rules of Procedure, since they don't have an institution to give to one MPs, regardless... What in God's name are MPs who are now not in favour of the government of the Republic of Serbia? Where does that say? Where does it say that one who won fewer votes has more rights than one who won more votes? Find me that. Where does it say that one MP is worth more than another MP? Because I'm saying that, and this is whether I'm famous in my town of Novi Sad for this or that political activity, is that your problem? Is that the problem of those citizens who are preparing to vote maybe for you... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... in some new political option? Believe me, no. They will think of you, and those who support you will never support me and I am very proud of that fact. I'm very proud, and those citizens of Novi Sad and even of Serbia who vote round me don't mind my name. I resent you a few of you from the opposition who showed me that there is this ease of criticizing others, and then doing almost the same. So it's a similar one. You've found your way into some strange parliamentary group and I wish you a lot of success in politics and I don't blame you at all. It's your choice and it's your personal right and you learn it in democracy, that it's a personal right of man and you don't need to get involved in it at all. I'm saying, my voters don't mind me, and I don't know why you have this problem that your act justifies that other people's acts are political. I don't have a thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34222	Thank you. One minute from the MP's time to withdraw. My friend Guric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34223	Thank you. I don't have a problem when anyone changes the political organization. It's not my place to give that grade. That's what the voters are talking about, and I don't have a problem with anyone submitting amendments, and you can forbid it by the Rules of Procedure. He's right, the ambassador who told you that he doesn't see a way to ban it. You can't ban it under the Rules of Procedure. As far as the proposal is concerned, the proposal is simple, the speaker of the assembly calls on the college, the heads of the parliamentary groups come, sit down and agree on how to make Parliament's work as efficient as possible. In this assembly, we've had this college not often enough, too rarely, maybe two or three times everything. It's a way to come to an agreement, because our job isn't here to pollute and measure sins or merits. Our job is to make the laws that come out of here as good as we can, so that people who live and work under these laws have as much better laws that produce as little slippery terrain and as few holes as possible, so that they have as much a circled legal framework as possible. It's a very simple and simple thing. I don't know which session I was so loud at and who I yelled at when I didn't have a single warning. If I was yelling, if I was loud, I'd probably get a warning. At least they're warning opposition MPs they're very easy to share. Let me tell you, not only can the number of votes won be a criterion for who has the right to speak in the National Assembly. You may have a small parliamentary group from the ruling coalition that has very little minutes, but whose MP has a really good and quality proposal how to fix a legal solution with some amendment. Maybe it's about a law whose amendments won't come to the agenda because we're going to spend ten hours of amendment time discussing the title and the first two members of the first law on the agenda. It is according to the Rules of Procedure and it is legal. Is it legitimate and how voters will appreciate it, then? I don't have a problem with these appeals to voters as ridiculous, as naive, and I don't get a vote in the next election. I don't have a problem with that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34224	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34225	The obstruction is mentioned only once in the report and that when former EU ambassador Davenport tried to present the report to lawmakers in the Committee on European Integration. I read as much as you read. I seem a little bit essential. There were not only MPs of the ruling majority who did not perform the obstruction, but refer precisely to MPs of different political options that are in opposition lines. It's the truth because you don't care. You've prepared your mantra today to tell us how we're obstructing, not you. We can also analyze the additions to the agenda, you're avoiding it. It's a major obstruction from which you can't even move on to concrete work and it doesn't bother you. The whole day of getting up MPs who don't talk about a proposal that wants to complete the agenda, often don't apply the law. They need not only that one piece of paper, but the law to apply when they ask for an addition to the agenda. That doesn't bother you. You sit down and press the button, and you don't know that only the first page of the draft agenda is proposed without the text of the law, because whenever you propose you have to re-propose the law. That doesn't bother you. So you're an MP who only sees one side. As President of Parliament, I see that you have begun obstruction, and this obstruction is not by making amendments that are allowed, but by devising an institution to supplement the agenda. I wouldn't have sex with you anymore. I really think we're gathered here to discuss the bill's proposals, not to discuss what you know I'm right, but you won't admit it, because you've decided – I'm the opposition, I'm always right, and the other side is never right, and I just don't want to listen. As children at the party, you press your ears and close your eyes and you think the problem has passed after a few seconds and open your eyes. It's not like that. (President: Bring the end. ) It is not easy to lead parliament, but I think 250 MPs are exactly the same in their rights and obligations, not just rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34226	This closes the circle of replicas. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. You have no right to a colleague named Đurić. (Vladimir Djuric: By amendment. ) According to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34227	Just one sentence. I respect the remarks made by the President of the Assembly that the opposition is of the opinion that the demands for amending and supplementing the agenda are also trying in a way to gain the time to present, that this is also a kind of manipulation of parliamentary law, but it cannot be me that it attributes, I do not have any such proposal submitted in the Assembly, so I did not use this right. I repeat another appeal - our job here is not to argue and to de-polize. Our job is to make these laws as good as possible, so that distinguished gentlemen officers tomorrow have quality laws to live by and work by and care for the safety of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34228	The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34229	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a good one and, if I may say, a useful debate with the abundance of amendments and the abundance of ideas. The government will adopt something, something won't adopt. It's everyone's law. I really don't know which parliament might boast of a higher degree of democracy, especially when we do not slip to the level of personal hatred and when the only argument is that the BIA law is bad because BIA Director Bratislava Gasic, and the only argument that some military law is bad because I am the defence minister. You'll admit that and it's not much of an argument and it's hard to accept it as a relevant thing. The truth is, all I wanted was for the position of a member of the army, just one very simple thing. The average professional soldier was at a time when we took responsibility for guarding Serbia's Army and its promotion had 33.308 dinars of net earnings. Today there are 38,895 dinars. The officer had 43,686 dinars, and today he has 51,975 dinars. The officer averaged 63,428, today 73,712 dinars. The average total military member made 43,101 dinars, and today 51,000 dinars. To this, of course, you must add diaries that have been increased in the meantime and various other receipts made by members of the Army. This is the language of numbers, and whenever we talk about arguments in the language of numbers, we'll have, I'm sure, a good and very useful debate. As far as the proposal for a name of the Law on Military Education, why not raise, the Law on Military Education is a general term. We cite members themselves and say that education within the meaning of this law involves secondary education and education and higher education. We've already put that on. Just to confirm once again, Alexander Vukic has fulfilled his promise. The morale was restored as a function within the army and the army again deals with its morals. Let me tell you that at a time when it was abolished, of course our officers rebelled against it, because the Serbian army had always had morals and always had officers who cared about morality and how it took care of it, and besides, as some of the honourable MPs spoke of it, the Serb soldier was also known for his morals. It should certainly be kept and preserved. It was then spoken to us at a time when the Army broke and abolished – why morals are abolished, it says – your moral values are disturbing and insulting your environment. Imagine that explanation that abolished morals and moral functions in Serbia's military. He's back now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34230	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34231	We have proposed that Article 1 be deleted for a simple reason that does not have any essential meaning because it is stated in this article that the objectives, principles of military education, specificities, etc. are regulated here. and then you go to the next members in particular – goals, especially – principles, so that it is so little burdensome for this legal text. We want to take this opportunity and your presence and your good will to communicate with the MPs, Mr. Vulin, to draw your attention to certain things and information, reliable, which we have, which are hidden from the public. In particular, this time and now I'm going to talk about the municipality of Kurzumli. In several shooting villages, just a few kilometers above the Lukovska spa in the villages of Mrča, there is a military base, I suppose you know that, then the villages of Sava, Trebinje, etc., the Shipari cross that administrative line every day, intersecting both private and state woods. Here are the photos of what it looks like. They're making roads. People are terrified there, they have no one to turn to, or whoever they turn to, they all lie to their shoulders, no one gets involved in solving that problem. There's a lot of noise and shooting in that part. The damage has been done from a total of up to 2m euros, by some estimates. There are many people of natural persons, private, whose forest it is and who are damaged by hundreds of thousands of euros and have no one to turn to in their own country, as if they do not have a state. There's often an army, police, and that's what the people see. But no one can officially mention it and no one can help these people who are in serious trouble. There's a big fear out there. People don't know what they're gonna do anymore. On the one hand, they charge them with a great deal of wood, and on the other hand, they make roads, and the Shipari comes to their doorstep, while on the third hand they have no one to turn to. There's a Lukovska spa, it's supposed to be a tourist center. So all that's going on down there is being guarded as some secret only of the municipalities of Kursumlia and only the residents who live there, and that's not the problem of the Kursumli municipality, that's the problem of the state of Serbia, Serbia's Army and the police of Serbia. So I ask you, Minister and all of you gentlemen, to take these and these things seriously and to find a solution. You're the government, you have to find a solution. The authorities must not lie their shoulders in front of citizens' problems. The government must not say, a representative of the government or local self-government, to tell someone -- I know, they cut your 200 thousand euros in forest, but what to do. If he doesn't know what to do, get out of the way. I ask you to help this people to free themselves from fear and don't let these problems cause them to get the hell out of the village of Kursumlia anyway, and even from the city itself, people move out, if they continue to lock their necks like this, they'll all run away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34232	Thank you. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34233	I thank the chairman. Respected citizens of Serbia, honored high-ranking officers, we can write and speak all sorts of things here, our actions speak of us. I think we're all deeply aware, whether we admit it or not, that the church and the army are the last line of defense of this country in which all state institutions collapse, and very quickly. Therefore, the military and especially military education is our salvation. Honestly, I was wondering why there was no rebellion in the military because of all the humiliations that you had to endure, starting with the human resources, NATO lobbyists, the financial problems that you've all been brought into, and then I realized that you're actually as responsible, as I am that every evil knows the measure and the end, and in fact dedicated to your work, to persevere and to ensure that this country has continuity, both in the military and its obligations to the people, and in education. I'm giving you deep respect for that. I haven't consulted with any ambassadors, anyone from abroad, I've received for my parliamentary work an instruction from a general and I thank him for that. I know he's regularly following all the congregation meetings, and I welcome him and I thank him and all of you. I want to point out that in 2014, we saw in the floods how much the military was actually committed, how much more responsible they were even than the citizens themselves who were threatened. And for that, thank you very much. So I am convinced that you yourself, because you are in this session and realize that you are left to yourself, find the right way to preserve your dignity, to provide us with a youth in the Army who will be able to continue what you have done, and more and better. Thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34234	Thank you. By amendment, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34235	Thank you very much. I would only ask you, as chairman, to ask a Member who explains this amendment what she was going to say in any way in this explanation? I am very willing to support some amendment of the opposition, any one, when they convince me that it essentially changes the text of the law. Somehow, I chose my colleague Janjusevic, as the most appropriate MPs, and we're colleagues, so I might hear what she has to say, so I can support her. But I didn't understand anything about her. Here, and MPs around me are willing to support some opposition amendment today, but I didn't understand anything. If a general has given her instructions for this amendment, then I am very concerned about the fate of the Republic of Serbia Army, in whose hands it is, and I am concerned about how the MPs are getting me, and for this general, what its capacity is when he gives instructions to the MEPs Janjusevic that such an amendment, which no one lives here understands what it wants, eventually supports. Because the purpose of the argument is not to overshadow the officers present here, or to impress the Secretary of Defense with your ability to amend the bill, the purpose of the amendment is to convince us, most of it, to support that amendment. And you said here that a general gave you instructions for your actions, I don't know what it was, because no one here understood you, because you don't know how to explain the amendment, and that our Army is left to itself. And that's an ingenious finding, and I think that now Serbia is deeply concerned that you're out there today, and people are already evacuating and leaving the country, because the Army is on its own. Therefore, there is obviously no intention here that most MPs from the opposition and us who do most of us who support the government really and support this amendment, rather than just stand up and say anything and say anything at least say what our old generations would say. So, anything at all, at least who, at least what. Those are the famous words of our grandparents, and you've obviously doctored it here. So, what general gives you instructions from the Serbian Army? It's a shame for an army, to have generals sneaking around, giving instructions to opposition MPs to write meaningless amendments and even more pointlessly to explain them, and that the Army is left to itself. I'm really worried about you. I want to meet this general and talk to him, see if he's okay these days. Thank you very much, but we cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34236	According to the amendment, the People's MP Marija Janjusevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34237	The replica, so there's no confusion, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34238	You have no right to a replica. If you want, you can ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34239	According to the Rules of Procedure, since you've decided that, even though I'm mentioned by name and last name, I have no right to a replica. I'm pretty sure we got along just fine. I'm glad I'm not understood by those who have long stopped understanding their people... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34240	You didn't list a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34241	Maybe he's the hottest member of 108. - you take care of the order at this session. I would ask you not to be so shy when it comes to warning the MPs not to speak directly. It has already been several times before to address each other directly, and not you, as the Rules of Procedure says, so I would ask you to do your job properly and not be afraid or shy, because I can't really find a third explanation. I'm with my people, I'm with the military, and I'm sorry if it bothers anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34242	I apologize for being shy of nature. There, I broke the Rules of Procedure, I accept. A colleague of Gojkovic's after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34243	To clarify the amendment, since I see that your Serbia is excited about this amendment, because you say you understand well with our citizens that only you represent here of 250 MPs. Well done! As an MP who's been here for decades, I seem to represent the Eskimo, but it doesn't matter. I guess they'll go to the election, too. You know what your amendment reads? You replaced two words - planning and organising and organising and planning, so you said that these instructions were given to you by the general of the Serbian Army to write it and to perform it today and that the army was left to itself. I guess it's because she hasn't made an inversion of words – planning and organising and organising and planning. It's essential to this law. I ask the MPs of the ruling majority this time, because without us, we can't isolate this, to think about it until the day of the vote, this is an ingenious amendment that will change the essence of military education, and at all after the adoption of this amendment, the army won't suddenly be left to itself and we'll make a big contribution, and we'll also help that general who writes those amendments get a little better by the next law, so he can write us something more meaningful. If that general exists at all, and I don't think he exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34244	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Vesović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the Serbian Army, Mr. Minister, we have just heard that the chairman is not shy, and I, thank God, am not timid, so I do not see that my amendment will fall into the group, as my colleagues in power, have said, in the dim or meaningless amendments. It is a member of the 1st Law, which is probably first accepted by me by all the laws that go before the National Assembly and which I would first vote for. And that's the problem, which is what's best put in place right now for us here to get our political outsmarts and, to be picturesque, to use the talking, not to talk about something that's important. But it's such a possibility and it's not an obstruction, I don't share my colleagues' opinion, I think it's more a demonstration of the power of those who are more numerous, feel more powerful, and that's their right. But, I say, glory to the Lord and to today's St. Nicholas with wire and Ohrid and all-Serb, I am not afraid, so that demonstration of power I do not feel terrible about myself. What have I changed in this amendment? I added one word. Yes, I have only added one word, and above that, “specificity ” goes to“ characterism. ” It may seem so illogical to you, but I have to explain to you what specificity means, and what it means to be characteristic. Specificity is diversity, it is uniqueness and individuality. Characteristics is a sign of protection, she's a mark, she's famous. That's why I think the Law on Military Education should be both a mark and a mark and a characteristic. That makes perfect sense. Now I, using the wealth of the Serbian language, have to explain and explain this so I don't, I say, in that story and I'm really surprised that those who have read this amendment, if they have read it at all, are also talking to Mr. Vulin, who at the moment has not given me answers to those questions, so there is definitely a difference, a specificity and a characteristic. I think because of the importance of this law, this word should find its place in the first member. I tried to brief you on what it was, and I'd like to know why this was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34246	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34247	The Honorable Chairman and distinguished colleagues from the ruling majority and other fellow MPs, you could only look at the reasons of our amendments and you would understand what their goal was. It clearly states that this amendment leads to better and better quality regulation of important issues under the Law on Military Education. We are, in fact, someone who likes to learn from fellow Members of the people. Since every law is subject to 300 and 400 amendments, we've simply seen how it's done by you. We do not hide it, we have learned from the better, from the best, from those who are the best, from those who have the most MPs, and if they write meaningless amendments, then so do we. If your amendments are meaningful and good, believe me, and ours are great because they look up to you. So that every one of you who throws a stone at our amendments may first consider what kind of amendments he writes, and then report afterwards. As for the very Law on Military Education itself, I would like to point out, in order to educate and train new officers and soldiers of the Serbian Army in general, we must first protect the reputation of the Serbian Army. Mr. Minister has so bravely avoided answering my very simple question -- how many thousands of Serbian Army soldiers have left the Serbian Army in the last few years? Mr. Minister, why is that such a difficult question? How will you educate new generations if you run away from the existing generations because of your poor material status, because of the unresolved housing issue, because of the humiliation of the army, because of the harassing of the Military Union, because of the persecution of the President of the Military Union of News Antic? List here, in front of Serbian citizens how many thousands, I am not talking about tens and hundreds, about thousands of Serbian military members have left Serbia's Army in the past few years. Mr. Chairman, allow me, I will use the time of the head of the parliamentary group to further explain what I have now to say. So, we changed, retired, humiliated the war officers of the Serbian Army. We cut out the Serbian Army budget in every way, weapons and equipment, the total shot and everything we could do. I'm talking about all the authorities from 2000 to today. Now the question arises, how do you direct young people into military education, into military education, to the military when there are so little acceptances of soldiers by contracts, when that attitude of the state towards the Military Union, when the military cannot have that status that should be in this society and state? So, what's so terrible, Mr. Minister, to respond to the letters sent to you by the Military Union, to investigate affairs, crime and corruption at the top of the military and the Ministry of Defense that they point to? Is that a taboo topic of crime and corruption in the military? Yeah, there's crime and corruption in the military. Someone also steals from Serbia's military and the Ministry of Defense, and you are told by honorary officers, soldiers who belong to the Military Union, and who know well that no serious army in the world needs a military union. When the army is satisfied, when the army has good income, when the army is existentially secure, when the army has a settled housing issue, then there is no and no need to have a military union. But in our country, where the army is humiliated, where it is for such small incomes, where it is such a difficult existential state, where thousands of military members have left the Army of Serbia and how the military union is needed. That is why he has the support of the Serbian Dvori Movement. At normal times, there should be no military or police union in a healthy state, because the state government cares about the existence and functioning of these two most important security apparatus of a state, which is the military and police. So I'm asking you not to run away from the answer. How many thousands of Serbian military members have left Serbia's army in the last few years? When is such a good situation, when you're such a good minister, when Bratislav Gasic was such a good minister, when you changed five ministers from Aleksandr Vukic to today, when it's so good, that soldiers flee from the army? What are thousands of them firing and leaving military service? What are they running into peace operations all over the world to get bigger money? So don't pretend you haven't heard my questions a few times. The other thing, you mentioned, and I welcome you and support you in everything you do well, tell me, when something that was good we didn't support publicly? Did we support military co-operation with Russia and Belarus? Did we support that this country should not enter NATO? Did we support the establishment, the minister spoke about it, a research centre that will finally analyse the consequences of NATO bombing Serbia? All that's good, you'll always have our support. We also supported the Serbian Army's top military officers returning to be lecturers at the Military Academy, but not only to be lecturers at the Military Academy, Mr. Minister, but to the active military service to return. Top Serb officers with military experience, who went through all the country wars from 1991 to 1999, to return to active military service, not just for occasional lecturers at the Military Academy. Tell me, what army of the world would give up their services? Tell me, why is it that one of them is not a military minister today, but is it you? You have more experience than war ministers, you know a better army, you're more capable than them, you serve an army?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34248	What direction is your discussion going? The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34249	The party is mentioned, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Of course, I'm not going to go into an analysis now of whether whoever submits the amendments, how he pleads himself to say something, can do it the way we do it and whether we don't know it or not, it's just his thing. You asked yourself the direction, Mr. Chairman, so I'll be free to answer. That's the direction of empty speech, which results in, as it were, 2.2% in the election. So when it's done that, that's how it goes. It's a big reaction here because of some things that are essentially wrong, and they're spoken. Since 2000, it has been said to be harmful to the military to this day. It's impossible to compare the period when this damage was actually caused, and that's what we've talked about here and we'll talk about as many times as it takes, and this period today, when that same army of equipment is getting both uniforms and weapons and technique, when we're getting new planes, when we're getting new armored tank transporters. So, is that destroying? Well, it won't be, it's all the opposite of that. The one who can't figure out whether to praise it yesterday, and the attack today is even with something else, can't expect more than that 2.2%. It's much more wrong for him to forget to notice that this devastation occurred in the time of those with whom he's getting along very well today, with whom he's taking pictures, jointly calling to vote for his option, with whom he's evened out. None of us did. They themselves said that they are equating themselves in a national and patriotic sense with Vuk Jeremic and other members of that former regime of yours that have destroyed an army, which today is admired by God, and in fact only acts, like every time, these officers have persecuted those people who are political allies to him today, these people who funded him, these people who drowned the tanks, these are the people that I've leveled with. If he wants to talk about the army, always keep an eye on himself, he's equating himself with the worst of the worst, with those he's complaining about today as something he's criticizing today. He's criticizing himself, trying to transfer something to us. If we're going to talk about crime and corruption, it's up to us to go, to look at those who are allies today and to look at their own party. (President: Bringing the end, colleague Orlic.) That's what I end up with, Mr. Chairman. The one who steals from his own party today, he won't hesitate to steal from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34250	The People's MP, Bosko Obradovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34251	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you must understand that the role of the opposition is criticism of the authorities and that we commend part of the good things you do does not mean that you do all the good. For example, if you have made good military strategic co-operation with Russia and Belarus and we commend it, it does not mean that the status of a Serb soldier is good today, it is bad. His receipts are disastrously small. Thousands of soldiers leave the Serbian Army. So these are facts, I'm not making it up. If you claim to be me, again I tell you, we learn from the best, we learn from the best drama artist among Serbian politicians, Alexander Vukic, don't defend me. I want to perfect myself as an actor, and I want to be a good actor like our president. Why would he be a top actor? We all want to play politicians and politics then. So don't say that. The same applies to amendments. I told you nicely, before you start talking about other people's amendments, look at your amendments. Look at 400 of your amendments that don't make any sense, which your parliamentary assembly committees have refused you, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has refused you, and thus showed that you don't know how to write amendments, because you wouldn't be denied by someone all the time. Thousands of your amendments have been rejected, and you still tolerate them, which says you have no idea you're writing amendments. The second and most important thing is finally that solution with the former regime. I don't know how good that former regime is, when you take its members into your ranks, when you take Nebojsa Krstic, Sinisha Mali, Jelena Trivan, then they're great members of the former regime, and then DS probably works. Whoever moves over to you and who sells his mandate to the SNS, then he's a good member of the former regime. I don't see who's been defending you for the past six years to finally get those who robbed this country in the last 30 years, who's defending you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34252	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34253	That's what it looks like when someone wants to compete, and they don't know what they're gonna do when they get up. So I didn't mention anyone's amendment here. I said at the very beginning, the first sentence was that – I will not comment at all and then a minute about some of ours etc. Waste of time, ladies and gentlemen. What we heard here, and what is essential, said man – he wants to be like Alexander Wolf. Well, that's the point -- it will, but it can't, there's no way. So while he's doing this, while he's saying things like this, there's no way. If he didn't understand it from two election cycles, in one he got 2.2% in his name and last name, and in the second, in the broadest possible coalition his associates and political mentors called him an anti-natural fornication, a fantastic 3.7%, he'll never learn anything, never, ladies and gentlemen. If we're talking about acting stuff, I beg you, we're the worst in the world, you can't think of us, you can't understand what we're better than anyone, and then what are you offering? What, then, did you pray through the media, publicly, to make a coalition with us in the city of Chačka? But unfortunately for you, you have met with a firm view that we will not cooperate with people who have no political essence, who have one single idea, but healthy, concrete, useful for society. We will not cooperate with those for whom politics is a matter of personal benefit, which has proved to be true. A moment ago, we said well - those who persecuted those honorable Serbian officers are the same people who funded those who are now disgusted and rebelling, the same you. Was Dragan Gilas one of the most important powers of the regime that persecuted these officers? Yes, it is. Is Dragan Gilas just the one who has personally touched and financed himself in the city of Belgrade to draw him away from the competition, SNS voters? Well, it is. Are those the same, but the same, the same, the day they hug and kiss, those pretty white shirts, they pose together in some squares, the stage and whatnot, with those same ones? What, after all, they will, when they draw a line, what is their message? They're hoping for something to happen, so I end up, Mr. Chairman, that all of us together in this nation are going to swallow amnesia and forget who they are and what they are. Well, we never will. We see well and you remind us every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34254	Thank you. A colleague named Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34255	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Article 158(2). The total time of the search in particular for the parliamentary groups is allocated to the parliamentary groups by a proportion of the number of MPs of that parliamentary group. Several fellow MPs in their presentations this morning said they would use the time foreseen for the authorised representative of their parliamentary groups. Mr. Obradovic just said the same thing to his colleague Milojic. However, in the light of the e-parliament system, I note that the system shows that all parliamentary groups from time to time provided for their authorised representatives and from the time foreseen for the presentation of the Members of the MPs of these parliamentary groups have spent, in letters and numbers, zero minutes. Therefore, the system of e-parliament for some reason does not show the time spent for representatives of parliamentary groups and MPs members of these parliamentary groups, so I ask you to ask through the Secretary-General for an explanation of what it is, because the time provided for the applicants of the acts is accounted for at the same time. Therefore, the system of e-parliament for some reason does not show the time spent for representatives of parliamentary groups and MPs members of these parliamentary groups, so I ask you to ask through the Secretary-General for an explanation of what it is, because the time provided for the applicants of the acts is accounted for at the same time. The Honorable Minister Vulin spoke not for three minutes, and the system accounted neatly for two minutes and 52 seconds, and he also calculated 32 minutes of 600 scheduled for discussion in particular of the so-called Amandan times. There's obviously something wrong with the e-parliament system and the timing. It would not be good for this respectable home if, as the debate takes place, we would be in a position to declare the remaining time for MPs on the basis of someone's hand-measured or some special record. And yet we have an expensively paid system of electronic data processing and time records for discussion, so it would be good if this problem were removed, I suggest you set up a break, you have the full right to do it by the Rules of Procedure, that the figures that differ from zero appear here, because I think we've spent a few of us here breaking through those two amendments minutes, and I can see that it's not from any amount of time calculated, because I say zeroes stand here, I've refreshed the screen several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34256	Comrade Djuric, I understand that as a political party that came with tweets to the Serbian Parliament, which is a credible time on the e-parliament. You spoke as authorized, for the first time, one minute and eight seconds, the second time 53 seconds, the third time 40 seconds. What you want, you can look for with someone else. You've received information about how much time you've spent, whether it's on the e-parliament or not, absolutely. For stopping the meeting, we won't. It's not even expensive to pay for that system, our system is electronically obsolete because of the austerity measure, we can't renew it, but it works and meets its purpose and role. As for the other objections you've had? That's all. You have received information and something else, the deputy secretary general keeps records, leads employees from the Bureau of Preparation of Sessions and Water Recorders, i.e. persons dealing with stenograms. So, in more places, you take care of the time you spend. So the e-parliament is something that's just an auxiliary, you know. You have a GPS navigation, if it tells you it's the wrong way, you're going to ask to proceed right, you can't, it's an auxiliary. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? Yeah, okay. By amendment, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34257	Thank you, Mr. President, we didn't understand you, either, about the GPS system and how you explained to the MP how time counts. I'll tell you, the last time there was a general chaos around the time, the secretary general, who had been replaced, had reset the system and I have written it, so she did it, and you all deliberately defended it when we suggested that it be replaced. What happened now, since we have hand-counting, will easily come to a solution and if the error is corrected. I hope I was... Yes, it is, whether in agreement with you or on its own, I'm more interested in it, it's been replaced, like the others. Don't yell at your co-workers whenever you enter the O.R. in the afternoon. As regards the amendment, the amendment states to Article 1 that it is necessary to replace the words "targets and principles" in "principles and objectives" or vice versa, and the promoter himself said the amendment was pointless. Now I don't know if it's meaningful or pointless, I don't want to go into it, it's their right to propose and change words in order however they like. Some other things are making me sick here. First, if the MP knows that thousands and thousands of Serbian military members have left Serbia's Army, then I don't know why he asks the minister to confirm it. The minister can't confirm it either, because thousands and thousands of members of the Serbian Army didn't leave the army safely, but when it does, let him of that ingenious general who advises them tell us, therefore, the exact number of Serbian military members who have left the military over the past few years. So, the time when Mr. Sutanovac was Minister of Defence doesn't count, we amnesty him because we know what was going on at the time and how many were really driven out of the Army of Serbia, especially those who participated in the defence of the former Yugoslavia. During the NATO bombing, they were undesirable, so they must have left the Army of Serbia at least voluntarily and gone to work as bakers and I don't know what they're already doing, so ask one of your coalition partners how many were there and how many were driven out of Serbia's Army. Someone was told you'd go voluntarily, and someone realized that it was no longer his place when the defence minister became both that gentleman and the DOS took over. About the principle... You weren't there, so don't yell at me, you don't know what we talked about in the previous discussion. This is the answer to that question that is absolutely unknown, thousands and thousands were not there, ask the MP who is sitting next to you, she has this information from the generals of the army, so she will get it to you without the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for the formation of a union, I don't know what that has to do with the objectives and principles, but it doesn't matter, we're talking about the military now in general. Well, tell me, since you said that you supported agreements with the Russian Federation and with Belarus, in the area of our army's co-operation with these two states, whether there's a union, here's just to look up to the union organization in the armies of the countries you're interested in cooperating, whether there's such a union in the Russian Federation and whether there's such a union in Belarus, and then we'll move on to those countries that you're not interested in supporting us in co-operation. I'm just curious. It's very interesting to know which states the unions exist in. I am absolutely against the union organisation in the Serbian Army, and I would say little of that to the police because I do not know what the purpose of the union organisation is in the security systems of a sovereign state. But that's my attitude, it doesn't even have to match the attitude of the party I belong to. I am absolutely opposed to the union organization in the Serbian Army. You can shoot me when there's a change of government, take me out for the shooting first, because I don't agree. In all other ways, members of the Serbian Army can fight for their union rights without those certain internal and military organisations, because where there is a union, there is immediately dozens and there is no state, so it will not be in Serbia, I sincerely hope. The third thing you said was that you kept honoring the Secretary of Defense, whether he served the army or didn't serve the army. Obviously, you don't know much about politics. So, at the head of the military, or that government revoir, the Ministry of Defence, it's customary in democratic states of the world to be civilians. In the vast majority of countries these have been women lately. None of these women, I can make examples of you, if you're interested, have served as an army. So, you can't honor me, for example, for my political ambitions to be a minister of defense somewhere in the future. The only question is whether I have the political ability and the skill to implement the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy in that portfolio. So my mission or the task of any woman or any man who didn't serve the army is not to hold a gun, to know that I'm breaking up a tromble, if that's what I'm calling it, or if I don't know that I'm dealing with martial arts and tactics, my job would be like the Secretary of Defense, Vulin or XYZ, to conduct the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the defence, period. You don't need military service at all, and maybe I'm one of some who'd just serve a military deadline and think they'd be able to do it right now and qualify them to run this facility, I guarantee that even in that sector, I'm going to make you look dark. Don't point that out as an argument. It certainly doesn't work out for you, and if I were a better, more skilled politician than some people who think only that you wear a shirt, you say I served the army, a prerequisite for being a minister of defense, then a policeman would be a minister of health, a painter or a ballerina would be culture ministers, they would devise politics, because it would then be a set of professional associations that would run the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, you forget that argument, only if you want to insult someone with such cheap initiatives in front of a bar that someone's messing around, so he says, "Yo didn't serve the army, so we're laughing like a little bit." It's essentially politics that doesn't have any touch. And I suggest we consider your amendment carefully whether or not to change the order of words. I'm in. In all the amendments where we change the order of words, it will improve the position of the Serbian Army, definitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34258	I beg your pardon, colleague Obradovic? You have no right to a replica. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34259	Thank you, Chairman, I am truly grateful to my colleague Maji Gojkovic, who obviously had to come down here among us ordinary mortals with great heights of the chairman of the National Assembly, because there is no one else in the SNS to defend the position of SNS on these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34260	Excuse me, can I ask you what height it is? Chairman of what level does the session or the president of parliament run from? (Bosko Obradovic: I didn't understand the question. No, I didn't understand you. You were just talking offensively about the vice presidents and the president of parliament, that we were something like MPs different from you? That's what you just said, and we didn't. (Bosko Obradovic: So you are the chairman. Just the chairman and nothing else. Here you go. You're looking for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34261	Mr. Chairman, you have the right to interrupt me at any moment when you do not like my speech, it is not disputed. So, I accept that, that's the rules of the game until we change them. So, it's really very important what the distinguished colleague Maja Gojkovic was talking about, because she pointed out the very essence of the collapse of our society and the state, which is the interference of politicians in what is not their profession, which they don't know they're doing, what they're never trained for, educated like, say, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. He never had anything to do with the Army of Serbia and the security and defence system had nothing to do with it, nor did he. But someone estimated that he would be a good defence minister, and he has been here for minutes and hours to avoid answering a very simple question -- how many Serbian Army members have left Serbia's military? Here I will help him with a quote, just from a statement by the Serbian Military Union that he refuses to accept and talk to them, although they are very representative and serious, which has warned of false promises that politicians from the authorities make about building cheap apartments for members of the security service. So we're gonna school someone, and then we're gonna put him in the military service, but we're never gonna solve his housing issue. Here's what it looks like. There is no more subject to be discussed and loudly announced and abused in depraved political marketing, the Serbian Military Union said, rather than building cheap apartments for members of the security service. Politicians' announcements have already built 17,400 apartments for members of Serbia's military, the MUP and security services at 500 euros per square metre, and the situation is such that for years later, no aces in the country were stabbed, let alone a single apartment of the 17,000, 18,000, 18,000. The last term for the start of construction according to the announcements of competent minister Zorana Mihajlovic was March of the month in six cities, and now May is the month, Mr. Minister, and no ace has been stabbed in any of the six cities to build housing units for members of the security service. Will you keep that quiet and avoid answering anything about it? We do not know whether this commission for the preparation of the proposal knows that the season of construction works has begun recently and whether certain ministers, politicians, their halls, say the Serbian Military Union, are playing with a prominent institution that the people most trust in is paralysing with the construction of cheap apartments that are all, but they are not. So for 30 years, Serbian politicians have ruined everything they've reached, without including representatives of representative unions, etc. Hence, we expect, with full right, that through this program of construction, who knows which path promotes corruption, robbery with locations for construction, senseless propaganda that has been going on for years and finally, the most brutal abuse of their assignment. We already suspect that the first in line for the keys would be all half-trons, careerists, air-conditioned and corrupters from the General Staff, the Ministry of Defence, as well as other security services, as the newest housing rule in the Serbian Army is thus made, of course, behind the back of the representative union, says in a statement yesterday, Serbia's Military Union. So, Mr. Minister, these are very simple questions. What happened to the apartments? You promised them two, three, four years ago, you promised them again last year, and you said the work was on March 1st, and now it's May 1st, no papers. How many thousands of members of the army have left the Army of Serbia, how many wartime officers have you returned to the active composition of the Serbian Army? How many of them did you bring back as lecturers at the Military Academy? These questions are simple. Did the cat eat the tongue, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34262	I'd just ask without kittens and puppies in the National Assembly. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34263	Dear Chairman, I call for a violation of article 107. As we had the opportunity to see in the past minutes that this debate on amendments by MP Obradovic was totally unthinked and the only goal was to attack Minister Alexander Vulin. The same Obradovic, when Minister Vulin became Director of the KIM Office, attacked him for not being with KIM, and Minister Vulin led the office better than anyone before him. When he became Minister of Labour and Social Policy, there was a question of why he was not a social worker, and the minister of labour and social policy, and for the shortest time possible, made an extremely large number of decisions, and he did a great deal for the ministry itself and much more than the ministers had done before, and therefore when he took over the leadership of the migrant crisis as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Boška Obradovica party, attacked him to know nothing about migration, and the whole world confirmed that it was Minister Vulin and Republika Srpska that they were the most successful in managing the migrant crisis. And it is not Bosko Obradovic's problem, I know that he is nervous at the moment, as Milos Stojkovic is in the building, the trustee of the Hilandar monastery, the man who witnessed everything Bosko Obradovic did, swore on the Hilandar monastery and how he cheated on the monks by Hilandar. By the way, Milos Stojkovic is there with the best theology students from Thessaloniki, a man who can't get Bosko Obradovic into the hallway, can't look him in the eye, as he won't be able to look into many Serbian citizens very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34264	Comrade Torbic, it is perfectly legitimate that every MP attacks whoever the minister wants, and it is an important way, whether it is done by argument or fiction. I can't know that. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Right to the replica? According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34265	So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure and several members 103, 107 and 108. It is truly sad if we have no argument, but to draw the greatest sanctity of the Serb generation in a story. So, the whole story about the bans on going to Hilandar, the theft of the Hilandar monastery, it's so pointless that here I am measuring every word, that when I talk about the sanctuary, I'm not saying something I shouldn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34266	So, my colleague Vesovic, I must interrupt you before you continue, as you started your discussion, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, well, you just declared your colleague Obradovic sacred, because no one attacked Hilandar, but Bosko Obradovic. (Dragan Vesovic: I am directly offended. Please. (Dragan Vesovic: My religious feelings have been attacked. No one attacked any religious institution. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Right to replica, Minister Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34267	Thank you. As always, you know, without argument you go into personal hatred and that's all you have to say and if you notice my esteemed eloquents start quietly, quietly, and eventually start waving their hands and acting very inappropriately, I guess that's the excitement of how time goes by. Well, it's a pleasure that they're on TV, it's so exciting for them to be like that, but, well, what do we do? You know, things are, of course, very clear. Is the military position good? No, I don't. Is he much better than he was? Yeah. And it's very simple. Are the men from the army leaving? Yeah. Are they leaving less than they were leaving? Yeah. Did someone drive them out of the army? No, I don't. No one. I can't tell you the exact information, not because I don't have it, I have it, but there are things that aren't said in public transmission, as you know, but it doesn't matter, it's more important to you that you think you get some point, but if it's useful for the Army... Who cares about the Army? As for the union, and how they worked with each of these laws and were familiar with each of the laws, gave their observations, regularly met with them. Unions dealing with politics and who directly, publicly support certain parliamentary candidates, I am not exactly sure that they are the object and example of impartiality, but that is their right. Of course, in no way am I angry, nor are you to be angry at me for having my own attitude and thinking differently. Let me just say that in earlier years, when it was silent about it, when no unions even knew if they existed, let alone said, that in 2005, for the purposes of service, it was expelled 1,188 soldiers, that in 2006, it was 1.155 soldiers. They're these wartime officers, the warring army that was evicted by order, and then apparently there wasn't much to talk about. You know, whether someone served or didn't serve the army, I, as you know or not, graduated from the highest military school in this country. These are the High Security and Defence Studies. Of course it doesn't mean anything to you, but it means a lot to me, as the military does, and I'll remind you that in civil countries, civilians are here to secure the biggest budget and implement politics, I did it. I'm sure you're happy about that, thank you. Let me remind you that, for example, the defence minister was General Veljko Kadjevic, so I didn't quite notice that it was a great benefit for the military under his command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34268	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34269	For mentioning the party. Ladies and gentlemen of some interesting grudges, is anyone allowed to do anything but in the opinion of certain highly respected and respected here is understood or professional. If we were to introduce such a criterion in one of my humble courts, some here would not have the right to deal with anything in life. I think they're highly professional and capable of anything. Anyway, on the subject of whether something ate his tongue. If we're talking at that level, I can't help but look back at the case that left me such a striking mark in that very sense. A situation where something looks fresh or eats a tongue. Whenever I am a certain great author of some column, inscriptions, whatever, literary compositions in the Latvian magazine "New Iskra", whenever I asked him face to face to face to face to say about these writings, do you know what the answer was? Muk. It's a bound language. Something seems to have eaten his tongue then. Until I hear any answer – yes, I wrote, but I regret it or – yes, I wrote it, but I still don't regret it, I will continue to hold this case as the best example of a tied language or language that has eaten something. Speaking of languages that have eaten something, I watch here a newspaper article has been here since 27 April 2016, he says – we are ready to co-operate with SNS in Cačka. And guess whose picture? If it wasn't similar to the one who claims that SNS is the worst thing in the world, that it can't think of it at all, and it looks like it wants some kind of co-operation and saving for it here, but as we said, not so long ago, there's maybe ten minutes of ceiling, it's not going to be offered to people who don't have anything to offer, not people who are just pests, not people whose personal interest is the only motive for dealing with politics. Until we hear if that's the case, if they've changed their minds, and this is going to be a very good example of a tied language. After all, like those great examples of funding by the former regime, so it doesn't forget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34270	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34271	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's not run away, as the Serbian language professor says, we won't run away. I have to remind you of 2005 and 2006, because the speaker here spoke a variety of irregularities. There was a "Colubara" there that gave 50,000 euros to an Orthodox, humanitarian call as you wish to an organization, according to me, hidden political activists Velimir Ilic and Vojislav Kostunica. At the time, you all remember, Erosa A and Erosa B, that's when my colleague ran to the library because he saw the Martian proproma, a little peeked out, burned down two mosques just to show that we were worse than the ones that burned down there, I don't know how many hundreds of churches and then ran to the Chacan Library, got 50,000 euros and didn't ask the question of Satellite. Be careful, Marovic met, Tadic, and I think Djukanovic, three Montenegrins, decided to buy the Satellite, but to sign Davinic and pay for it from Serbia's budget, the prime minister was Kostunica and kept quiet. He caressed the Cat Draju. This one caressed cat Dražu, this one fled to the Chacan Library, and an affair worth 45m euros, it seems to me we paid 37m. It's like 1,400 apartments for our army. Did you, gentlemen of the army, miss those 1,400 soldiers who had been drunk, drunk and charged by the Colubara to keep quiet? It's an affair. At a time when we barely counted 30,000 soldiers, when we sold everything that could be sold, melted everything that could be melted, we decided that people would buy 30,000 uniforms. We had so many soldiers. Then on 30,000 uniforms they bought, made a contract, 69,000 helmets and 69,000 vests. For every soldier in two helmets, for every soldier in two vests and wonders, he was silent there. The cat's over fine. This one received 50,000 euros from Kolubara. Everyone's happy. Again, Serbia pays, Montenegrins sign, phone sessions, as I recall, have decided on it. Now let me tell you, those 300m euros for the purchase of these powerful helmets for the soldiers we didn't have, 69,000 vests for the soldiers we didn't have, come on, 30,000 uniforms could, that was worth 300m euros. Recalculated to apartments, that's 14,000 apartments for our soldiers. Would you gentlemen of the Army be pleased with the 14,000 troops? Would you at least be pleased that he who loved the Cat Dražu and anointed him when he came to Kostunica, would be better informed of some of the NGOs, the diaspora, etc. I believe that you would be pleased. So don't be surprised when some man there takes an oath on the Three Hand, breaks it, and then everyone calls it the Holy Christmas Left Hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34272	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34273	Thank you. Somehow, we would like to return to the amendment tabled and tabled on Article 1 which is required to replace the order of words – objectives and principles and principles and objectives. I'd like to complete my discussion an hour ago with data on a union organization that, of course, has nothing to do with this amendment, but in today's discussion, we couldn't even hear anything that justified the motion to rotate these two words, replace them. The union organization appeared in Serbia's Army just in the fall of 2012 when final government was changed in the Republic of Serbia through the will of citizens. It's one piece of information like that to me as a common citizen of this country very interesting. It is very interesting that someone then realized that they were organizing a union in the Serbian Army as if union problems and positions of one or another had not been problematic in some way before. It seems that then the union organization was unnecessary or forbidden. We can go to history for a little while, and let's see. I think someone might have helped someone figure out they were having problems in the military in the fall of 2012, when it was seen that they weren't coming almost autumn some year, when DOS members would again lead Serbia's army, God forbid. Since you do not know the information where everything is not allowed, or strictly legal norm, forbidden union organisation in the military, here I will tell you what the EU Member States are, and those others, with whom you declaredly, as you say, support co-operation with them. So, in the French Republic - forbidden, in Great Britain - forbidden, in Iceland - forbidden, in Latvia - forbidden, in Estonia - forbidden, in Belarus, the Russian Federation, Italy, Romania, BiH, they are not present in Germany. There is no union in the Serbian Army, etc. If you had discussed this, I would have found more countries where union organization is forbidden and it's not in the military system just as forbidden. It's not ballet school. It is an organization in which such organisations should not be for very clear reasons why the countries prohibit it. Think carefully about the reasons why you now support it, so we can stand up and talk about how only Serbia needs a union in the military. Only Serbia, only our country to be an experiment, and these other countries seem to have not yet learned about the possibility of improving the position of members, or members of their armies. Only Serbia is subject to a rule again, and we still need to be the leaders of the Serbia Army's avant-garde by stopping all of us and supporting, if one union is, tomorrow, the second, the third, the fifth, the tenth. It has no place in the Serbian Army. I say, personally, by name and last name, not as a member of a party, I do not accept that I represent the party's views, and in the police place there are none, although there are now, and yet we are the only ones in Europe who have a collective contract for police workers and it was signed by Minister Dacic. The only one in Europe. So, we're some geniuses who really are in the military and the police, the only ones in Europe we see are that we really need unions, and our best unions are going to improve the situation in the military and the police. I wonder, then, why do we not export this innovation simply to EU Member States, Belarus, the Russian Federation and other countries that strictly prohibit such an organisation? When we're so brilliant, why don't we now offer that knowledge and skill, simply not sell? I would ask the defence minister to seriously consider this proposal at some college in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe we should sell it? It turns out that we are one of the few countries that is so kindly looking at the union organization and that we somehow direct Italy, France, Great Britain and Iceland to make it better for them, both Belarus and the Russian Federation, that they adopt our positive example or that they explain to us why it is not good for a country. Now, that would be some little suggestion of mine, and I agree that we're going in one direction or another if those countries convince us, or us, in a positive example of the practice that we have or what they have. Why do they ban it, and none of those countries here in Serbia who have ambassadors, do not explain it in talks with the opposition MPs, but explain that it would be good for the opposition to support these unions in the military, for example, but when we allowed even a few of them in the police to agree with each other. I think that by replacing these two words, we will not be able to improve the position of members of the Serbian Army at all, and I thank the defence minister himself for being well guided by this portfolio entrusted to him by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, you've been a good minister in the second portfolio. That's how it's done in all democratic states. Jacques Lang was a culture minister for a time. He didn't play the piano, he was a good politician. After that, he was the minister of education. He was also not a teacher at any school in France. He ran that vault well. That's how it's done in democratic states. Good politicians who know how to implement government policy run certain resolutions, and others can organize, some NGOs, experts from these areas. They used to be members of some professional associations, in chambers of commerce. It's called the civil sector now according to the latest dictionary and then they can use their advice, but they don't have to, so this was a political time for colleagues who already disqualify themselves in advance for a future in the next century, when they will take over the government of the Republic of Serbia. So someone who's a librarian is supposed to open a library portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the thesis he repeats persistently here from session to session. Lucky I'm a lawyer, so I can expand the spectrum of these resistors to include if they're looking for professional associations. I'm against it. I am more a proponent of the German model, that only a member of the individual party can be a member of the government, but these are now other tendencies and I retain my opinion within the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34274	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34275	Chairman, you have violated Rule 103 and 107. Whenever there are arguments about certain matters concerning the laws on the agenda, MPs of the ruling coalition begin to insult the MPs on this side of the hall. It's interesting and I can say funny and hypocritically that a leftist is talking about Hilandar, and the morale of a man whose closest family members have taken, not to say, robbed this country and for what there are criminal charges. As for the Dvora and Hilandar movement, we regularly go to Hilandar. Mr. Bosko Obradović and I... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34276	Are you going to tell me, colleague Kostic, what does that have to do with an article? 103, 104 and 107? (Ivan Kostic: The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, and I want to point to false speech. And you know that I know what's true and what's not? Is that right? (John Kostic: It is ours to point to falsehoods. ) During the discussion, not according to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. (Ivan Kostic: Members 103 and 107. I have the right to point out lies. ) Well, would you like to read Article 103? "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the meeting of the National Assembly." But, Mr. Kostic, I can't know if my colleague Obradovic is going to Hilandar or not. I can't tell which criminal charges were filed, which they didn't. (John Kostic: Then the easiest thing to do is to stop the MPs, so they can't... Because you've already entered the line, so I interrupted you. (Ivan Kostic: Now Mrs Gojkovic insults Mr Obradovic. I have a right to point that out. You have no right to point out that, it is the right to replicate, if it was, and it was not, but it cannot be the subject of injury to the Rules of Procedure. (John Kostic: He gives lies and insults the dignity of the National Assembly. You're masters at it. Here, I'll quote what you said. So every MP has the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure if during the discussion, someone else is false, and what you have said violates the dignity of the MPs. (Ivan Kostic: The dignity of the National Assembly, can't we talk about it? Just to ask a question – Milos Stojkovic, is that perhaps a godfather... Mr. Bones, I'm asking you not to throw it away. Good thing I interrupted you, I interrupted you in time. Since I see where this is going, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a break of an hour. We continue work at 2.30 p.m. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, given what the Serbian Army was, when I say the Serbian army, I mean one continuity, which was not and should have been in some period, what we are now and what we, as citizens of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party, want the army to become, are therefore carefully referring to this problem, that is, to this bill of law. As good military command is precise and clear, so should laws that regulate any activity in the Serbian Army make it clear and accurate. We will endure it, because we are sure that what we do is good for our army, for our Serbia. Mr. Minister, it seems to me that you are a little over-forcing or talking about the involvement of members of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions, and you are not looking at enough attitude towards the wounded, towards the military officers, towards the fighters. You should do a lot more than you do on this level. But compared to a time earlier, we have to admit that the situation is better. I would never like to, and not just myself, I suppose that all officers share my opinion and all my colleagues in the National Assembly, that what happened to us, if I'm not mistaken, at the end of 2011, when a married couple where I think my father and husband were a member of the Serbian Army, along with their three-year-old child tried to end their lives. Unfortunately, the two of them are no longer alive and the child managed to survive. I would never want anything like that to happen again. That is what they tell us about, that is, the need to change the situation in the Serbian Army, those who have not taken care of the Army of the Republic of Serbia at all. Our military educational institutions existed before, and they gave good senior officers, officers and other personnel. We're just going to set up some procedures, some order, to know how and how to do it. This isn't a complete newspaper right now. We are not now forming an army of the Republic of Serbia, so that everything will be new and different. We have positive experiences to apply, we need to develop them even more, but in the time ahead, I'm counting on something to change positively. I wish my colleague Torbica was here, now to make a little joke, of course, I don't know if he should say you're the best military minister yet. He said you were the best director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, but that one man was not before you, and now that one man before you was also the Minister of Military and I don't know if he should claim that you are the best military minister so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34279	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mihaylovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34280	Dear Mr. Minister, associates, firstly, I would say that it is very important that we are now in the process of obtaining a new law of the Republic of Serbia belonging to the Republic itself, meaning, which is not inherited and which regulates the area of military education, which is very important, because it is also worthy of the Republic of Serbia and the Army of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment, which I have submitted, concerns Articles 1 and 1 and this amendment, as well as the text of the proposed Article 1, contains all elements explaining what the Law on Military Education is governing. This amendment is my attempt and seeing that in a more consistent way, the content of the law is described. It does not tend to disqualify the content of decommissioned elements that regulate military education through this bill. Perhaps it is only one finesse, and I believe that in a number of elements that are significant for military education, it was better to only ultimately apostrophe of words – the specificities of military education compared to the education system of the Republic of Serbia. It means it's just coming to an end. So education is part of social upgrade and as such has a very general dimension. Any education, including military education, has a number of common lines and elements, such as principles, principles and general objectives, formats, etc., but of course military education also has certain specificities to be mentioned and defined here in this law. In addition, the fact that there are specificities in military education also tells the fact that the foundation of military education is in the Law on the Defence of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not under the direct jurisdiction of the laws which are the product and which are given on a proposal from the Ministry of Education. But on the other hand, it should also be pointed out that military education is also an integral part of overall education in the education system of the Republic of Serbia and that is very important. It cannot be viewed absolutely isolated, nor is it entrenched, and on the other hand it contains these specificities. To conclude, it may have been better, but it's my personal vision that doesn't deny it at all, or, I say, tends to disqualify the proposed text in the first article, but maybe it was better, I think, that there is a reference to what all the elements are and what is governed by this law, and finally to mention that the law also regulates certain specificities. Of course, I should be proud, and I'm going to end up with this one law, because it's very important, because the Army of the Republic of Serbia certainly has a glorious past. Military school also has its roots in the past. Examples from what is the defence of the country in famous battles are now being studied in many academics and should always be mentioned in the most positive and most beautiful context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34281	Thank you. The National MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Paunovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34282	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Republika Srpska Army, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the amendment I submitted concerns Article 1st position 1, as well as counterpart Miletic. I believe that he is precisely defined, but simply my suggestion went in the direction of a sentence that says "specificity of military education in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia" might sound a little more acceptable to me if it were to say "specificities of military education" without: "in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia", which I put somewhere that if it is not the headquarters, it certainly is, with all its specificities, absolutely within the framework, so that I do not say the basis of complete education, if we consider the fact that military education is first being recognised in the world, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. The Law of Military Education itself is unequivocally good and absolutely desirable. In that sense, we have already spoken out, as said the authorised representative of fellow Members Stefana Miladanovic, but also all colleagues who spoke in front of the SPS parliamentary group, that we will support him, and not only him, but a whole set of laws that are ahead of us, because we simply feel it was necessary for such legal changes to occur when it comes to the Army of the Republic of Serbia, so, distinguished ministers, all praise for you and your efforts, when it comes to a set of laws that are ahead of us. I say, my amendment actually meant only that perhaps by reshaping a little more precisely, I define those provisions in Article 1(1), but I certainly don't think it's an unwarranted argument from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that my amendment is not being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34283	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Marjana Maraš, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34284	Thank you, Chairman. In a desire to support the amendment submitted by my colleague, Snezana Paunovic, and to accept the argument presented by the government in the rejection of this amendment, I would just like to take the opportunity to point out that on the occasion of Serbia's Army Day, which is marked on 23 April, a tactical and technical assembly was held in the Vrbas municipality where citizens of the Vrbas municipality had the opportunity to see various infantry weapons, combat vehicles, connections and radar services systems, that this tactical and technical assembly had been visited exceptionally, that there were primarily many younger generations and that they were increasingly interested in military education year after year. So, Minister, I welcome this action that was in the Vrbas municipality and certainly to point out, because somewhere, by meeting those who define what they will learn further, that the series "Verbas Academy", supported by the Ministry of Defence, has also contributed to the growing number of young people interested in both secondary and higher education when it comes to the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34285	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34286	Thank you, Chairman. I would first of all like to support the Socialist Party of Serbia's initiative to submit amendments to the government's proposals, because there are obviously bad solutions in government proposals that need to be corrected and therefore colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia, regardless of what they are part of the government, point to these shortcomings in the proposed laws. They have indeed not submitted 400 amendments as representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party that have much more objections to the work of their own government and that is something to be pointed out and commended. This is the first meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in which MPs from the ruling majority criticise their government and submit hundreds of amendments because the government is proposing bad laws. Mr. Minister, if I were you, I would seriously worry why the representatives of your ruling majority are putting up with so many amendments when they say they support the government, and the government is doing bad work, the government is giving bad laws. You need to think about leaving. Indeed, you must consider resignations, because if, on one of your laws, your ruling majority proposes 400 amendments, then the question of what kind of law did you write? I really ask you, Mr. Minister, to seriously consider your responsibility. That law is so bad that the entire ruling majority had to write amendments and correct your screw-ups in that law. It's just amazing. The ruling majority has never submitted 400 amendments to their own government's proposal. That clearly says that the government has no idea what he's talking about, what he's writing about and what he's proposing here. Otherwise, I guess the ruling majority would support the government's work. The ruling majority here criticises the government's work and submits amendments to your draft laws. It's just amazing. What is important is that the SPS joined in, that the SPS also realized how badly the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, that not only the representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party know it, but also the SPS thinks so now. This leads us all to one right and final conclusion, that here or not, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has to resign, or the MPs of the ruling majority are wrong, because it is simply amazing that, believe it or not, respected citizens, all their amendments have been rejected by the government. Well, what kind of ruling majority is that and what kind of ideas does it have if the government refuses all of your amendments? Ask yourself how much you're worth to your government when they won't accept any of your amendments. Your amendments are so good they're all rejected by your government that you support. Well, don't support that government any more, deny her trust and replace such poor ministers that you have to submit 400 amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34287	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34288	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, don't worry, I know what's bothering Mr. Obradovic. According to recent public opinion polls, the only two parties crossing the censorship are the Serbian Progressive Party led by Aleksandr Vukic with about 58% support and the Socialist Party of Serbia with slightly less than 7%. A movement led by a speaker who spoke before me, he's not even in research. So you don't recognize him in the electoral body or, in the language of natural sciences, you don't see him in the electoral body or in the clues. What a man, when he's gone, will try to draw attention to himself. He used to draw attention to himself by representing the attitudes of those who during World War II brought children to the shooting, sometimes drawing attention to himself by supporting the extreme right-wing parties in Germany by claiming that those friends, as they were now nearing the marking of the alleged mass shooting of Ustashas in Blyburg, were trying to attract attention in time by bringing a pilgrim to Blyburg here to parliament, taking pictures with him here at the gallery, and probably preparing to take a few days off from Austria because the Austrian government said he couldn't ban the rally, since he was held on private property. Mr. Minister, you have nothing to worry about, you enjoy the full support of the Serbian Progressive Party, just continue to strengthen the fighting capabilities of the Serbian Army, continue to remind you of the terrible crimes the Ustasha committed in World War II against the Serb people and do not worry about the support you have in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34289	The People's Messenger George Komlenski has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34290	Thank you, Chairman. You've hurt Article 27. Rules of Procedure, since you're looking out for working conditions in the Assembly, in the O.R., they're common, good, not to say normal. Since I didn't bring my distance glasses and I don't see what's out of the door open, I believe this draft makes you hear someone banging on the other side and I'm asking you to tell the security people to shut the door, that that banging doesn't bother you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34291	That part of the chairman is not in charge. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34292	I thank you, Chairman. I just can't help thinking, I know it's inspiring to talk in ten to three, and it's supposed to be people who are committed to this transmission. Taking into account what counterpart Martinovic was talking about, then there is more inspiration. However, what makes no sense to me is that my colleague Obradovic did not remember even though a lady spoke first before him. Second of all, it's the least pointless. Thirdly, I made a very precise point of what I thought was supposed to be a change of attitude. So he took the opportunity to try to say something, to call the Socialist Party of Serbia for some bass player in some process that only he sees, or simply thinks that we, as MPs facing the law, do not have the right to read the law, give our opinion about it, and eventually point both to the government and to the resolution minister, who defends the law, which is what we see from the angle of the MPs that could be changed or corrected. I don't know why people give themselves the right only to be able to deal with corrections, criticisms or whatever. I don't know what inspires any of us, except for the inability to ask for resignations without cover from the people to whom the people have given their mandate with over 70% support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34293	The word has the People's MP Neđo Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34294	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Ministry Representatives i.e. Your colleagues should be happy to have such a majority in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to be happy that the majority of the Republika Srpska Assembly behaves in the way it behaves. The amendments to be made are a completely different way of political action compared to those of which you have just heard various criticisms and calls sent to you for resignation. Neither resignation nor anything directed on their part represents anything but destruction, and therefore citizens recognize the difference between us and them, and the destruction they have manifested so far has been waged by violence against the president of parliament, against journalists. In the way it works and how vulgar dialogue is conducted instead of a culture of dialogue, we have a culture of dialogue as Mr. Martinovic said, they don't even deserve the percentage that Mr. Martinovic said they adopted. I don't know exactly what it is, and even if it's zero, they don't deserve that zero. Therefore, one who does not know what the amendment is and what the objective of the amendment is and that the objective of the amendment is achieved by improving the quality of the law, should not be a MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34295	Right on the replica, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34296	Thank you, Chairman. I am pleased that counterpart Nedo Jovanovic has admitted what I have claimed to be improving the amendments to a bad and unquality law. As you submit 400 amendments, as the ruling majority, this law is very bad and unquality, because 400 amendments are needed to fix it. So we agree on that, that's fine. The other thing that is crucial to me here is that we have established some basic things here and that the Minister of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not served the army, I am glad that the minister has not answered a single question when finally the apartments for members of the Security Service will be promised several years ago - zero. Promised a few months ago - zero. The papers should have started two months ago – they didn't start. So, I ask you when I ask you something, answer the question, don't answer with slanders, attacks, and other jokes and phases. A very simple question has apartments, no apartments. You will sign a legally binding agreement with the fake state of Kosovo, you will not sign a legally binding agreement with a false state. It's simple questions. I don't know why you're so hard and running away and think you're going to distract the public with slanders, attacks on opposers of fiction, lies. The theme is Mr. Minister's flats. You promised them. For years, you've been lying to security officers about building no apartments. Why aren't they here again? When you promised them again. Just answer that question. You let go of these stories and these jokes and phases. And the second question is, when did you, Mr. Secretary, measure yourself in the election? Let's go out, here's Dvora and the Socialist Movement who has greater support for the citizens of Serbia. You're the minister in the Serbian government, and you've never measured yourself in the elections. You probably have that zero you're talking about here, and you're the minister. Based on what support of citizens are you the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with zero?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34297	Take it easy. The right to replicate First National MP Aleksandra Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I invite you, Mr. Minister, to remain calm and keep your smiles and listen to these brilliant words of the People's Parliament. Do you know why he's always getting his hands on some apartments and facilities? Because he was in Chačka in his own time, and it wasn't so long ago, raised over, of course, before the SNS came to power, while his mentor hired him at the City Library in Chačka, and we know very well who he was dealing with, who cheered and dressed up construction inspection in Cačka raised 60,000 illegal apartments and houses, and by that Freudian logic when you have an unclean conscience then when he has to swim to the surface and has to talk about it, so he keeps being tortured by some apartments, some buildings, etc. As for measuring in the elections, I would like someone to tell me what parliamentary elections his party is in the Movement of the Citizens' Association or what it has already participated in on its own. As far as I know, never. And now for the last time they entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they were reportedly successful, although no one living knows whether it is true or not, as there is no evidence that Vojislav Kostunica won the first election round of Slobodan Milosevic in 2000, but here, let's say, we lawyers have knocked down the assumption that they crossed the 5% censorship. That 5% censorship has moved into a coalition with the DSS, of course with the help of individual ambassadors. (President: Bringing the end. Here, I'm done. Do you know, Mr. Minister, why never in any of the declarations they file against us, which refers to the conviction of the crime in NDH, mentions the actions of Flash and Storm? Because they entered the National Assembly on the party list then led by the woman Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who claimed that Storm was a legitimate operation by the Croatian military. Now they lecture us on patriotism and call you who strengthen our army to the extent that it hasn't strengthened back in 30 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34299	Right on line, Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34300	Thank you. I'm really glad there's no objection to the law, there's objections to me. That's better, as far as I'm concerned, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Personal hatred always brings under the parliamentary censorship of those involved. I know they never went on their own. It bothers them that someone else can have a coalition, especially a winner, but doesn't think it's bad for them to be in the coalition. When they tried something on their own, as I recall, my esteemed predecessor lost more than 50% of his votes from the village of Vranic, where, in his home village, Aleksandar Vukic taught him where he belongs, as a presidential candidate. So, people who know him best, but it doesn't matter. And it doesn't matter much, it's parliamentary democracy, it's the right of everyone. I respect every voice you've got, I don't disrespect a single voice, these people have my great respect. He listened here, from the same people, you remember those lies of 400,000 migrants, for which we made the city, somewhere in southern Serbia, never those liars came out and said, I'm sorry, we lied, and then the lobbyist on our list told us, so we had to embarrass Serbia. No one has ever denied the lies that he said and told himself. Don't worry about recognising Kosovo, Kosovo has already recognised your partners with whom you stood on the same stage, Jankovic, Jeremic. You stand together with them, and you pass it on to us. So, don't worry about it, we certainly haven't done it and of course we'll never do it. Just in time, to say these administrations, since this ministry was elected, and more than 700 members of the Serbian Army have been registered in the past. How many of them got an apartment in the library in Chačka? How many of them got an apartment in other companies? How much did the entire public sector get? No, they're winning Serbia's Army because we especially respect and love Serbia's Army. Excuse me, don't be mad at us, we don't fight women, we respect the law, so the building of apartments will start when you see a "medicine specialis" here about apartments for all security members, and otherwise, the government adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34301	Easy, Mr. Obradovic. You've made quite a list for replicas. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34302	I thank the chairman. Unlike the gentleman who caused this replica and was not allowed to leave for almost an hour and a half, because there were representatives of the Hilandar monastery and our guests from Greece, from the Thessaloniki Theological Academy, with their professors, Alexander Vulin can go out anywhere, freely, without fear at all times. They even prayed outside that if there was a possibility, they would come out and talk to them. What the minister failed to say, since the Socialist Movement party was also called, anyone serious about politics knows the following, that it is very difficult for the coalition to go on its own at different levels. The Socialist movement at the moment he went to the joint list Aleksandar Vucic – Serbia wins, in the 2016 republican elections, at the same time he performed on his own and passed the censorship with success from six to almost 20% in Bačka Palanca, Bac, Krupnje, Zaguvica, Vladic's Han, Sremski Karlovci, Titell, Iriga and already in those cities, the Dvori were a statistical error in the results achieved. In 2017 we went on our own to the elections at the time when the Vrbas presidential elections, Koserić, produced results of seven and something and 10 percent, and that no single vote in the collection, when it comes to a common list at the republican level or our joint presidential candidate, Alexander Vukic, was missing. Something like that can only have a serious left-wing party that has a clear foothold in its electoral body but unfortunately, gentlemen who talk about it don't know what it means because they're interested in something else, how to take money from their councilors and put it in their pocket and don't account for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34303	Neđa Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34304	I would like to thank the President. I will not answer again, because I believe that whoever caused this circle of replicas does not deserve to report to meaningless allegations, unfounded highlights, and that I am descending to such a level on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and the ruling majority do not come to mind. What citizens need to know is the indisputable fact that there is no such good law, so high-quality law that it cannot be fixed to be even better, that it cannot be contributed to being even better. All that we, as MPs today, at least this part of the people's MPs who really have that goal, then we need to recognize that exactly by fighting for the quality of the law, which in no way can be said to be bad. But there's something that's so bad, I don't know how to fix it. A policy that feeds on destruction, based on destruction, how do you fix that policy? How do you help get over it? There are only two ways, or destruction will eat itself, like liver cirrhosis, metaphorically, or whoever truly realizes that it is destructive, will try to transform and contribute to this society by adapting to the work that we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34305	Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34306	Right on the line. Thank you. Let's put things completely democratic and fair. Let's each go out in his hometown and in his town district where he lives, both in his city and in the municipalities, to elections under his name, from all of us here present. Here, I'll read you my results from the local elections in Chačka on which I came out under my name in 2016. In my city district of Avladžinica 1 and Avladžinica 2, where I live my whole life, 37% and 38% of the votes. In my hometown of Vranići – 40% of the votes. On average, Dvora, as the bearer of Bosko Obradovic's list in Cačka, 25% of the vote. Now let's all, gentlemen, here present in the National Assembly to each come out and say how much he won in his hometown and how much he won in his town or municipality of votes, under his name, not under the name of Alexander Vukic or Ivica Dacic, under his name, and then to talk further. The second thing, I ask you, really, is that when you talk about any issue, you go first. So, you allowed yourself to be told at the final rally by war criminal Gerhard Schroeder, to take pictures with war criminal Bill Clinton, that your advisor to the government was war criminal Tony Blair, a play by politicians who bombed Serbia and who left behind countless crimes and consequences for the health of the population in this country. You boast of friendship with war criminals and enemies of the Serb people. Be careful when you say anything to anyone else, be serious about your words or give up your friends, Tony Blair, Bill Clinton, Gerhard Schrader, Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj, with whom you are together in the government so-called. An independent Kosovo you don't recognize, but you're in the government with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34307	The Belief of Radeta, the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34308	Article 27. This debate certainly has the right to answer and speak, but this debate is only going towards one goal, for someone here to present themselves to the public of Serbia as the bravest, smartest MP, etc., which is certainly not, and this is certainly the best proof of what a mistake this group led by Bosko Obradovic has even entered parliament, as we remind ourselves that they did not have enough percentage to enter parliament. What's more important here, for someone to be a MP and someone to be able to talk about a bill and write an amendment and to explain the amendment has to read, to learn, to learn, to know, to be worthy. When all this is not, like Bosko Obradovic, he talks all day about the Rules of Procedure, because it is a way for him through the Rules of Procedure to introduce himself to the citizens of Serbia as someone who has the nerve to say I don't know what, who presents himself as who he really isn't. Of course, I can't suggest to you right now that you don't give the Rules of Procedure to any member of the People's Party to speak, because on the contrary, we advocate as many opportunities as possible for the MPs to settle, primarily the MPs of the opposition parties, but certainly there are places to take those two minutes from the parliamentary group sometimes if someone really abuses this Rules of Procedure and misrepresents itself, or falsely, to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34309	Time, thank you. I agree, the measures must be applied from the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to vote? No, I don't. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34310	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, 103, in connection with article 107, because the Assembly has been severely deceived. Mr. Obradovic said he lived in Avladžinica his whole life. That's not true. It was until 2016, and then the funds his party won began to disappear. Then the apartment was changed right after the election in the city center. If there's no apartment in the city center, then we'll approach the gift. Here, your fellow citizens claim that this apartment and how it exists. Also, he didn't get anything on his own. By 2008, the organization was worth something. In 2008, John Kapel, an air attaché, met with Bosko Obradovic and clearly gave him tasks, you want to say that this is not true either, clearly gave him tasks and assigned him to Jasmine Vujic. Bosko Obradovic, who is proud of some of his authentic results, contesting it to others, is like a posum, like a parasite, like a tick. Which political party he hangs himself on, he survives, the political party simply dies. That was the case, here's the latest case, with Sanda Raskovic Ivić, that's one case. After a year, Sashi Radulovic, who had a far better rating, got attached. Sasa Radulovic became Sasa Rasulovic, this one survived and awaits the next victim and I think it will be the Vuk Jeremic descendant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34311	Thank you, MP. Time's up. In accordance with Article 27, I give Vladimir Marinkovic my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34312	Reverend President, I'll get the amendment. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you, the Honorable President, have given the previous speaker a good time in political theory before this break. However, it continues as usual and according to that good old custom of theirs, and I am sure it will stop such an attempt to brutally calculate with the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vulin. They probably thought that Mr. Vulin had a small number of MPs here and that we as coalition partners wouldn't respond to these disgusting accusations and everything that the previous speaker said, and it had nothing to do with the topic we're discussing at today's session, and the topics are very serious, the Law on Military Education, the Law on Defence, the Law on BIA. You mentioned the example of Germany, you mentioned a union organization, obviously that this military union that doesn't exist in any serious, modern, European state or in the Russian Federation, and that we're not talking about the People's Republic of China, that it's an extended hand of certain political parties. It's not this right-wing party that's in league with the Bulgarian Atak, and now they've seen each other and apologized well at Crimea, a pro-fascist, Nazi party. It is not by chance that a right-wing conservative party promotes union interests, but is of the greatest and most important interest to bring down the reputation of Minister Vulin, to bring down the reputation of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of our Army. So that's the main goal and that's what the main motive of the previous speaker in his speeches is. I will remind you only of 2014, just to be realistic, that the key thing for our country, for the development of the economy, for modernization was to vote the Labour Act in this National Assembly, and most of all thanks to the minister who sits here with us today. I'll remind those who don't know, the Radeta colleague said well, and they should read, they should be worth it, that 74% of the provisions of the Labour Act that we adopted at the time were in line with representative unions, and not with party offices and opposition exposures that who knows whose interests are being promoted here in our country. Of course, it may be one of the main goals of hitting those who are the most persistent in defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. Isn't that obvious? For those who defend our interests most in our southern province, we will be around these key issues for our country, when it comes to our future, our economic growth, the employment of our people, but also the defence of our key and vital national interests be together, all together, all of our coalition partners and, of course, we will fight and we will not allow such an attempt to brutally calculate that has nothing, absolutely nothing to do with the topic of our discussion today. Please, let us go back to that debate to help us do what our job is as MPs, to help the ministry and these people here to make the legal solution and the law applicable, to strengthen military education, to strengthen our army, to strengthen our intelligence services, and thus strengthen our state in the best interests of the Republic of Serbia and our citizens. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović: By Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34313	First according to Natasa Jovanovic's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34314	I'm reporting for article 162 and later on, I'm going to be using my colleague Paunovic's amendment. So, Madam President, as far as the amendments are concerned, you've heard and heard from your colleague Radet and we've listened to you this morning, it's legitimately the right of every MP, and here it's only asking the question of changing the Rules of Procedure and the possibility that the MPs of the opposition have more opportunities in the sense that we don't have this merger of dots in this way. The point here is that this movement, as it is already called, Dvori led by Bosca Obradovic could not bear too many amendments as SRS MPs have done on this bill, because military education is being talked about. You know well, Mrs. Gojkovic, since we are from the same region as you and I, as well as Bosko Obradovic, that there in that movement which he represents only has the ideology of fascism. There is nothing free for the state, for the people, for the Serbs, for the progress of the army, for prosperity, for the military doctrine, because the military doctrine as a follower of Dimitri Ljotic cannot even represent Bosko Obradovic, because while mine and yours in the ranks of Djeneral Draža Mihailovic fought for the liberation of Serbia, so, first of all, I think of my grandfather and his followers, and it was on the other hand against fascist followers of Dimitri Ljotic, at the same time those worshiped by Ljoticevic Bosko Obradovic brought children to my Kragujevac's shooting sites. While Dimitrije LJotic, along with the Germans, fought to crush Serbia and kill as many Serbs as possible, General Draža Mihailovic freed Loznica, who was the first enslaved city in Europe on 31 August 1941.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34315	Thank you. Bosko Obradović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34316	Dear Chairman, I would like first of all to call on the dignity of the National Assembly to be a member of 107, and then a member of 109, and all that concerns offensive expressions to fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Here, I'm going to ask you to be objective and answer me a few allegations, and I just want to point out what's going on here are harsh lies and lies. If proven otherwise, that I answer her, and if it turns out to be true what certain MPs here claim, then someone here has to be responsible. When, for example, counterpart Risticevic says I've met with a certain US military attaché, John Kapel, and I've never met with him. That's a lie. When other fellow MPs say I met with the American ambassador, and I've never met any American ambassador in my life. I'm ready to swear on the Holy Scriptures, so let's see if these people are laughing across the street. Or when someone says I have an example. Some new apartment in the center of town of Chačka, and I don't have one. That's a notorious lie. It's slander. It's a lie. I ask that you protect me from this kind of persecution, harassment and lies, without talking about when a Serbian Movement Dvora calls a fascist organisation or, say, the Bulgarian political party Ataka a pro-fascist and nascist one. And I remind you, Madam Chairman, that a delegation of the Bulgarian Assembly with Vice President Pavel Shopov, one of Ataka's top-level leaders, was accepted in this Assembly and that some of those who are now calling them were hugging and kissing at dinners with Ataka representatives in Belgrade, and we are hypocritically resented that we are meeting. We meet publicly with them, and we do not hug and kiss at dinners. So Ataka can't be the most Nazi when Dvori meets with her, and the super Bulgarian brother and party party when the authorities are hugging and kissing her.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34317	Thank you. I ask the MPs no longer to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure when they wish to replicate or take something out of their political action. I don't know anything about hugs and loved ones, believe me, I can't judge anything about that. Did anyone hug and kiss at dinner, breakfast, lunch, I don't think that's the topic of today's debate. Do any of the people on the list want to talk about the amendment or want to keep talking about everything else? The word has the word Mirjana Dragaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34318	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, gentlemen officers, honourable MPs. Of course, I thank everyone in our expressed desire to continue the discussion of the law and the amendment that I personally submitted. The objective of this amendment I gave was to point out that in the law on education in the military, it should be said that there are several levels of that education, that it should be tied to a single system. It is, of course, specific purposes and special quality and specific areas of work, but since it also involves military education and training and military-professional training, I felt that binding to the system was an appropriate qualification. I also believe that it should be in this part related that this army of ours actually belongs to the army of the Republic of Serbia, pointing out the defence of its statehood, its integrity, given its light tradition, but given the circumstances in which the Serbian state and the entire Serbian people are present and that, in fact, strengthening the army at this moment and this moment, is something that is of particular importance for both the people and for the whole country, and therefore I believe that these laws are appropriate and appropriate to the objective and that they should, in the coming period, also go towards further completion and improvement, especially the position of soldiers in it, respecting their integrity and all that the Serbian army and the Serb people belong to the army in fact, have been deserved in history. Today's time in the world and the environment daily shows that the security of the state and the people is in great danger that we must have a high degree of sensitivity, caution and responsibility and that, accordingly, we must always improve the education and training of the military and it is certain at every moment of special importance. Military learning and military doctrines should continue to be based on our liberal tradition, especially on defence and protection objectives with a clear perception of what our things are and who our friends are, and what, by the means of friends on international law, should be particularly expressed at any moment. I would also like to point out this time that military knowledge and skills in our tradition are known and recognized in the world, especially those applied during the First World War, are known military skills of our dukes, military elders Živojin Misic, Stepa Stepanovic, Duke of Travelers, etc., whose use of war and military skills is being investigated, i.e. at many international military academys. We must also remember the famous Partisan traditions and our army in the fight for the freedom of the Serb people, in the fight against fascism, and I think it is brave to point out precisely that heroism and belonging to the anti-fascist struggle that many forces today want to be reduced or completely forgotten. I point out that a dangerous revision of history is always causing the danger of repeating evil. The tradition of suppressing truth was also tried by the authorities after 2000 when by reducing the role of the military, by reducing its reputation by impoverishing, neglecting and placing equipment they managed to bring it down to a rather low level, but of course it also paid a reduction in the level of education itself. The power is the importance of our army and military experts and commanders of the heroism of soldiers we saw in the defense of Yugoslavia and the war in 1999 when it was opposed to NATO aggression, and when it successfully and successfully defended itself. It is not only the democratic forces that declare themselves democratic, but the democratic forces that live in harmony with their people, in line with their goals, lifestyle, tradition and their commitment. It is important in addition to all of this to highlight the right to memory, truth and justice, which should and should be considered to be an integral part of this military education, and first of all to point out that the tradition of freedom positions and wars and the fight against the revision of history implies by me two segments, that is, one, the preservation of heroic works and the names of all soldiers and fighters, which I think must be written in all military documents, but on the other hand, the memory of all civilian victims and the death of the Serb people, primarily our people in Croatia, 100 years ago and especially of KIM. I believe that the activities he has expressed lately and the foreign minister is Mr. Ivica Dacic and particularly the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, in this direction, the guarantee that we will continue to preserve our statehood, but also the provision of this historic memory that we cannot at all give up, which we are, and unfortunately, we are all guilty in some decades behind us. In that sense, I believe that this military education means these significant segments that go to preserve the reputation of every soldier, and I would also like to point out that the SPS will, of course, vote in favour of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34319	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34320	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry and the Army, fellow MPs, we have been talking all day about the law on education and I, as an authorised representative of the SRS, still wish to point to one member of the defence law, which we also pointed to during the debate in principle. It's about Article 8 relating to Article 23(1), where we absolutely welcomed here the Ministry's intention to keep records of the dead, missing, wounded and murdered members of the armed forces. On this occasion, we pointed out that the date indicated here on March 23rd 2001 until June 30th 2001, which refers to the land security zone, was absolutely unresponsive and that we wrote an amendment that practically gives the right date, when it comes to members of the army. We also agreed with the reply of the minister who said that not only military members should be included, but also members of the police who were wounded and killed in the land's security zone. On that side, our amendment wasn't appropriate, because it didn't include members of the police. However, our MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Milorad Mircic gave the amendment. The answer we got was absolutely unacceptable. You remain on the date you gave, and that date, gentlemen, refers to an agreement that the NATO Pact brought on March 14th to allow us to enter the land security zone by sector. When the NATO Pact allowed us to do so, gentlemen, then the problems were no longer solved in the land's security zone. All those who died before that, according to your point of view and suggestion, do not enter that record. That's what's unacceptable, and now I'm going to read you some specific cases. The right date would be gentlemen to put on June 10, 1999 until June 30, 2001. Under the Kumanov agreement in the land's security zone, only the police could stay on checkpoints and police patrols, up to ten people. From June 10th to August 2001, there were 1,160 terrorist attacks. 34 people died, 10 civilians, 18 cops, six soldiers. 102 people were injured, 25 civilians, 61 police officers and 16 soldiers. 45 people were kidnapped. This hasn't happened to the gentlemen in the period you're talking about here. Now let me also give you specific cases, so now you see whether the law leaves what you have proposed or whether, in a certain way, through the Defence and Security Committee or through the supplement given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, correct this. On 21 November 1999, on the way of Kursumlijska Banja – Podujevo, a police vehicle came across a mine. Police officers died: Živorad Pantovic, Jovica Janićijevic and Milenko Strugar. The same vehicle badly wounded police officers: Radisa Tanaskovic, Dejan Pesic, Slavoljub Paunović, Sasa Cakovic and Milorad Nedeljkovic. On 21st November 2000, police officers were abducted at the station Gropa: Duško Gligorić, Duško Djokovic and Cvetan Jovanovic. After the beastly torture these officers were killed. On the same day, police officers were wounded: Nebojsa Ikodinović, Miljko Babić, Dragan Stojkovic, Zlatan Popovic and Milic Milosavljevic. According to your proposal, gentlemen, none of these people are on record. What we've been doing, gentlemen, can't be taken as malicious. We have well-intentioned you that in writing the amendment to this law you failed in the dates. Whether it's a technical mistake, which we suspect, or whether it's ignorance, of what we're sure, it doesn't matter, but it can't, gentlemen, one of the dates that has been set by the NATO Pact, be for us and for you from the Ministry of Defense the date from which you'll start to measure who died, who was wounded and who was captured. What it says here is quite the opposite of what Mr. Secretary of Defense accepted in principle and we of the SRS realized that our amendment did not respond because it did not include members of the police. We absolutely agreed with what the minister said, that all, absolutely all, who, during the period of existence of the Homeland Security Zone, were, on June 10, 1999, were, therefore, wounded, killed, missing, captured, kidnapped, in those records. I don't know why the government could, even on the basis of this half-amendment, which applied to members of the army, not accept, but return again to March 23rd, or NATO Pact Decision, which was made on March 14th, which was extorted by events in Macedonia, which took place in February 2001 and to free NATO and KFOR from us? So they then allowed the army to engage and enter certain sectors of the Homeland Security Zone. That's what I'm telling you, gentlemen, and because I was commander of the Third Squad of Special Purpose, who was down there at the time. I think you need to find a way now while the debate continues on this, that this inadmissible failure and inadmissible error towards members of both the military and the police will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34321	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34322	First of all, I would like to express my respect for another great war general of the Serbian Army, Mr Bozidar Delic, but I will look back on the previous amendment, which is actually on the agenda, a fellow SPS colleague, who I absolutely support, because I believe there is a series of well-detected shortcomings in the proposed government legal solutions. I think that also the MPs from the SNS and the SPS have seen well how badly the government is working and how much, with over 400 amendments, only one legislative proposal needs to correct these bad legal solutions. However, Mr. Minister, I would like to point out here some other things that are absolutely related to this, and as far as military education is concerned, and I am talking here about anti-fascist traditions, which are undoubtedly an important part of our freedom traditions, but we forget that these anti-fascist traditions include the former lecturer of the Military Academy in Belgrade, General Draža Mihailovic, whose grave is still unknown and thanks to who we are, in fact, the first anti-fascist resistance movement in Europe. First, Mr. Minister, I remind you of this historic lesson, the uprising against fascism and Nazism in Europe is not a partisan movement, but the Ravoral movement of General Draža Mihailovic, and it is simply unacceptable that more than 70 years after the martyrly death of General Mihailovic, killed monstrosically by communists after coming to power after 1945, we today do not know his grave place, as we have not opened many mass graves of victims of communist terror after 1945, as we did not return its names to the Serb army from its bright traditions before 1945, and the officers here know what I'm talking about, because our army was most famous in the world just from the Balkan wars and the First World War, not from the Partizan period. So, if you want military education, if you want Serbia's Army at the highest level, if you want our support, if we want to go through one of the great professors of the Military Academy, the late professor, Dr. Rada Rajic, who doctored on the topic of military ethics and military honor in the officer's court, then we need to go back to the bright examples from the times of the Balkan wars and the First World War, but also to the tradition of the Eastern Movement and General Draža Mihailovic. It is a shame for all of us here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we claim so much to inherit anti-fascism, which is still unknown to the grave site of General Draža Mihailovic, that no mass graves of victims of communist terror have been discovered, that they are not informants and snitches of the UDBA today in prison and in prison for all the liquidations of the so-called. People's enemies after 1945. So what antifascism are we talking about if that is still the status of those who raised the first uprising in occupied Europe in 1941? I understand that the SPS and the Socialist Heritage Movement Communist and Partizan tradition, but allow us, too, to inherit an anti-Communist and some other national tradition that is anti-fascist before you, partisans and communists. You played football with the Germans in Belgrade and collaborated with the Germans until the Soviet Union entered the war with Germany, and General Draža was already on the straight mountain and raised the uprising before you communists were ordered from the Cominterna to raise the uprising in Serbia. So you have to respond with respect to General Draža Mihailovic and you from the SPS and you from the Socialist Movement. Mr. Minister, when the name of General Draža Mihailovic is mentioned, you will rise up and bow down to the first uprising in occupied Europe under fascism and Nazism. That would be respect for anti-fascist traditions. If you are already such anti-fascists, then you should bow down to General Draži Mihailovic, you should discover his grave place, you should discover all the mass graves of the victims of the communist terror, you should send to prison those who killed after 1945, informants and snitches who worked for UDBA and the Communist party against the interests of their people. How many Serbian political immigrants around the world have been killed by UDBA? How many of those to whom the property was taken, and to this day has not been returned? How many who are still waiting for justice after more than 70 years, and you are as ideological heirs to communists and partisans still in power? They are not here in power to inherit someone else, but you, Mr. Minister, as ideologically inherited communists and partisans. So, please stand up, bow down to General Draži Mihailovic, bow down to the first rebel in occupied Europe, say it is a military tradition of Serbia, that the Ravnog Movement is part of the anti-fascist movement, and that it should be something to educate future generations of members of the Military Academy and complete military education or get up and say something else, that you still believe in Josip Broz Tito, that you are still going to "the House of Flowers", that you are still worshiping communist criminals and that we finally know what the real truth is about what the minister of military in Serbia thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34323	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Plasimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34324	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Chairman, I am advertising the violation of Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The previous speaker, distinguished General Bozidar Delic, spoke not only of the wrong agenda, but also of the wrong law. And that's the same thing. ) I highly appreciate my wartime colleague Bozidar Djelic as military commander and for his merits, however, we are here in the Assembly and we are having a political debate. Please stick to the agenda. You're like the president's duty to warn when someone turns out of that agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34325	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, throws out of town. I know what you're pointing at, colleague. Directly done breach of the Rules of Procedure, here, I said. My colleague, we cannot respect your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure because the objection can only be made if it was direct. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34326	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, nor the communists were so good, nor were the eunuchs so evil, but counterpart Obradovic hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, member of 107, calling on Draž Mihailovic. Draža Mihailovic is not a cat Draža. In 1999, you were in "Iskri" in favour of Dmitry Ljotic's choir guidelines. One more thing, you tried to insult the communists, the other left-wings. But it says here that the members of the Ilic family, declared after World War II for state enemies, were timely interned in the house of Obradovic's grandfather, a prominent and notorious communist, where they were forced to work as the most common servants in the red court of Obradovic. Also, Milisav Obradovic, son of grandfather, was with Mr. Velimir Ilic in "Hydrogradnja" a member of the Communist Party. So I don't know what he's been calling for. If you were for Dimitri Ljotic, then you were against Draža Mihailovic. If you're against the communists, then give up grandfathers, give up all the traditions they had at the time working for UDBU, OZNU, which you so despised in your speech. One more thing, that hanging out with Kostunica, that money he got was got to keep that cat Draž. As they gave it to Obradovic, along with the money, he spent all nine kittens of his life, starving, just taught him not to eat, he died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34327	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34328	I thank you, Chairman. I appeal to the provision of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly, because you have injured that provision since you have not sanctioned, at least you have warned a colleague who has tried here on the one hand to challenge new political and ideological divisions, to challenge new ideological conflicts and, worst of all, to insult a huge number of citizens of Serbia, who and how and how they respect both the heritage of their ideas and ideologies in the anti-fascist struggle. The Socialist Party of Serbia prides itself on the fact that its programme contains all the good, quality ideas of social democracy, socialism, Dimitri Tucovic, Radovan Dragovic, anti-fascist struggles through the Partizan movement, all that the left hand, and the Socialist Party of Serbia is the authentic left hand party, in itself. Bosko Obradovic insulted all those who carry these ideas within themselves, who cherish and respect these ideas, insulted those who gave their lives, insulted their families and their descendants, in the way they were determined. We socialists respect every patriot, every patriot, anyone who has contributed to defeating evil, to defeat fascism, anyone who has contributed to Fascism never returning, to suppress himself in the root. Today, you, Mr. Chairman, have allowed this very way to turn political speech into an ideology and dissipation of ideological hatred. I don't think you can let that happen and that every time something like that shows up, you can react sharply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34329	I thank you, colleague, for pointing me to these violations of the Rules of Procedure. I was simply unable to influence my colleague Obradovic, who was caught up in a political, ideological speech, which meant an invitation to civil war. It's fortunate that all those he accused of some crimes, I'm not here to investigate crimes or Chetniks or Partisans, there's history, historical facts, evidence, let them deal with it, but it's fortunate that most of those participants were retired, so that his call to civil war had no effect. By the way, I totally agree with you. But the people should see, the citizens, who they vote for and how they represent them, if they got their vote. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34330	I apologize, Chairman, for reporting to the replica, since the party was called directly. Since you just said that this isn't your job, I appreciate that, but I'm really going to ask someone to close that door there. It kills promea, it hears, it beats, and we have a problem working normally. As for the things that are being respected here by the Socialist Movement that the heritage of the idea of communism, we are very grateful that someone noticed it, but I don't understand what connection someone who has to Dmitry Ljotic's heritage policy has to do with communism, has anything to do with antifascism, what does he have to do with Draza Mihailovic in the first place? Why is he more interested in Draža Mihailovic's grave, and he doesn't care where Dmitry Ljotic's grave in Slovenia, who, running away from partisan, crashed in a car accident and died and thus fled to the hands of justice? How does one who supports the politics of Dimitri Ljotic, whose chief commanders of his famous Guard Assembly, was Marisav Petrovic in Kragujevac, who led the Kragujevac students and led the shooting? It is absolutely unacceptable and I really ask that colleagues agree with themselves which policies stick to. Only if it really is a policy for them to take money from Serbian sanctities, then I understand why it is time for Draža, an hour for Ljotic, if at all in the next five minutes they know whose ideology to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34331	Comrade Delic, you have no right to a replica. (Božidar Delic: I was directly mentioned. From the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't the discussion, it was the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34332	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 27. You were supposed to react when Bosko Obradovic spoke, prematurely introduced by the Ljotic Pod, because he insulted all the honorable Serbian patriots, i.e. members of the Serbian Chetnic movement, because he spoke as a prominent and proven Ljotic about the anti-fascist struggle of General Draža Mihailovic and his followers. Your duty was, because you know very well, as well as the entire Serbian public, that he was Ljotic, that he was one of the main authors of the texts in the Latvian magazine "New Spark", that he was Wolf and Dosite, and I am convinced that he was ready to do it again here now, I guess he was behind what he wrote, calling the pests and the ungodlys, that in the worst possible way, he insulted all of them, through his actions, who were against the Germans and fascists. Now he wants to introduce himself differently, because it's not for the purpose of his continued political action that everyone knows he's a Latvian, and he is. It can't be erased. Please, Mr. Arsic, when you are in the position of the chairman, because your original ideology is this ideology of Serbian nationalism, I guess you as Veroljub Arsic, since you were a longtime member of the Serbian Radical Party, and you know the role of the Chetnik movement, that you always react when this Ljojticevic Bosko Obradovic speaks, because it really offends all those who are descendants of the Chetnik families and all those who have made their own selfless contribution to the liberation of Serbian countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34333	My colleague Jovanovic, I really don't know which ideology my colleague Obradovic will represent when he gets up the other morning, so I let him say this one more time, so that I know we put another line in the ideologies that we have. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34334	Thank you, Chairman. It says nice there – Article 109, paragraph 7, if I am not mistaken – the reminder is given to the MP if it brings out facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. So my exposure was very principled, ideological-political, without mentioning any individuals, let alone investing in someone's private life. On the other hand, you made it possible for Mr. Risticevic to mention my family's private life, to miraculously lie that the Obradovic family had ever been any camp for anyone. That's what everyone in Chačka, in Vranići, knows, that my grandfather was the most ordinary superintendent, who had nothing to do with anything, let alone the Communist Party of Yugoslavia or anything like that. So it's a monster lie. I've already proved five things Risticevic said today that they are all lies and that man would finally have to answer, because he lies 24 hours a day, and no one stops him in that lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34335	Come on, pal. Let's adjust your dictionary a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34336	You have to understand, it's really an insult to my family and I have to be emotional, but I'm going to adapt. Let me explain, then, what the dignity of this National Assembly is collapsing. At no time did I deny the second anti-fascist resistance movement in Serbia, which is the Partizan-Communist movement. I was just talking about something completely different – that if antifascism is highlighted, and it should be pointed out, why is Draža Mihajlovic's general being forgotten? Why don't we know his grave? Look, if we have time, and we don't have time and I won't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we can talk about how Draža and Ljotic united in Slovenia against communism in 1945, for those who don't know it, so we can do this link so that in fact a great national front was created against the communist danger that came and took away tens of thousands of lives, shot, after the release of 1945. So let's be objective... (President: Mr Obradovic, you are bringing an end. Mr. Chairman, that's all I'm asking in the end, to be objective. If anything was good in communism, it was good. But if someone shot at Communism, it's not good, and it has to finally be cleared up and solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34337	I really can't help you. You are asking that the National Assembly be the one to determine someone's historical responsibility, and that when we discuss the law on details relating to military education and education, we as the Assembly establish historical circumstances, that we judge whether someone fired or not. Do you know what you're dealing with right now? Do you realize how serious this is? So, I'm sorry, I have to tell you one more time to refrain from it. There was also a free fight and a civil war. Every excavation of history related to civil war has certain feelings among family members, among all. So I'm asking you to take care of it. Organize stands, organize scientific gatherings, talk about it, but do not abuse the Assembly unless it is a subject of the agenda, and it is not. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? According to the Rules of Procedure, does anyone else want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 103, 108 and 109. Mr. Chairman, you were under obligation, because of that – he is lying, etc., to give some measure to Mr. Obradovic, who used the Rules of Procedure to present his replica to my presentation. So, I didn't make anything up. This is "Iskra" from 1999, where Mr. Obradovic praises Ljotic. Two, Ljotic and Draža were never together in Slovenia. This is some new fact, and I'm just fragrant. He was probably on the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it's a little further than Slovenia, because Ljotic didn't know what Slovenia was and what Bosnia and Herzegovina was. Furthermore, this is from the Chacan newspaper. When everyone in Cačka knows that what I brought out is incorrect, then there would be no such thing in the Chacan newspaper, and it is signed by Dr Petar Jankovic of Cačka, whose party he is now renewing some relations with. So there are 10 claims made publicly at the press conference. When something is in the paper and when it's out, on Mr. Obradovic, it's certainly no secret. If I were to ask if he met with a certain Martin, a member of the U.S. Embassy, I think he'd say it's not true either. So, for everything I've said, and I said there's an apartment in the center of Chačka, and if it's not there, then there's no problem giving it to me. But if he does, I'm happy with the gift. Whatever I bring out, he says I'm lying. But if I'm lying, the papers don't lie. So, either you wrote for "Spru" or you doctored at Ljotic's, under quotes, ideology, where you even fought a guerrilla battle, apparently. You said you'd be guerillaly fighting this government, and that's the same thing from the Dmitry Ljotic doctrine, he said -- we don't need voters, we need fighters, and now the man who called on the guerrilla, I don't like that guerrilla. He also says, in this magazine, he writes that democracy is the older sister of communism. I can't understand this Bosko Obradovic. He'd have to be loved so he could understand what he's saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34339	Is there any more in the Rules of Procedure? The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34340	You know how, when you're talking about a law that you haven't read, or you know anything about it, then you have to make this river of hate, and if you could have the Serbs fight further, if you could have been killed here in front of you, so you could be a judge and root for a winner together with Ustashas or something like that, then you'd be the happiest. The anti-fascism communists are challenged throughout Europe by fascists. All of them. Every fascist in Europe thinks communists are evil, all of them. There's no dilemma. It is very interesting that followers of Dimitri Ljotic speak of anti-fascists. What did you expect? To speak well of them? They can't talk about them, it's stronger than them. You know, on all the warring sides of Serbia, then Yugoslavia, there were many anti-fascists except Dimitri Ljotic. There wasn't a single one. There's no recorded Latvian who was against fascism, so there can't even be followers of the Ljotics who are anti-fascists, he simply can't. I see you'd like the bones to be removed here again. I've been listening recently from Croatia, just the same idea. Look at the wonders! How is it that the idea to remove bones, remeasure and count in the Serbian Parliament? It's the courts that decide on each individual. The National Assembly can't do that, and especially Ljotic's followers can't do that, they don't have the right to do that. There's a Rehabilitation Act. If you want to know, but you don't want to know, Serbia's army gave mail a few days ago to the dead members of the Royal Army of Yugoslavia because they were rehabilitated, because they fought against fascism and act. You don't understand that here. This is where he wants our army to create an ideological organization. You know, the only one who wants to kick us out of the anti-fascist world, and here I'm talking about the partisans, they're Ustasha. The Ustashas say the Partisans didn't fight. Now they're trying to write us out of World War II history. I'm proud of the history of World War I and I'm proud of the history of World War II. We were winners thanks to these people. How dare you spit on their graves? We're proud of every anti-fascist, whether he was wearing a five-pointer or something, but I know that no Latvian wore an anti-fascist sign. Leave this unfortunate people, don't share them. It's a shame to work for our service, and it's no shame to snitch for, as we hear, various attachee military and other foreign embassies? Is that okay? It's acceptable behavior, and it's not when it's war? Let this people heal their wounds, there are enough wounds. We have laws, there are who will, there's what they'll do, everyone will get their place in history, as they've already got. As you can see, this country treats everyone fairly and equally. (President: Bring the end, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry, I overstepped.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34341	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you've injured Article 109. Since the same rules apply to Mr. Minister in this respected home as to the MPs, you were obliged to terminate his offensive exposure. I'm asking you, who does Mr. Secretary mean when he says he's a fascist? I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, do you know what you said? Who are you telling is a fascist? Who are you telling is a fascist... You've fallen into fire. [[Disabled microphone.]] (Dragan Vesovic: What are you talking about? You fell into the fire. Don't insult me. You called me a fascist. Take care of what you say. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34343	My colleague, at no time have I heard that the minister has called you a fascist. He called Ljotic's fascists, and whoever represents their idea finds himself in it, let it be recognized. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34344	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Please apply Article 112 and set a break of a few minutes. I'll quote the Njegos. So, “Time is a master’s solution, and it will cleanse these things, and children’s small things will be entertained. ” We are discussing laws relating to the Serbian Army. Serbia's army, today's Serbia's Army is neither Partisan nor Chetnic, it is an army of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. World War II ended more than 70 years ago. Let's not start another civil war in Serbia. Serbia's biggest enemies now rub their hands and rejoice when they see that the Serb wants to hit the Serb again. Serbia today has many challenges ahead of it. The Serbian Progressive Party is living proof that when you wish well to the state of Serbia, then they are well prepared to work both the descendants of the Chetniks and the descendants of the Partisans. History that we leave history to historians, and we who deal with politics, we who participate in one way or another in managing state affairs to see that Serbia is better, to have more investment, to have more jobs, to have more children in Serbia, to agree and to unite on the issues of resolving Kosovo and Metohija, to maintain co-operation and friendship with our friends in the world, to try than those who are a little less friends to create if not friends, even partners and associates. So these are the challenges Serbia faces today. This debate is ideologically, passionate, debate about partisans, Chetniks, Ljotics, who was with, who killed and in what way, I don't think it leads anywhere. This isn't the agenda. Serbia and the Serbian people need unity, they need harmony, because there are many challenges and many problems Serbia faces today. So I ask you to end this debate that doesn't make much sense, which only divides the Serbian people, which divides Serbia, which opens up some old and well-treated wounds, and then we continue to work on the agenda afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34345	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. I thank you for your help. I'm now setting a break, in accordance with Article 112. We'll continue work at 16 hours and 15 minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further in the debate in detail. National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Milojitsu, you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34347	Thank you, Chairman, I'll use the time of power. We've been listening to various topics today. We have in front of us a set of six laws relating to the life and work of members of the MUP. Of course it's important too, because whoever doesn't have a past can't even have a guaranteed future, but it's not today where we're supposed to share in these or those. Today, we need to think about these extremely important amendments to the law, the amendments we have proposed and how the members of the Serbian Army live. First of all, they preserve the peace and stability of our country and we need them to dedicate these laws, which are probably written for their improvement. Five defence ministers have changed over the last six years, and I'm interested in whether it's enough a year for any man to get into all the pores of the MUP, and I'd like to be told by the educated and serious people sitting here, i.e. members of the Serbian Army General Staff. The military is an extremely complex system, I'm not saying that the rest of the departments aren't, but in the military you have military training, military schools, medicine, agriculture, you have a wide range of what all the military is dealing with, and I think it's a more complex system. You have exports, you have imports, so I think the army is an extremely complex system and it's not enough, whoever's the Secretary of Defense, it's not enough for a year or two or three months to master this matter and it's immediately removed. We talked about unions here and there. Is it necessary or not a union organization? We heard that opinions were shared, and we heard from the President of Parliament that it was in France. I don't just know if you know what the average salary is in France, that the average salary is 2,800 euros, while in Serbia it's about 400 euros. Do we know that a soldier, only in Croatia, that we don't move on, has an average salary, i.e. Sergeant 900 euros. The sergeant in Croatia has 900 euros, so probably our officers. Yes, we should be proud of the officers, the officers and the soldiers of our country, but I ask the question – what legitimacy does the defence minister have for that position? I'm not inclined to that part of the MP who said the minister had to be an expert. No, the minister is a political function and I have no problem with that. The minister is here to conduct a government policy that has run for election and won or not received support, and I have no dilemma there. But I have a dilemma of the political legitimacy that I'm talking about, the current minister. So the Secretary of Defense can be someone of the profession or someone with political legitimacy. The current defence minister, no offense at all, since I keep talking about the military, I'm criticizing the Secretary of Defense, so he doesn't think I have anything personal against him. Of course I have nothing personal against any minister, but I have very personally against how these laws are implemented, because I live in this country, as well as my ancestors, and my children, and I care about Serbia being the best in all the restaurants, in all the ministries, in the economy, in the sport, in agriculture and in the economy. So, we don't have that shared opinion, since I hear the minister often saying that someone is full of hate, he even told the previous speaker from another parliamentary group, I don't want to talk about other parliamentary groups, but the DS is never or will once be an opposition to the state of Serbia. The Democratic Party has and has been and will always be the opposition and the SNS and the way it leads certain resolutions, more specifically to say all resolutions. We asked you to withdraw the BIA Act, you didn't do it. The law is extremely bad not for the DS, but for the safety of Serbian citizens. For days, we've been talking about the adverse consequences of the BIA Act. As we propose to amend and supplement the law for days, a total of 180. As we have suggested 106 amendments, I believe you haven't even read them. I would like someone to tell me at least one amendment that proposed DS of 106 and tell us – we did not propose that and that amendment for that and that reason. I think there are some very serious amendments here. None of the DS amendments are – deleted, none. No DS amendment is a comma. As we propose to amend and supplement the Army Act. I'd like someone to tell me if it's normal for us to have no compatibility between the Army Act and the Defense Act or compatibility between the Army Act and the Emergency Act. I don't think that's normal, which is why I suggest it, and I think it's important for someone to read the amendments, who understands that, of course, and read the proposed amendments to the law and the military and the defence that we propose and tell us what's wrong with it. I thank the distinguished experts and General Radojić, and General Malinović, who have worked with us on these laws and on these amendments and amendments and on these amendments. Someone can't tell me that people who are generals, who have made an honest and honest call, who defended this country even though they were against the policy that led to it, didn't do these things in a good way. Yeah, they did, but all it takes is for someone to read it, who understands it, and then we have a debate on the subject. I ask you one more time, but I see that it is in vain and I appeal first of all for the citizens of Serbia, that first of all the BIA Act is extremely bad. I don't have a problem saying that the Law on the participation of our army in multinational operations is good, and that DS suggested and suggested that there was no professionalization and modernisation of the military...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34348	My colleague Milojic, we're talking about some other laws in particular. The debate in particular cannot be united.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34349	Of course. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34350	Only if you're talking about the amendment submitted by the MP Mirjana Dragas, not what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34351	Mr. Arsic, will you determine the arches and that we all respect these arches or will you not? There can't be an archaic for... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34352	You can't have a co-worker with me. (Radoslav Milojic): Who tells me I can't? You're talking about Draža and Tito hour by hour, and when it comes to military and BIA, which is on the agenda, then we can't talk about it. Take a little stenogram, and see what the President of Parliament and the other MPs have said. ( ) What is the basis of my colleague Komlenski? (Jorge Komlenski: Replica. ) Wait first, if it is a replica, first has the MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34353	Thank you, Your Honor. Now, since someone is complaining that he hasn't read the amendments, first of all, I would say that the esteemed colleague who spoke earlier had not read the amendment, because if he had said something about the amendment. We haven't heard an absolute single word about that amendment. We've heard this one general story about all the laws that are here, and especially the constantly respected colleague insists on this story about how today's members of our army live, so compares with the salaries in Croatia. It's all very nice, you know, but this country is just starting to recover, and for the first time it's come into a situation where, for example, GDP growth is 4.5%. In your time, it was minus 4%. What's key, you say – why doesn't someone have a bigger salary? Well, there's never been a higher salary at the Department of Defense. That's the point, you're the one who led our army to the brink of destruction. For the first time, our military industry is being restarted, something's being produced, we've never sold more ammunition anywhere. Of course, I would really like the minister to say, that we should equip our army and for this IT warfare, not only sell this ammunition to the infantry, which, of course, has a great demand. But don't talk about the D.A.'s salary, because if you'd stayed, I don't think we'd even have an army anymore. That's the point. So, I would ask you in the future, chairing, when someone reports on an amendment to talk about the amendment, to explain why this amendment is good to accept or not, and not to listen to a general story that of course does not stand, serves exclusively for the manipulation of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34354	Thank you. A colleague of Komlenski, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34355	I thank the chairman. It is truly immoral and understandable why the predecessor who caused this replica did not question why, whether there was the legality and legitimacy of the bogeyman with the Jarram market to be the defence minister, the man who hired himself in the federal interior ministry, in 31.12.2002, left and took a severance note of 771.715.92 dinars, signed the obligation not to be employed in state bodies for the next 24 months, but nevertheless, the shopkeeper with Đeram market founded a working relationship after less than a year and this permanent working relationship in the "Southport of SDPR" New Belgrade. So, the question of legality, legitimacy and honesty and education of that minister was to be asked in time, and someone believes that those who have completed some of the Marshalls' correspondence courses in Garmis Partenkirhen are more valuable and capable than our ministers who have completed our most national Academy of Education in the field of national security can only spend their drinking tanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34356	The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34357	Thank you. You know what, it seems to be repeated, repetition is the mother of knowledge. To repeat, I didn't finish the FBI course and I'm not really legitimate on that side to be a defence minister, but I did finish the highest military school in Serbia, so maybe it could be a small legitimacy, but to add another part of the small legitimacy, I'm not the minister to whom the congregation's authority, based on the opinion of all the competent services, has banned the availability and access to classified information because they consider it risky and dangerous. So no one thinks I am. To add, at the time of that government, the Dossow government's salary with all the credits and borrowings in this country was the average salary in the military of 43,101 dinars, today it is 51,000 dinars. Is that not enough? It's not enough. Is it far better than it was? It is far better than it was. I don't know what they were spending that money on, but I have to tell you that those with these kind of salaries from 2008 to 2012 did purchase or contract 20,659,173,000 weapons and military equipment. We, with an increase in credit-free wages, without borrowing, have invested in weapons and military equipment 45,234,144,000 dinars. These are the facts. So, two times as many with increased salaries, with the biggest budget in our army ever, 70.5 billion, and most of it goes right to arms and military equipment, as it should be. So, you here are constantly listening to attacks where, now, you could hear that sentence that keeps repeating -- they were against the policy that led to the bombing but they fought. What policy? Well, that's what Hashim Thaci is trying to prove to you that Serbs are guilty of bombing, so that's what Haradinaj is trying to do, so we hear from Croatia that they're trying to prove to us that we're responsible for everything, and then you listen to it in the Serbian parliament and then, of course, this is going to be transmitted, not about the quality of our laws. Let's read the law and get back to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34358	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a brutally injured member of 107. The gentleman representing the DS, who seems to have become heir to Davidovic and Pekic, presents things he thinks no one can check. Mr. Minister, to be clear to you and your associates and citizens of Serbia, the DS has submitted 106 amendments to this entire set of laws from your portfolio, of which 67 amendments reads - is deleted. Here, I have brought only on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, a total of 45 amendments, MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov. Article 1 - It's wiped out. Article 2 - It's wiped out. Article 3 - It's wiped out. Article 4 - It's wiped out. Article 5 - It's wiped out. Article 6 - It's wiped out. Article 7. - is deleted until Article 45. This is just one law. So they have submitted 45 amendments to one law - it is deleted. The entire set of laws that you have proposed have submitted 106 amendments to it 67 amendments – deleted. And we've been listening all day to the story that in Croatia, the corporal or sergeant has a 900-euro salary, as it is in France and so on. There's only one small thing. In 2012, The SNS did not inherit France, but rather poor, crippled and robbed Serbia by those who are teaching us today how to care for the rights of workers, farmers, officers, officers, soldiers, and so on, and have ruined everything they have reached for 12 years of their rule. They ruined everything, including the Army of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34360	Thank you. On what basis you answer, colleague Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34361	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34362	Whose exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34363	The Rules of Procedure have the right advantages, then there is a gentleman, and I can use my time, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34364	Here, I'll give it to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34365	First of all, I think Europe's history is certainly unrecorded that one former defence minister, does not get a security check in 2016, did not pass the security check in 2015 or 2016. The man was the secretary of defense, that unfortunately for you, because it was pure rematchism. He participated, had access to all the most confidential information and a member of the body... Please don't throw it away. Mr. Arsic, can you explain to your colleagues that they are not so impatient? I know their nerves hit maximum. I know they realize they're going to lose all their privileges very quickly, because the SNS is going to lose the election. I know it hurts them when someone is telling the truth, but I'd like someone to explain to me how someone who's been through security checks since 2000, all of them, in 2015, by coming to power from the SNS, when politics has entered all the pores and when it's decided politically as the Constitutional Court tells us, we've collected over 50,000 signatures to get their kidnapped pensions back, and the Constitutional Court tells us, so it's done for the financial consolidation of the country. What does the Constitutional Court have to do with the country's financial consolidation? I'd like someone to explain that to me. But I know what this has to do with SNS, because SNS wants to control everything. It is a shame that the minister has brought it out a little while ago and I ask you freely not to say it anywhere outside of Serbia, however, no country will let you go anywhere, you can go from Surdulica to Sudotica to walking. Please don't say that anywhere because they'll laugh at the state of Serbia. That they're gonna laugh at you, I don't care, but I don't care if they're laughing at the country that I'm from and where I live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34366	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34367	So now that Dragan Sutanovac received a security clearance in 2000, it's very simple. The goat kept the cabbage. Whenever the goat guards the cabbage, it is easy to obtain a certificate that you passed the security check, but when the government changed, and what Mr. Milojic won't say, Dragan Sutanovac in 2016 failed the security check, so he complained to the court, so the court confirmed that for reasons he could not pass the security check and his appeal was rejected. So it's not just a matter of a congregation committee or a security service refusing to issue a certificate to Dragan Sutanovac, the court has found that there are well-founded legal reasons why Dragan Sutanovac should not be issued a certificate of access to classified information. Here Mr. Milojicic kept asking us a question, ask the gentlemen of the SNS this or that. Here, I am, my dear colleagues, from the SNS terribly concerned. Soon we will lose power by Mr Milojic, Ciric, Jesic and others and we will lose many privileges. Here I am, for example. To lose a collection of over 150 hours, I will lose ten apartments in Belgrade, lose villas, lose art paintings worth hundreds of thousands of euros, lose more than a million euros in savings I have in which I will not be able to fly to the Maldives. So I'm gonna lose a lot of privileges and I'm really scared. I don't know what you're going to lose from these privileges, but we're really in fear, Mr. Minister, because soon we're losing power and my collection of watches goes away, and imagine, I'm here with a collection of watches that I have over 150 won from a minister's salary of about 100,000 dinars and from that salary I've managed to buy a few villas, a few dozen apartments and fly to the Maldives and have art paintings, etc. As that went with my hand, ask the dear God, but somehow it went with my hand, but I was caught alive by fear, because soon I will lose all these privileges, I will be defeated by those who led Serbia until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34368	Slowly fellow Kiric, there are many replicas. The first word has a colleague, Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34369	You know, I was a member of that same board, where today Mr. Milojic, and he knows how to go through that security check, so your blood cells are checking up on you, there's no possibility that someone's cheating on you, lying, that you won't let someone through on purpose, that you don't get a certificate and it's simple, it's something that's not a fact, which is that the former defence minister didn't go through, and now someone's wondering how it's possible that he was a defense minister. Is that what we're asking ourselves? I really wonder how it was possible for him to be the defence minister, but you know, in this country they were also from that Davinic, but I don't know who, they were defence ministers, so we had regular satellite affairs, so I don't know what. And so the army was thoroughly destroyed, and it failed nicely. You know, I'd love to, here you are, Mr. Minister, how did someone get the opportunity at the time of the Minister-in-Office to build certain buildings, installations for military facilities? It was a very interesting affair, especially because it's tied to the Starr, look at the wonders, and who are these Starrs who got a job at the Department of Defense doing this job? It'd be nice to hear that because I think all the public would think about what kind of guys would enter our Department of Defense and get jobs like that. When you ask that question about how he didn't pass that check, it didn't go exactly because they found him everything they found, and it was a much more logical question, and we all wonder here and the whole public how he could have even been the Secretary of Defense, and it's just as much as Mr. Ponos could have been Chief of Staff, to skip every possible instance and to come and be Chief of Staff and so much about your expertise and everything you've been doing for our Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34370	Right on the line, MP Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34371	I thank the chairman. Here's a little bit of an explanation that a thief with a Jarram market, no well-deserved former defence minister has passed security checks. That's when you sell tanks to buy drinks, and to make it easier to sell tanks, to be the assistant secretary of defense for material resources, set up godmothers. And then, along with the maids, drinking tanks, and the maids are assistants to the Minister of Defence for Material Resources from May 2007 to December 2012, followed by the Administration of the Military Police against Kumics to file a criminal offence under Article 359 paragraph 3 of the abuse of official office. It was not only because of the drink and the tank, but because of the "megalink" because together the godmother with some persons abused the official position and acting against regulations that regulate the purchase of equipment of the Army, arms, neglect of the prescribed procedures, all to enable the conclusion of a contract with the "megalink" company in Belgrade, the DOO for the purchase of certain equipment, and I will not mention them for security reasons who it is, and they say, those who have filed a criminal application, no less or less, obtained property benefit from the company "megalink", and at the expense of the Ministry of Defence and the budget of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the amount of over 150 million dinars. So there goes the drink, there goes the tanks, and we wonder why the former ministers are no longer similar to accessing classified information. Very strange.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34372	Right on the line, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34373	The most time in this debate is obviously used to attack one of the former ministers, and it certainly won't help improve these laws that are in this session today. It is an old custom that I have observed and listened to, which is, obviously, the current minister or some people who lead the country's most responsible institutions, try to earn respect, authority, responsibility, by attacking and muddying those predecessors. That's not how you get there, Mr. Minister, the authority of the first man of such an important institution, this important ministry, by attacking and by attacking your contemplators to attack the former minister. For every strong institution, it takes continuity and heirs to inherit what was good from the previous period and to repair what was bad. Obviously, we've been listening, but indeed, lies that many of you can confirm here, which is one of many. Former Minister Sutanovac melted tanks in the Smederjevska ironworks, and that's what's believed to be true here. It's simply not technologically possible and you know yourself, carbon or alloy steel, whether they can melt with existing technology at the Smederevo Ironworks. It's one of the lies that neither the minister nor the military nor this institution need. I think it's best that you go from being honest with yourself, out of your honesty and your relationship to this uniform, your personal relationship, and I want to go away from it, because I'm a backup officer and I wear this uniform with pride and I was a participant in the war in 1999 in missile units. Here I can come out clearly with what I'm doing for this institution and what I'm going to do in the future and as the former chairman of the city board in Nis, and in 1999 I was wearing that uniform in Podujevo in missile units. What did you do? I think that's what you have to testify and gain your authority in front of these generals, in front of the entire Serbian Army, not in such a way as to attack former ministers and to listen to obvious lies about many about them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34374	Right on line, Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34375	I'm really glad to hear that surely one reserve officer cannot agree that Serbia is guilty of being bombed and that it has led to a policy that has led to the bombing, that is, the aggression of the NATO Pact. I'm glad you're different from your party and you don't think our fight was in vain, forced and that our people's fight against aggression was our fault in fact. Great, I'm glad we heard. How do you get authority? Well, it's best to win the election. See what you won in the election? You can see that. I'm sorry that as President or Mayor or City Board of Nis, whatever you said, you did not, for example, honor the military obligations you signed with the army in 2010, that you would give land to the barracks Viktor Bubanj and land to the airport to give hundreds of apartments to the military. You didn't give it. It would have been great if you'd done it. It's a good way to gain authority, say, with this army, just as the City of Nis owes the army 157 hectares today, 157 hectares for the base, as you well know, for the country that was given to the military airport. You know that it is, just as you know, that the apartments were not given to the army, and the land was won and the land was given by the army. So that would be good. Too bad you didn't. Let's talk more about some things that get authority. Authority is being obtained by bringing back those who exactly DOS parties kicked out of the army, brutally declaring them criminals, and forbidding them to approach their army. You know, in that same Nis, which I love and respect very much, in the command of the land army, in the garrison, the third army people were not allowed in, not to organize a celebration, and now they are laughing. They come to their army, who loves and respects them. Why didn't they come sooner? Why haven't they been here since 2000 until now? Because they were gone because you were ashamed of them and their struggles? I'm sorry to have to say this, because it speaks well of our people and speaks well of our relationship. I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34376	National MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34377	I use the time of the parliamentary group, since it requires more time to answer this question and these truths, indeed. First, I was mayor of Nis from 2000 to 2004, and I am proud to have participated together with military members and those brave people who dominated and pulled 30 of the most exclusive missiles, from 300 to 1000 kilos of explosives with uranium charge two kilometers from the city center of Nis. Yes, I am proud that we have restored the airport, that we have established this infrastructure, which is important for both the military and the City of Nis and civilian flights and, of course, for all people living in southeastern Serbia, throughout Serbia. Yes, I was mayor, and I'm proud of it, and the question of whether anyone had the right to come in and if there was co-operation with the then Third Army, you can ask the then chief of the Third Army, General Markovic. You can ask many other officers with whom we had co-operation and with the then bishop, the current Patriarch, and how co-operation was and how ready it was to work on it. About the policy and what you're talking about in 1990, yes, as a member of the Democratic Party, I've always advocated co-operation in the region and trying to find a solution for that former country that deserved, primarily its citizens, a peaceful solution and a search for that solution, and not a way to get into civil wars, and finally to get into the situation of war with the whole world, and then when it happened, of course, that I've gone into battle and that I've defended both my children and my children all of us and that I've been willing to give and my life, which is exactly the message of these people sitting here in the front row and which I respect, because that's the honor and that's the approach in which you say, yes, and I want to do something personal for my country and Serbia's Army. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, what did you do in 1999? Where were you? I'm not going to talk about your messages that we've been listening to, which is why you weren't a member of the reserve system back then, which is why you didn't risk your life, which is why you weren't a member of the Army at the time, and that's why you didn't defend the state, independent of the policy they represented from 1990 to 1999. I say once again, I want to testify with my life, with my actions, and I think it's the most honest of all of us here in these benches, so I expect that from you, and especially from you, from the minister who runs this important resort. I want a personal example, and I'd like to see it in you, which is why you weren't in this uniform in 1999. Give two or three or four explanations that weren't exactly compatible. It is an approach expected by MPs, and I believe the majority of the soldiers, members of the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34378	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34379	Thank you, Chairman. Since I'm from the city of Nis, we need to clear up some dilemma here. A member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly, because the previous speaker spoke, to say in a mild tone, an alternative truth, that I would not use the word from the Wolf's Dictionary – lies. I would ask the previous speaker a question, because what happens to the airport in Nis should be compared to 1996 and 2000, when the Mayor of the City of Nis was Zoran Zivkovic. After that, Goran Ciric came to the mayor's post from 2000 to 2004. Isn't that right, Mr. Kiric? (Maya Vidinovic: It is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Meanwhile, the country's prime minister was from 2003 to 2004, thank God for a short time, Zoran Zivkovic. The question arises why did Zivkovic not transfer the airport from the state to the City of Nis, and that is what you Cirić could do, to transfer the property of the airport from the state to the City of Nis, and not now, since it is now a dilemma, but was done by Prime Minister Cvetkovic in 2010? Just so you know why it was waiting until 2010. Thank you. (Goran Ciric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34380	It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can't get a replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Maya Vidinovic: This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34381	Thank you very much. As you can see, there are no laws being read. Amendments are sent to be "expunged" and then of course we have nothing to talk about. Then, of course, we'll go with the language of personal insults and then we'll go with the language of return to politics, and nothing about what we were supposed to talk about today. Each of us did everything he could to defend his country in a way that he could wherever he could. I'll remind you, and unfortunately you haven't had a chance to remember all along your government in Nis to, say, pass at least a law or a day of civilian sacrifice and NATO aggression. You shouldn't have talked about it at all. You shouldn't have said the word. Now these years, since Alexander Vucic became prime minister, it has begun to mark in this Nis in which you were not allowed to speak out loudly. Of course it is. Regardless of what you've done personally, I congratulate you there, but participation in a policy that has ruined all this and participation in a policy that has knowingly destroyed both the army and our people does not serve you of course honor. You know, it's very simple to speak the language of numbers and I'll try to speak, so I hope we understand each other, so we know who was a friend of our army. Compared to 2008 to 2012, the supply of arms and military equipment increased by 3.7 times, the purchase of uniforms by 3.3 times, the purchase of footwear 5.5 times, the supply of food by 52%. These are inconclusive facts, and no means have been destroyed. A lot of weapons have been purchased, military equipment. Our members are sent to school, and those responsible in the army are respected and given a place in our army. That's what this army looks like, not an army that when it wants to ask why you're removing our moral function, and then the instructors you brought into that army, foreign instructors tell it – your morality and your traditions insult your environment. It's not that army, and of course you'll never forgive me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34382	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34383	To answer these questions, I think it's important. So, I will repeat for those who have no experience in this Assembly that in 1995 the Fund Act was adopted in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, when the Republic of Serbia became the owner of all and real estate and land in Serbia, and that local self-governments were only users of that property. So, at that time, the city of Nis was a user and the status of the Nis military airport was military-civil at that time in 1999-2000. In order to restore that airport, we provided a sixm-euro donation from the Norwegian government, the city of Nis has allocated threem euros and to invest and the city could invest, it was necessary to agree with the military ministry to change the status of the airport from military-civil to civil-military. It was the only change, and it was clear that, God forbid, if we come back to the challenge, that the military would say, come on now, the city of Nis has nothing to look for here anymore, we'll use that airport for military purposes. But we had such an agreement and it is true that by 2003, thanks to the Norwegian government and that donation and the money of the Nish citizens, we have reconstructed that airport and trained it for both civilian and military flights. It's the truth about the city. Otherwise, with the adoption of a new Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia on 14 December 2012, you were in power, you were the majority, so on 14 December 2012, the city of Nis entered property over Nis Airport, and you can see it in the cadastrian books. Let me just, I'll use the MP's time for this part that I'm going to go over, I think it's... . (President: You can't, when it comes to replicas, have no right to do so, end your mind, it's no problem at all. Thus, it is truly inappropriate to call upon the city of Nis not to meet its obligations. We have shown that the town of Nis has the opportunity to activate a 10m-euro banking guarantee for the good performance of works on the "Buban Heroes", which will meet the commitments to the Serbian Army, which is the 10% of the building capacity of 300 000 squares, that is 30,000 squares belonging to the military, and that would be an option. That's why we call on those responsible to activate that guarantee.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34384	Thank you, colleague Kiric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34385	My advertising of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure refers to Article 107. Rules of Procedure, it is a duty to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I am sorry that this Rules of Procedure can only be held in charge of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman. Here's the thing. I think it's a very dishonest and dishonest love of country or country, call whatever you want, if you ask someone or tell them I was at war, and where were you? You know, I could talk a lot about that too, I have another military deadline called participation in the war, but I'm not going to point out that I'm going to attack the minister whether he served the army or not. This does not prove my patriotism, so I do not prove my loyalty to the Serbian state and to the Serbian people. That's not how I show love for my country. If we use it in the National Assembly as a political tool, I can only ask a question, to draw attention to someone, yes, my friend, you love Serbia, but you can't love her more than I do, you can do the same. That's what you prove and what patriotism is. Some, though, may be less, but that's not my problem anymore. So, if we're going back to 1991, we can go back to 1989, when Serbia regained some of its sovereignty in all its territory, we can go to 1991, 1992, and 1999, it's not my problem, but what do we get? To humiliate one another and remind one another who participated in the war, who did not. And let me tell you something... (President: Time, colleague Arsic. I'm finishing up, my colleague Marinkovic. There is no uglier and scarier experience for a man than participation in a war, and don't call on it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34386	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Maja Vidinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34387	Vice-President Marinkovic, the previous speaker received his word in the Rules of Procedure and called for a member. I, as your current chairman, must remind you of what just happened, because unfortunately, this is also one of the things that will enter the history of the National Assembly. So, Article 103, which I call upon and according to the Rules of Procedure, I am telling you, that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the president, an injury in the conduct of the president. Mr. Arsic, as chairman of the National Assembly, chaired the National Assembly, then left the National Assembly chairmanship to you, sat down in the benches and appeared, behold, to point to an injury in the conduct of President Veroljub Arsic. So MP Veroljub Arsic stood up and abused the Rules of Procedure by saying that the chairman, Veroljub Arsic, had injured the Rules of Procedure. Not only that, but it is a way that it is clear to everyone that the misused Rules of Procedure have been used and I call upon it that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, because you should not have allowed anyone, not the SNS MP, to count the blood grains of patriots and morals to anyone, not the head of the DS parliamentary group. So, about what he hurt, I call myself and say that you hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you should not have allowed such a thing, regardless of what Mr. Arsic is trying to do at the same time in two functions, you must not tolerate such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34388	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, because my colleague Arsic advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure after the speech, a replica of MP Ciric. He did not advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure while he was chairman, but after the replica, therefore, Mr. Ciric's speech. I think that's quite clear and that you agree with that. Of course, we won't allow it, and it's not right, it would be very bad for parliament to count, no one counted blood cells, so we'll continue in democratic manners, hopefully, with this debate. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Maya Vidinović: Of course.) All right. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34389	Article 104, Mr. Chairman. I'm telling you in advance, I'm not asking you to make a statement, because I realize that your role and position are not at all as easy in a session as this, when things like this are spoken of in a completely unacceptable way and when people absolutely don't care what they say and how they perform their duties as MPs. Since this was clearly used as a replica, I think it was necessary to act more energetically the moment when it was seen that it was a clear abuse, and it was a clear abuse, because the replica was used to give Mr. Arsic a harsh answer here. 6 Mr. Arsic did not count any blood cells. Mr. Arsic has not accused anyone here of lack of patriotism. Mr Arsic, on the contrary, said here that there is only a point, that there is only good manners at the moment you say – we love the country, we love it the same and don't let us share about it. That's what Mr. Arsic said. And what is unacceptable, is that it is taken into protection, by any personal example, however positive it is, uncommonly precisely in terms of relations with the state, which is unfairly, to explain to you exactly what I mean, that is when someone, unfortunately, I have to say, in the function of the MP takes and accuses their own country, and they have done this in this room, some who are sitting next to you, some who have stood up and given themselves the right to say that Serbia, that Belgrade is guilty of the destruction of Yugoslavia, that they are guilty of bombing this country, that they are guilty of crimes in a war that we did not cause, in a war that our people have tried to avoid to the extreme limits, kept peace and once a common state until the last moment, the only one in the former state who did so. Now, someone gives himself the right to stand up and accuse his own people, it's bad, it's, to meet you, it's dishonest and it's dishonest to defend such behavior. Let your colleague be a hundred times, share a party and any bench a hundred times, something like that is unacceptable. And don't mind at all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for such actions. Those who have allowed themselves such statements, such are deep below the censorship line, never again will they get one vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34390	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word is made by MP Igor Becic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34391	I'm reporting to Rules of Procedure, Rule 105. Mr. Chairman, you let the yellow company get there while the distinguished Mr. Orlic spoke. If someone from this yellow bloc in the party election process represents the former provincial prime minister, who was destroying on behalf of his party a systematic rural budget at the expense of the people of Vojvodina and municipalities in Vojvodina, or this other current representing the former military minister who destroyed military resources and Serbia's military resources by sending her material assets to the melting plants and wastes, where he eventually sent his party, and for the result not only had a pasture on Vracar, but also the fact that she could not pass the security check and obtain a trust certificate from her country, it could be less hypocritical and admit that it was incorrect that the mud was the BIA director and the minister of the military only because they had the confidence of SNS citizens, but that she would recognise the results they achieved in these resors, and also the quality trend that we have in BIA since the arrival of the new director. Thank you. I'm not asking the Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34392	Thank you, colleague Becic. The MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Stefana Miladanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34393	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the Ministry, I would first of all like to express one special satisfaction that we held in the morning session a constructive debate in line with what this House deserves and that after the last break we are having a constructive debate again. Today we are discussing the Law on Military Education, and it is extremely important to note, since we are not talking about the agenda point so backwards or not at least in the way that we should, so simply the citizens who are now involved in the transfer should know that. When it comes to the amendment, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. It is a different formulation of the position of the first member. I realized that the government did not accept this solution, because the reasoning states that this amendment cannot be accepted because the proposed Article 1 of Article 1 is closer to reflecting and determining the essence of the subject matter of regulation of the law itself. This certainly isn't the essential proposal I've submitted, but it's only about the formulation. I sincerely hope that in further discussion we will really talk about the agenda point, and when it comes to tradition, I really want to appeal to all my colleagues that today we are talking about tradition, one rich tradition that we have as a state, and when it comes to military education and that we are also being watched by former and present students from the Military Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34394	Thank you, colleague. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Millysav Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34395	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Representatives of the Army and Military Education, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The law on military education, similar to my colleagues who have spoken so far, and I want to explain very briefly. Before that, I would like to say, since there is an attempt here to transfer the ruling majority to have a large number of objections to the law, that the law is not good and that, for that reason, amendments are submitted, immediately to be clear, I have absolutely no objections, nor my parliamentary group. On the contrary, I think it's a great proposed law on military education. What did we submit the amendment for? The amendment is of a technical nature. It refers to Article 1. It's just a formulation. It doesn't get into the essence of the law. We just thought one word should be added. Why Article 1? Why does it matter? It is important for us because, in fact, through Article 1, we determine what we want with the law, what law we want, what system of military education, what law to regulate, what objectives, which principles, how to regulate the part relating to the specificity of military education, and how to be part of the education system at the same time, how to regulate the training, the organisation of military education, student programmes, the position of teachers, students, students, cadets, etc. So we determine what law it should be and what it should regulate. We felt it was necessary to add the word “system”, but we have no problem with any such formulation given, because it is not a fundamental amendment. Furthermore, when the law is observed, everything has just been done and processed in the best possible way and we are absolutely satisfied because a very important law has been proposed of importance for Serbia's defence, on the one hand, but also as part of Serbia's education system in general, on the other hand. We even believe that, in addition to being good at passing this law, it is also the obligation of Serbia, especially if Serbia is known for its quality and long tradition of military education. Of course, we are proud of those who surrender and those who receive and apply knowledge. We give full support to the proposed Higher Education Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34396	Thank you, fellow Petronievich. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Nenad Bozic, Vladimir Djuric and Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34397	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable officers of the Serbian Army, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted this amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law, and that's on point 1. The amendment proposed that in the 1st position, relating to the introduction provisions of the bill, the word "military" in the section relating to professional training for the needs of the Serbian Army is deleted. We in the SRS believe it is written too high, given that it is then written that it is a matter of professional training for the needs of Serbia's defence and military. Our intention was to avoid duplicating the terms in this bill. Otherwise, this law is passed with a delay of nearly 10 years. The responsibility for this is borne by both of the authorities from 2008 to today. The promoter simply does not have the right to blame his predecessors exclusively for this lateness, as representatives of the previous authorities bear part of the responsibility for the period in which they were in power. Today's furniture has been in power since 2012. The period of six years is not short, and it was time for this material to be regulated by a new law. The amendment, which I filed in front of the SRS, aims to contribute to the adoption of the best text of the law. If it's already too late to pass the law, I'm thinking, at least when it's adopted, it's a quality text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34398	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article has been defined as the subject of military education, as the basic objectives and principles of military education. I have submitted an amendment to delete "in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia" in attitude 1. I find it excessive to point out the subject matter of the law itself, is to coordinate military education, with the very system of education itself. Serbia's education system has been high-level, including education, both sub-officer and officer personnel. From the moment we began to comply with the laws of the EU, most of these laws or are prescribed, we have been moving from then on to the solar system of education in Serbia. The educated military chamber that was coming out, both from both the post-officer and the officer, before the Petoctobar coup was a high-profile and main pillar of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. The Dossian regime systematically and deliberately destroyed the army, a highly military technique. The Serbian Radical Party believes that much more has been destroyed, both tanks and haubica, of 500, as Mr. Minister told us in his presentation. At that point, we had about 1,024 tanks, so you can imagine how much was destroyed under the parole that was obsolete. Nothing personal, Mr. Minister, no hate, of course, but the military, according to my information, and you know that Serbian radicals have always been well informed, unfortunately, most often today armed with trimmers, brooms and shovels. I ask you, is this the most modern weapon of the Republic of Serbia at this time? Why am I saying this? Because the SRS supports the professionalization of the military, which is more based on cleaning and physical work, and less and less on weapons training, perfection and the like. And such a relationship acts destructively on people's interest in their engagement in Serbia's military and increasingly there are those who leave, unfortunately, Serbia's Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34400	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Minister Alexander Vulin has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34401	I'll do it for a while. Thank you for your efforts. I totally understand what you're saying. Yes, there is an objective need for people to spend more time in what they came to the military, in primary duties, than in the secondary duties that you state, and in keeping the circle or the barracks and everything else. What's the only cure for that is a bigger and better filling. In order to get bigger and better filled up, a whole package must be done – pay must be raised, life conditions must be improved and that is what we do. Can you do that right now? He can't. Of course he can't. You yourself said how planned and systematic an army was destroyed, on purpose. Terrans are the best, trying to destroy both capacities, even housing capacity, which is banal. You need to put those people somewhere now. And now, for the first time, you've been very often renewing it since NATO aggression. So, yes, I absolutely believe that the military must work much more, primarily on the issue of training, to allow it to do so. Because, you know, when you get new MiGs, it's a new tool, when you expect the BRDs to come, when you expect new tanks to come, which are the most modern means, when you see what our dedicated industry has, they are really the most modern means, the most modern that we can get and enable, like all the systems we're talking about. But what you're talking about is completely legitimate and exactly the entire military system is working on how to increase the fill. It's a fundamental question and that's the main thing. Here you have, you know, the economic criteria, which are what they are. The salary in the army was never the biggest and it always had to be worn on the market. Only in the package, which we're talking about, from the ease of getting an apartment, the employment of a spouse, different treatment, you can expect that someone for that money that we have, because, let's face it, we're not Sweden, we can't compare to Sweden, and we're probably never going to be able to, but only in that way, in general, we'll be able to hope and fight, we have nothing to hope for, exactly what you're talking about and thank you for that well-intentioned remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34402	Thank you, Minister. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished officers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and to planning and organising. When I compared this current 1994 law and this bill, I saw that about 80% were prescribed, but I noticed one significant difference. The Chief of Staff is no longer asking any questions, while he has been given a lot of ingenuity in the current law. There is no general staff in this bill of law. It's all transferred to the Department of Defense. So now, instead of high-ranking officers who have dedicated their lives to the military, will plan and organise the military education of the minister, who is a civilian person and whose function is political. I think this is bad for the Army, and above all it's humiliating and destructive for the entire professional military chamber. Since this law will surely be passed as it is, planning and organising military education must be dealt with urgently by a sublegal act, otherwise we are going to end the war of Serbia in ruins as well. Let's leave military education to the experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34404	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34405	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, amendments to the Bill on Military Education, the SRS parliamentary group intends to correct the shortcomings of this proposal, but also to point out to the public the really serious need to finally get real, feasible and above all tailored training of officer personnel. In Article 1 The bill that I have submitted to the amendment is spoken of, more specifically, what is being regulated in this area. Not to read the text of the proposal, it covers the widest spectrum, from funding educational institutions, to the position of teachers and students. I think our army is getting on its feet a little bit. We are witnessing that something is happening in a positive direction. From our domestic projects, different armored transports, to the planes that came to us from the Russian Federation. So, the situation in the army is improving, there's new weapons, but I'm not sure there's enough. I want to believe that we will be able to endure the modernisation and completion of the military arsenal, which is one of today's imperatives, no matter how much this country is seeking and stability in the entire Balkans. When I said the army seemed to be standing on its feet, I was thinking of the next one. The army of Serbia, which was almost untouched from the war with the entire NATO pact, was literally destroyed by an internal enemy. What NATO failed with massive bombs, rockets, the pursuits of thousands of terrorists on KIM, that's what a domestic traitor's bolument has done with a feather move. Obedience, listening to US and its European accomplices' orders, immediately after the October 5th 2000 coup, began destroying military weapons and worse still, the persecution of our heroes who defended and defended the state of Serbia began. In my opinion, their heroism is due to the fact that the Army as an institution still has an envious public rating. Unfortunately, it is not yet the end of the chase on Serbian soldiers and officers from past wars. We are witnessing that any organizations that are paid by foreigners are regularly muddy in all ways, but regardless, among young people there is a great flight, a great interest in calling officers or soldiers, but as in each and every other and here are the personal receipts of one of the factors that makes this interest think with restraint. It certainly has to be dealt with urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34406	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34407	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 1. The proposal for a law on military education, I have submitted an amendment to replace the text "as well as others" in the first sentence, with the wording "as all" because of the more precise definition of issues of importance for the functioning and development of military education. This member shall regulate the subject of military education, as well as its basic objectives and principles. Military education includes education, training and professional training for defence purposes. Knowledge acquired in military schools is specific and continuous improvement and raising to a higher level is necessary. Military education is important not only as a military call, but also for a system of defence in general. Unfortunately, we don't have the right defence strategy, and we should worry about our country's security, strengthen our position. This is only possible if we give up the devastating policy of military neutrality and if Serbia joins the ODKB, or collective security response organisation, to join the military alliance with the Russian Federation at the helm. Joining this military alliance would also protect Serbia from the Western impact, and that is the only way to protect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It would also be good if the Russian Federation established its bases in Serbia. That would raise the level of security to a higher level. It would also reduce the cost of military equipment, as a good part of the weapons would be granted under favourable conditions and part free of charge. In this way, conditions would be created for raising the standard of living of soldiers and officers, and conditions would be created for more funds to be invested in military education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34408	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry and the Army of the Republic of Serbia, I am sorry that this is the way Parliament's work will not allow us to talk about other important laws in this area, but then. I want to commend you all the time, in full composition, military discipline, listening to all these stories of ours that weren't often interesting to listen to. Mr. Minister, I don't think you brought any problems into the system you led, but last week when you spoke in a united debate on these laws, and justifying the participation of our peacemakers in various peace missions, you said it was a negligible number. I do not agree, however, because several hundred of Serbia's most qualified and best trained members are not negligible numbers for any much greater and stronger military force than that of Serbia. You've justified that they get experience there, and you've given me no idea how many classes of fighting resources, tanks, etc. I would always return to God a ticket to such a paradise, for what our representatives will do in various missions of the world. The Serbian Radical Party is against every participation and engagement of our members and our army in any missions, because all those places where the peacemakers are sent are potential war hotspots. What are we doing in them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34410	The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34411	Mr. Minister, our authorised representative was talking about the lack of appreciation for the war experience of our celebrated officers and I have to do it now for the public, because perhaps you gentlemen know it, to potential something that's going on in the Russian Federation. There it was introduced as a mandatory subject in post-graduate studies subject to the military experience Russia has as a major and powerful state, and you know well and the position of the Serbian Radical Party that it is necessary to raise the issue of our membership in the ODKB in order to have a strong military alliance with Russia and to resist all future challenges and all that our enemies from the West are preparing for us. However, I must now take advantage of this situation, Mr. Vulin, and also give you a possible opportunity if you want to talk about it, to comment on a recent meeting held at the General Staff, when all the former Chiefs of Staff were invited. The invitation was also answered by Zdravko Ponos, who the public knows is the vice president of this party, Vuk Jeremic, and he is in fact a great disgrace and shame. This waste of the yellow regime, which was caused by many damages to Serbia's military, especially because of the fact that even now as former Chief of Staff, the Serbian army is continuing to muddle, so a few days ago on a live TV show all the worst spoke, and that we have no idea what kind of weapons, and our co-operation with the Russians and all the most modern tanks and weapons we got from the Russian brothers, all of which he talked about the ugliest, and it's really embarrassing. If someone is to come to the General Staff, if someone is to receive the most military honors and merits, they are such Serbian generals as General Delic and all those who have just through their military activities and experience resisted the enemy and saved the Serb people and Serbian territory. So, something like this never to happen again, because just, you see, that traitor used it and said that he went there, it was probably a protocol guy, and he was giving advice. Well, he can advise Colindu and Androkovic, and certainly not you, Mr. Minister, and the honorable Serb soldiers and officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34412	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34413	Madam President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished gentlemen and representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer a little bit to the history of the Security and BIA Service. The development of the Security Service after World War II, in the former Yugoslavia, is the establishment of OZNA, the Department for the Protection of Peoples. After that, the administration of state security is also established on these foundations, then after Perast in the State Security Service, and then in the security portfolio, as one of the two security buffers at the MUP, and this security portfolio and another public security portfolio. However, in 2002, the law established, as a special agency of the Serbian government, BIA. Compared to the amendment proposal and the addition of the BIA law, I point to the following. Starting in 2000, the Security Services have been established as an information agency and the VOA. They began to collapse professionally, in a crafty sense, and thus they were no longer able to respond adequately, with numerous challenges and circumstances, to respond to the protection of their country. I don't want to mention them, but it's well known to the public, and it's also well known to you. The question arises, on what criteria are leaders and leaders brought to certain key BIA sites? In order for the Agency to successfully carry out its tasks, it should go from the following, the way the Agency's director is elected, who is otherwise appointed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Is there a security check being carried out for the director of the BIA? Do the Committee in the National Assembly and the MPs have any opportunity to ask a question and ask whether all BIA directors have been checked since 2000 until today and whether they have received a positive check or received a negative check? Have any of these directors and any security checks been made at all? After the term of office of director, the new director must verify whether a security check has been carried out for the previous BIA director. One question arises – are some former BIA directors now performing certain tasks and tasks in favour of foreign intelligence services and have some of them been recruited? Foreign intelligence services active in Serbia, we have MI6, it's the intelligence service of Great Britain, the GNI German intelligence service, the US CIA service, DGSE French Intelligence Service and the Croatian SOA Security Intelligence Agency. These are the most active in Serbia's space. All Western services are interested in destroying the security of the Republic of Serbia. So BIA's co-operation with foreign intelligence services is very interesting and this co-operation has to be very controlled. It is known which segments should carry out this international co-operation on intelligence. It may be done when it comes to countering terrorism or organised crime, but at any cost working with some foreign intelligence services without strong control is very risky. Therefore, I believe that the intelligence agency should be protected and oppose all objections to the territorial integrity and security of our country. One question for Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, can I only ask you to answer me – will the Army participate and help complete the journey from Negbin village to the village of Jasenovo? The army began in 1997 and 1998, not nearly completed by Negbina, via Gojgić, Kusna to Jasenov for about four, five kilometers, so I would be able to suggest and ask you that if there are material and financial opportunities for the military to help the municipality of Nova Varoš, this is a strategic road in the Raška area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34414	Thank you, colleague Jojic. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MPplatimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34415	The Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers with Associates, Representatives of the Army, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, as well as my colleagues from the SPS Group, have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on military education to Article 1 which reads - in Article 1(1). The bill of law of the word “students” is replaced by the word in brackets: “(students)”. The amendment shall implement a legal and technical order which is to pass on to the greater normative accuracy of the provision, which means that the proposed amendment does not substantially change the meaning of this article. It should also be pointed out that a legal-technical editorial, or legal-technical adjustment of an act, has the meaning of bringing its text down to a nomotechnically common rule. Military education is of special importance to the Republic of Serbia, it said in a three-day principle debate. In particular, the outstanding personnel potential of members of our military forces on whose education, recruitment and education are concerned by extremely high-quality higher-school military institutions, as well as the General Staff of the Serbian Army. The specific objectives of military education are the training and training of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil servants and citizens to carry out the tasks and tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. It is also of paramount importance to invest in the development of scientific and research and expert personnel for defence purposes and the Serbian Army. The proposed solution is based on the prescribed powers of the Ministry of Defence in the field of military education and the obligation of harmonisation with the education system in the Republic of Serbia. Education reforms aim to set up a new, modern, efficient and functional system of military education. The formation of the Military University brings together the work of the Military Academy, the Military Academy, while reforming and reorganising the high school system will give us a strong and professional frame that will meet Serbia's military needs and tasks. This legislative proposal, which represents the final phase of the military's defence reform and education system, also enables the formation of mixed departments with the aim of quality youth education in order to function effectively in our defence and security system. I call on fellow Members to support the proposed amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34416	Thank you. The MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34417	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, in Article 1st position, 1st word: "for the needs of Serbia's defence and military" is replaced by the words "for the purposes of the defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Army". The amendment does not change the essence, but adds the words "Republic of Serbia". This law regulates the objectives and principles of military education, as well as its specificities in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia. The matter it regulates relates to the establishment, organisation and operation of military schools and military research institutions, i.e. in the areas of secondary and high military education and scientific and research activities of importance for the military and defence of the country. Secondary military education, Military High School, High School of War and Mixed Military School will aim to develop motivation in young people for military calling and schooling. The adoption of this law provides for harmonisation of military education and the introduction of it in one systematic way and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The result of the adoption and application of this law is that we will get a trained professional soldier, both at secondary and high school level, as well as the application of this law in the new school year from 1 September 2018, until all preparations are necessary. An analysis of the current situation suggests that the current law does not comply with the rules governing the education system in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law would complete the process of harmonising regulations and military-school institutions will become an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34418	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Danica Bukvic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34419	Thank you very much. It was worth waiting for. Here, a few hours and we're still on the first term, and it's already a story and an assessment of how this House is under discussion, what the amendments are for, who has the right to propose them, who has the right to defend them, when and how. I wouldn't have had to add much to that subject. I think the Serbian public is absolutely clear what's going on. Let me talk about this amendment to Article 1 which my colleagues and the Club of Independent MPs and I have submitted. In Article 1(1), following the words ‘training for needs’, the word ‘system’ is added, with the idea of adding the necessary word ‘system’ to clearly determine which segment of society is defined in this way. Since it is not right to use the word "defense" only, it must use the "Defense System" syntagma defined by other legal acts. In response, the government says – the government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the general rules regulate the term "defense" to, among other things, be done by organising and preparing defence entities to carry out tasks in war and emergency. I'd like someone to tell me what this means, but it's less important. I'm afraid this debate has gone, of course, as have many times before some other debate in the wrong direction. We had various heroics both in the morning and in the afternoon about who was defending everything, who was all killed, who succeeded in winning military goals, political goals by military means. Unfortunately, the war most speakers were called upon was lost. And, where representatives of the current government, then as young, are not very pioneers, but as young youth, led by their mentors, their political fathers, parents, everywhere they defended Serbs and Serb interests there are no longer Serbs. And that's the historical truth. Unfortunately, that's the case, and no one should be happy about it, nor is it, but that's enough reason to stop being a hero without a foundation and for no reason. We've heard a lot here, including from the minister, that someone denied NATO victims, that by order of some foreign agents, what if, otherwise in Serbia, the embassy is only foreign embassies, we don't have domestic embassies in Serbia, someone could learn that once they're involved in politics, that we denied what happened in 1999. I'm not going to ask who was there then, at the time of the bombing and before that immediately, and after that. As for the city of Nis, which I was then leading and wearing a uniform under the orders of the Chief of Staff of the Third Army, unfortunately I wore a uniform, because it was probably, I was told -- it was decided in the highest place that the mayor was wearing a uniform, I asked if you were normal, so I didn't serve the Army, and in that uniform some people died, not some, but many, it was told to me -- it was decided in the highest place. I've accentuated that correctly. After 20 days, I was told to take off my uniform. I found out that it was because it was estimated to be jumping even to me, because people like uniforms, of course, it's totally natural, and I asked that Chief of Staff of the Third Army which are the effects of my wearing uniform and, of course, no one had to tell me anything smart about it. The city of Nis received a large charter from the Chief of Staff, then, I think it was Pavkovic, was Pavkovic, for a major contribution to the fight against NATO aggression and that is the historical truth. This Charter stands still today in the congregation of the city of Nis. I got a thank-you note from a regiment from the PSC and Air Force, for some special assignment we've been doing and I'm not going to reveal it today. The first mark someone made to the victims of NATO aggression has been made by the city of Nis. I think it was already for Vidovday the same year, or maybe a little later, you don't hold me by my word, but surely in 1999, it's a chapel next to the Low Fortress, a monument to the chapel where it writes – the victims of NATO aggression. And it was done at a time when I was president of the Nish City Assembly and no one could order anything. It is one huge defeat of European civilization to bomb the citizens of a country because the country had abnormal authority at that time. And what I'm telling you right now, I was speaking to you at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Budapest in early 2000, in front of all the representatives of the NATO Pact and pointing to everything they have done to the citizens of my city, to the citizens of Serbia. So anyone hiding under a quartz lamp at the time of the bombing must not say a word to me, to me or to anyone who did anything good for this country at the time. I won't let anyone do that. On the destruction of the army after October 5th, I would like someone, say the minister, to make a formal report and sign it, what, when and how destroyed, I am particularly interested in that part by the end of 2003. This people have had great accidents in their modern history. There's no reason to make these accidents even bigger is that people with no cheeks, no morals, no dicks that never existed, and people who did their job seriously are insulted. It has nothing to do with parties. It has nothing to do with origin. It has to do with the basic settings of normal life. Of course Serbia must have a strong army. Of course, that army should be directed and formed according to its structure in relation to what our defence strategy is, to define where our potential hotspots are, who our enemies are, and how we equip it with modern means. Moments that do not fly a year after being dragged to Belgrade, as well as moments that are due to come from Belarus, which will not fly for another two years, are not modern weapons. It has nothing to do with life. It's one farce, like all this power. So I ask you, first of all, to gentlemen officers, the people of the Ministry who are doing their job professionally, that you take care of what the Serbian Army is, don't let the politicians who were hiding under the quartz lamp at the time of the bombing, that they take care of the Army because it won't be good for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34420	Thank you. Right on line, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34421	Dear Serbian citizens, all of you here, you just heard a terrible sentence. We just found out, and that's what the short-time speaker said that we were bombed, that NATO bombed this country because we had an abnormal government. So that's what Hashim Thaci wouldn't say, that's what Tudjman would say if he were alive. It's a scandal. This deserves a warning. So the man was relativizing. The man justified the bombing, the destruction of this country just because we allegedly had an abnormal power. Are you aware of what he said? This is really something unheard of, the story of how some who have defended in some Serb areas, so Serbs are no longer there. I apologize if you meant it when you turned the ox on the Palace and defied with Radovan Karadzic NATO planes, and today you accuse him of being a war criminal or when Ljubisa Savic Mauser founded DS in Republika Srpska, 1996, the same defendant The Hague that killed you in Bjeljina. That's what you forget. And you're not ashamed to make such a statement. Now, dear citizens, that was your Prime Minister for a while. It's a good thing we survived as a state at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34422	Thank you. We've got more than one report on the Rules of Procedure. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34423	Mr Marinkovic, you were obliged to protect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when MP Zoran Zivkovic spoke for the reasons that he in the most harsh way insulted the dignity of both the Serbian Army and the Republika Srpska Army and the people of Republika Srpska that is now under Ustasha occupation and all the volunteers and all the reservers and all the soldiers who heroically defended our people in Kosovo and Metohija under NATO bombs when their mafia, later prime minister, and then his party mate Zoran Djindjic called for another 15 days to bomb Serbia. That's what a man who doesn't have one single day in the army says didn't serve a military term. A man who dares to take after his evil done to us by his regime after October 5th, and we know well who is responsible for the destruction of both the former Yugoslavia and the breaking up of the unique ethnic, national and religious space on which Serbs lived, precisely his friends who have allowed such debauchery and such traitors of the Serb people to come to power after October 5th. You were obliged to warn him that it is not possible to speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are a sovereign state. We want unification with the Republika Srpska for which many victims have fallen, tens of thousands of victims, several hundred thousand of our countrymen have been expelled for centuries of hearths under the command of the Ustasha military hordes and it is really unacceptable to insult the dignity of all the people's representatives in this way, but it can only be done by someone who, apparently, has nothing on him when he's willing to say such a thing. These are the words for the Ustasha Assembly, not for the Serbian Parliament, because here are people and many colleagues and many have their fathers and their uncles, brothers, who gave everything, as well as gentlemen sitting in uniforms, to defend the centuries-old Serbian countries. We can also proudly say that we are proud and proud of it, here we are in meeting the Day of the Republika Srpska Army for creating the Republic of Serbia, and we will free the Republic of Serbia and that will happen to one.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34424	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. On what basis, colleague Rističević? By amendment. Here you go. Excuse me, wait a minute, first replica Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34425	Not on the Rules of Procedure, but on the replica of a gentleman who recognized himself in the time of the bombing, he was under a quartz lamp, because there's no other reason to get a replica unless he recognized himself in it. I love it when someone learns that sub-cosian cycle of song and recitation, but there's only one problem, which there's no "and" from the truth. I'm sorry some colleagues and some colleagues don't understand what I said, but I recommend they take a stenogram and read what I said carefully. To me, patriotism will not be measured by anyone who was hiding from his shadow, let alone by something that looked like danger. My patriotism, my contribution to the country, you have, I told you in which documents, confessions, and that's not the subject, it was the obligation of anyone who was then of age and able to do anything to defend the country and I am proud of it, but I will never make a circus of it. It's something that's a matter of morality, of cheeks, and it's a question of how you live your life. Is your life a circus where you roll around at night when you don't eat steaks, but you go from blacksmithery to iron shop or I don't know what it is or your life is to do your job so you don't fear what history will in 5, 10, 20 or 100 years to say about you and the time when you had some important function, because it's not after that function, but while you're responsible for some function. So, I want you to never come to any war again, and if you happen to come here and defend us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34426	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34427	If a man from the prime minister's position can't do anything, I don't know what other political function to run for office to do anything. You asked me about the report, what was destroyed from 2003 to 2008, so let me tell you now. So 398 armored vehicles were destroyed, which would say 200 tanks, 121 armored transports, single tools M36 77 pieces, means a total of 398. The artillery tool destroyed 215. From the firing and light weapons of 23,132 pieces. Of the rocket, the famous "Strela 2M" destroyed 9,218 pieces, the “Strell 2M” launcher, 420 pieces were destroyed, a total of 3,3.383 different pieces of weapons. NATO has not nearly been able to destroy this much, not too close, but not only has the technique been destroyed, the army has been destroyed, and it has been reduced in a plan, by reducing, disbanded its units, which in every way has been reduced, by disbanded by its officers, its most prominent officers, either exiled to retirement or to The Hague, depending on what they've been asked for. That might be the hardest thing to make up for, people. We'll buy weapons, as you can see, we buy, but people and people's trust in their country they fought for, and after that, the first time they were expelled, retired, hard, and that's what we're coming back with, and what we're actually fighting with. You know, those years in the first place as never in the history of this country officers, officers, if necessary, are forced to retire, and indeed thousands of them, young, capable people, people who are now not easy to return, because it's been over 20 years and it's not easy to get those people back, but these are the people who, when they were in power, were expelled from their army and were expelled planically. Why didn't you buy a moment in all that time? Just give us one, one, one. You bought total weapons, the total rocket was bought for eight million euros, and you think that can be fought by flying? For eight million? We're buying for tens of millions today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34428	Thank you, Minister. Right on the replica Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34429	You know, I didn't need to recognize myself in anything that the former speaker pointed out and I agree with him that history is for all of us, that he's going to say something and that something stays behind each one of us. I'm very proud of never being able to compare myself to him. I've never received from the state, just because I've been a loan-free official to get, or buy a vineyard, I've never done it, nor will I do it, nor do I think of stealing my own country, and that's what someone else was doing. That's why it's good that we have history, because the history of life is a teacher, and it's just that those who claim that we've been bombed because we had an abnormal power that justifies all the victims here because, as we're supposed to, we've had an abnormal power, it's that these guys never have the opportunity to reach any authority again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34430	We're closing a circle of replicas. We're going after the amendments. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, there is a saying: the greatest authority is to rule over it. He who cannot rule over himself cannot rule over others. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case with us. This is where we heard one of the Nick's liberators who didn't Quarttle. What did he set free? He brought Nisa great freedom. He freed Nis himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34432	My colleague Rističević, can you do it by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34433	According to the amendment, it's just as much as my fellow farmer talked about the amendment, I'm going to talk about various weapons, patriotism, etc. There, I doubted his explanation and except that he freed Nis himself, freed 2,108 Albanian terrorists and among them Mazeku brothers, it seems to me that one was convicted of raping a nine-year-old Serbian girl. Released Dreničko-Jakovičko group. So he is a free man. Let's move on. I also knew Milet Perisic, an honest patriot, met the entire DS delegation in Pala, i.e. in Jahorina, personally with my own eyes, Mile Korićanac, Mićović, Mile Perisic, etc. Of course I didn't see him. The war was lost, he said, and he said he was wearing a uniform. He worked both ways. He carried the military money, the Target firm, and Ju Guarantee Bank was a military bank. It singled out 1,250,000 German marks and 100,000 dollars for a possible land attack totalling 1,500,000 marks to acquire tank ammunition for Serbia-Montenegro's Army in the event of a land attack. The money was given to my fellow farmer to deliver Dimitrovgrad to a designated Russian, and it would be an advance for the purchase of tank ammunition. That's where the money and the Russian were lost. So he did lose something, lost money, the war didn't. He wore a uniform for a short time, but he carried both the money and lost track of it. He was also talking about accidents. Nis, and Serbia, too, had one accident, for my fellow farmer to be prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34434	By amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34435	I will continue this tradition, to speak only of the essence of the amendment. It's very sad to see how much nonsense someone can think of, and it can be solved by military education. Imagine someone gave me money in 1999 to buy ammunition for the Yugoslav Army? It's a serious disease or an evil intention. Very interesting that the mayor of the opposition then the largest opposition city in Serbia gives money that he buys from the Russians, and I, as a famous Russian, buys ammunition that should be used to defend against the land attack on the former Yugoslavia? This is really genius. It can be true and it can be a lie. If true, it means that the government then had no confidence in anyone, not in the officers of the time, not in the ministers, let's say, information, or defense, or those hiding under the quartz lamps. They didn't trust anyone, but me, because they gave me that money to carry, to buy Russian weapons, or is it all one big lie? But the lie has become a part of life and, unfortunately, it's not good, but it is. The minister said what was destroyed between 2003 and 2008. It was not my question, my question was anything that was destroyed by 2004, as I could bear some responsibility for it, although the Serbian government then had no jurisdiction over the Yugoslav Army, but, never mind, I can answer politically. Who was that destroying? Was that against the law? If it was against the law, why didn't this patriotic, the best in the world, my mother, my mother-in-law take my measures? If someone's destroying military equipment, well, that's, I don't know if it's called high treason, but, Colloquially, it's high treason. Well, is anyone under arrest for that? He doesn't have to interrupt the court. No, there isn't. It's a joke. It's the best expression I can use around something people don't know anything about. Some Albanian terrorists are being talked about. You have one publication presented by the Serbian government in September 2003. It's called "Albanian terrorism on the territory of then still the AP Kosovo", where all the significant terrorists on the ground are listed and that was done when I was Prime Minister and they had warrants and there was also a scheme of their organisation and a precise list of everything they did against the population, state, property. With at least four of them, the power of Alexander Vukic is leading the negotiations on Kosovo and the real coalition in the independent Kosovo parliament, what do these terrorists call Kosovo today, and you're going to transfer someone to do something before? It's a mess. So I'm telling you that what's happening to you right now, that you have some little power, some of you, the one who has the greatest is not with you, he's already gone far from you, but you're not aware of it. Think about what happens tomorrow. When you climb to the top of the hill after that, you know you can only come down. When you get to the top of the government by playing the case or, I don't know, by social circumstances, on the day you're elected minister or something else above that, you realize that the next step goes down, that it's zenith, and that after that you need to go back, to walk on the ground, asphalt, fields, slags, who and who. I'm telling you there's also power after the term of office and there's another better thing, there's life after the term of office. It means being something, doing your job honorably, getting off the scene of the Home Secretary, the Mayor, the Prime Minister, and living normally for decades afterwards, not having the need for security, not to turn around on the street, not to hide, not to carry a dirty bag on your head, but to live a normal life. I invite you to return to the old good country and think about what awaits you when you leave power, and I wish you a long and successful life and good health.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34436	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34437	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems we need to translate some things here, because some people keep pretending not to understand what some things mean, that they don't understand what the things they say themselves mean. It's unacceptable to say something like that, and some here like to say it often, where some Serbs defend Serbs are gone. It's unacceptable because, look at the structure, not where the people attacked the people, but where some people defended, where the people defended themselves, there is no one there to translate what it means. He said, "It is a mistake for the people to defend themselves." He said, “It is not the one who was a threat to the people. That's what he said if we don't understand what he said. When it's said, the bombed country because it had an abnormal power to translate, it's the country's fault, it's her power. So to translate, it's not those who have destroyed international law, it's not the ones who gave themselves away just because they're big and strong enough to judge whether they like some authority or some opposition, to be masters of life and death just because they're big and strong. No, it's your fault that got hurt. If he doesn't understand what he said, that's what he said. There's a responsibility. And when you participate in some venture that results in the destruction of some military technique, you bear responsibility. When you bring someone to power, and he's a pest and the earth is ruined, you're held accountable. When you make someone get legitimacy, even if he's a terrorist, and now he represents someone because of what you've given him, you're responsible. It has been said that there are accidents that have nothing to do with parties, accidents that happen to certain peoples, there are, it's true. Do you know which are the largest? Those who do not threaten the people physically, those who do not lead the greater, the more powerful and the more powerful to live, and the greatest are those whom the people of the righteous, the people of the oppressed, cause them to accept slave morale and accuse themselves of what happened to him, and justify the one who caused him the accident. They're the biggest accidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34438	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34439	I would ask you to set up a practice, not translate what I'm saying, as I speak Serbian. I am Nischlia, but I'm using all the downfalls, focusing, I think, rightly so there's no need to translate what I'm saying. If it's not clear to anyone, I can say it again, tell it again, let me get this straight. You can get it in writing, but every citizen of Serbia who has the opportunity to see this transmission has heard that I have condemned this NATO pact bahanali not only today, but also in 1999 and 2000 and 2001 and there is always no need to prove it. You have historical documents. You have whatever you want, wherever you want to check it out. And when the bombs were going down, unfortunately, I was there with others a hundred yards from that and I took care of everything that could be done. That, I repeat, is no big hero act, it's a perfectly normal thing. That's what every responsible authority does. You can try to insult me for all you want, but that's pointless. That's what I'm talking about. It's waiting for you the moment you come back from power to asphalt and start living a normal life, if you lived it normally before you became power. That's why I'm warning you to watch what you're saying right now. It's no threat, I'm just telling you to think about it, because people will remember what you said, so they'll remind you. You'll be embarrassed. It's nice to live, I repeat, here's how long it's been, 15 years after your term of office, living normally, without any burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34440	You're bringing the end, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34441	I still have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34442	You can't take it from the replica anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34443	No, no, it's not a replica, and yes, the replica, I'm sorry. I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34444	A fellow Delic, right on the line. I didn't hear it, but I was warned that the SRS was mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34445	I must, for the sake of truth, declare certain facts that all MPs should hear. Mr. Zivkovic was in America as prime minister on July 24th 2003. That's where he met with Colin Powell. There, Mr. Zivkovic promised 800 soldiers for Afghanistan, and CNN said it was 1,000 soldiers for Iraq and Afghanistan. On the return of Mr. Zivkovic from America, we were assigned to the General Staff to prepare 800 soldiers for Afghanistan for the search and destruction actions. They needed our soldiers to go to Afghanistan, to kill the Afghan people for America's expense. I was V.D. at the time. Chief of Operational Administration, which is the administration that is working on the war plan, the mobilization plan, the strategic development plan, means all the most important orders are written here. At the College of Chiefs of Staff, decisions have already been made -- we're going with our boos, with our equipment that we had. I, to say the least, said that our army had nothing but a firearm, which could appear in Afghanistan. I said that we could find 800 people anyway, but what is this interest of ours, and I told the Chief of Staff - you will be responsible for the coffins that will start arriving from Afghanistan. You have to. If we have to go to Afghanistan, to ask the same government and Mr. Zivkovic to provide 50 million dollars tomorrow, and in six months another 50 million dollars to buy equipment from Russia, it was the BRDs 80 and 82, because it was the only equipment that could go there. (President: Bringing the end, colleague Delic.) ) And, when I probably didn't get a chance to meet Mr. Zivkovic, but probably that request from the military to immediately, right now, secure $100 million and to provide a year of training for an army that will go to Afghanistan, that story is over, and that's how we stopped our soldiers from going to kill people in Afghanistan, and that's what Mr. Zivkovic promised in America.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34446	Take it easy, colleague Zivkovic. First right to the replica of MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34447	It's been said here that we take good care, that one of our words doesn't remember, that we wouldn't be embarrassed by accident. It was also said that someone felt terribly offended by those words. I'm not sure what, unless he's identified in that biggest accident that a nation can happen, which is clearly appointed. If he recognized himself, I recognized myself, certainly nothing offensive, nothing personal there was for anyone. If we're talking about something being remembered, then great, then it's really great. We say these things to be heard and remembered. We say these things precisely because we are aware of what is most devastating and what is the greatest danger for a people who find themselves in a situation like this where a Serb people have found themselves in the past two or three decades, in the challenges they face today. Once again, the defeat of a nation is not difficult if he encounters difficult circumstances during a period of his existence. It's not the hardest defeat if it's run into the greatest force on the planet since when that planet exists. Defeat is the greatest possible if this slave morale is accepted and someone bows his head and says – it is my fault for all the misfortune that has struck me, for every injustice, even though I know it wasn't so, I will accept that I am guilty of making the person who lived with me happy. It's the worst thing that can happen to an individual and the people. It is good if it will affect some to begin now to clearly condemn the terror committed against this people in 1999. We'll see if they've learned anything and remembered something based on whether words will choose when they talk about where the Serbs are and why there are them. But once again, if they allow themselves to be the exponents of this slave morale, they will themselves step on whatever good they learn and remember and accept to be the worst. Whether or not he will, it's only on them. It has nothing to do with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34448	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34449	I'm sorry the general just made a few false statements. I don't think he had any evil intentions. I think he wasn't well informed. It's true that I met with Secretary of State Powell in 2003, probably July, probably the date is correct. It is true that there have been stories of many things, including the involvement of our gendarmes and the military in UN-sponsored peacekeeping operations. You have documents on this, every conversation is documented in both the State Department and by both the ambassadors and other people from our embassy who were at those talks at the time. There's no doubt about it. Before that, before I went to Washington, I spoke to the then commander of the gendarmes and then the Chief of Staff about the possibility of our engagement and they expressed their willingness to participate, because of course, we participated in the peace operations in the 1970s. Of course, it's just a political idea, and of course that's what the military and the gendarmes and the federal state should have been formally declared, since the military was then at the level of a federal state then called the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. Therefore, any Serbian prime minister in 2003 could not promise anyone anything in the area. The reason you should know, there were not conversations about Afghanistan and Iraq, but about Haiti, and I think that he was called Jacques Klein, before that he was in Bosnia's commander of some international forces, and his suggestion was that in Haiti, where some war ended, our forces were engaged as today, in health care, in the separation of those warring men. So, none of what you said is true, General, and you can verify that, and I'm sure, and in the archives of the Serbian Army General Staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34450	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34451	I wasn't in America, of course, and I wasn't following Mr. Zivkovic. I don't know what he was talking to Colin Powell about, but I know what General Staff was doing after he got back. No mention of Haiti. First of all, Afghanistan was mentioned. The general who was in charge of talking about it began about this way – the Americans will know that they appreciate our engagement in Afghanistan and that will probably help us with Kosovo and Metohija. I personally asked the general if the Americans had promised anything to do with Kosovo and Metohija, because I would go to Afghanistan first and as an ordinary soldier, if that means anything to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issues. No, he says, that's my assessment. Your judgments are completely irrelevant to that. And there were others at the college who said they were talking about what we're going to Afghanistan with. So it was absolutely said that our army has experience from the anti-terrorist struggle and goes into action – search and destroy. That's what the General Staff was talking about. Chief of Staff, Mr. Krga, is a living man. He ran that college. I was a representative of the Chief of Operations and, if it is written anywhere, it is written and what I have already said – if you have to go, then tell the government gentlemen that we have nothing to go with, that they have to provide a hundred million dollars for the purchase of equipment and that they have to be provided for a year to train soldiers and give them a chance to come back alive from Afghanistan. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34452	You don't have the right colleague on the line right now. A colleague Delic spoke about his discussions at the General Staff and whom you did not attend. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Serbian officers, Mr. Minister, fortunately in this House there are stenograms and you can clearly see who said what, and the Serbian language is such that we all understand it. It is embarrassing to say in the Serbian Parliament that the government or the Serb people is responsible for what has done to the Serbian people the pact. There is nothing less terrible to say, and it is the bestial bombing of the Serbian country to call the bahanals, when it is the greatest crime committed against one nation by one organisation. Just in that context, because we're talking like I think, I can't quite agree with Mr. Vulin why he stays in his gloves when he's talking about some things. It is true that during the previous government the most and most powerful destruction of our Republic's military potential was carried out, but it was not destroyed by the will of the then government, no matter how strong it was. It was destroyed by the continued NATO pact aggression and by their orders to reduce weapons. Why, if so, and why, if we all know so, are we working with that NATO pact today? Why, if we say that the best officers and all those who have endured the burden of aggression on KIM, then, by quick and accelerated procedure, had to be removed from the Army of the Republic of Serbia and retired in one way or another? Yeah, that was done because that's what the NATO Pact wanted. That's why I'm telling you, and that's why I told you the other day, there are no gentlemen of this neutrality. They're doing what they're going to do. Then the bombs, after which, by choosing the kind of government that was largely puppet, tried to carry out every NATO pact order. That is why it supports the Serbian Dvora Movement, the weapons that are coming and that we are working and will develop and fly planes from both Russia and Belarus, but that is why we say we are sick of this military-technical co-operation and various agreements with the NATO Pact. Let's avoid this type of neutrality, turn to those who are our friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34454	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34455	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order not to be a liar, a report from the VPD sector, the military will know what it is. So, the OB sector report for the VPD was 187955-1 since 29 April 2003. A million 250,000 marks, a hundred thousand dollars to my fellow farmer from the South Guarantee Bank, was raised on April 28th. You gentlemen of the army certainly know what the OB sector report for the VPD meant. We were 18795-1 since 29.4.2003. I expect him to say he didn't take pictures with the Special Ops Unit and throw a party in The Tower just before the prime minister was killed. I expect him to say he didn't take the place of the late prime minister. I also expect him to say he hasn't privatised DIN and DIV. I also expect him to say he didn't have chickens in the village of Pukovac. I expect him to say he didn't get a 55,000-euro vineyard bonus. I also expect him to say he didn't move from Nis to a sportsman's apartment that paid 500,000 euros. I expect everything and everything and, my God, he's not afraid of God, people aren't ashamed. I'm ashamed he's not ashamed of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34456	The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rakonjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34457	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on military education. In Article 1 following Article 1, new sections 2 and 3 are added, which reads as follows: "A certain occupations and titles acquired in military institutions are equivalent to the professions and titles acquired in the regular education system in the Republic of Serbia". The explanation of this amendment is that this amendment proposes to provide opportunities for the equalisation of certain occupations and titles acquired in the military education system with occupations and titles acquired at civil universities in order to enable the work of military experts in the civil sector in case of need. It is particularly important that high military education is implemented through the integration of educational and scientific and research activities in order to continuously improve the quality of teaching and to perfect scientific and professional work of importance for Serbia's defence and military. This is shown in the jurisdiction of the University of Defence, which integrates the educational and scientific and research activities of military high school institutions, i.e. units in their composition and their uniform and coordinated functioning. As an example of the unity of educational scientific and research work, the University of Medicine is the VMA where study programmes are carried out in the context of a unique process of work in which teachers and co-workers are at the same time engaged in educational, scientific and health work. This model has also been applied somewhat in teaching and scientific research, practice in medicine and in civil institutions. On the basis of all this, since the Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development has prepared for the previous period, and the Assembly has adopted a series of reform laws in the field of primary and secondary education, I expect that the current Minister and Ministry of Science and Education will prepare a set of reform laws in the area of higher education and scientific and research work. I expect that for reasons, which I think he has the strength and energy to deal with a decade-old, not to say, an age-long obstruction of the unification of teaching scientific and professional work in the civil sector. Why wouldn't top experts in institutions be college lecturers and have the science base be, for example, a public enterprise or an institution? This way their vast knowledge and potentials are trapped and are not available to students in either primary or postgraduate studies. I can't even be mentors. They can be, depending only on the will of a higher education institution, and they have vast scientific knowledge that can be translated into work with students of basic studies, master thesis and doctoral dissertations. In voting day, I'm going to vote for this bill anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34458	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Belačić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted a large number of amendments to this bill. Our amendments wanted to achieve both the terminology and the fundamental changes in this law, and we are sorry that they were not adopted, or adopted. However, we feel that the adoption of this law is necessary and that the law in which it will be adopted is not so bad. However, when it comes to the Serbian Army, there are far more serious problems than the problem of military education. This is, above all, the problem of the material status of members of the Serbian Army, then the problem of temporary retirement of certain personnel, which was done during the previous regime, and what this regime has not yet solved, the problem of the sale of military property and military facilities. So these are all topics that are more important than military education. As far as military education is concerned, the question arises – how justified is it that our state invests in the education of officers, so that they can then act on the territory of African states, on the territory of the Middle East and Cyprus, without being able to enter the territory of the southern Serbian province at the same time? Serbia is a country that is at risk of territorial integrity. Our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, which we all agree on, is also occupied by the Republika Srpska Krajina, which the ruling regime unfortunately accepted and gave up fighting for that Serbian territory, and we never will. Given that the occupation is being conducted by EU member states and states that are members of the NATO Pact, our soldiers are not the place in the peace missions led by these countries. The SRS stance would be justified to suspend participation in US and European Union-sponsored peacekeeping missions, to give up European integrations that inevitably carry NATO accessions to the pact and to turn Serbia to co-operation with that military force that recognises its territorial integrity, which is the Russian Federation. So, not the EU, not NATO Pact and the ODKB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34460	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No, colleague Sarovic is not here. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34461	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the People's Defence, I have submitted several amendments to the proposal for a law on military education. In Article 1(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill's word: "this" is deleted, because the proposed solution is excessive. It is interesting that the Military Academy, as the primary and most important higher education institution, is part of the University of Defence. In Article 15, only one sentence was processed, while VMA Medical School was processed through three positions. Our proposal is to define the Military Academy as the primary pillar of military education in such a way that it is seen from the very definition of military academy. Therefore, we have given an amendment which reads: “The Military Academy is a basic higher education unit of special importance for the defence system that implements study programmes in accordance with the work permit, training programmes and military-professional training programmes, in accordance with the founding act and this law. “ This amendment defines more precisely the service of the Military Academy in the military education system and within the University, so I suggest you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34462	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savik, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34463	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected representatives of the Serbian Army, do not even need to stress the importance of the army for every country, including ours. Therefore, it is no wonder that all the great statesmen of the world, beginning with Peter the Great, pointed out that their army was also their greatest ally. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia is not in a position to have such a large and powerful army that can mate with the world's most powerful armies, but therefore, the leadership of the Serbian state must always have correct estimates of where the country is most at risk. For something like this, no wisdom is needed, experience is ahead of us, memories are fresh, our greatest enemy is the NATO Pact, and I think every grandmother in every village knows that. For this reason, we must look for allies on the other side, and now at this time when a new redistribution of world power, especially military power, is clearly needed to look for allies of the parties to the east, or to join the ODKB, headed by the Russian Federation. And much more powerful states than the state of Serbia make certain types, perhaps not direct alliances, but certainly alliances with that organisation. This is where we heard from Mr. Vulin, Minister of the Military, we know of course he doesn't have some direct military experience and it's not controversial, the minister is primarily a political function, but we heard today from him that he's graduated from high-security schools, the most secure schools that are in this country and it's commendable. Therefore, Mr. Vulin, I would ask you to always suggest to both the prime minister and the president of this country, which is also the commander-in-chief of the army that Serbia, or the Serbian Army, and that our security is in the east and not in the west. So, not with the NATO Pact, but with Russia and the countries that make up the ODKB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34464	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. Here's my colleague Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34465	I have submitted in Article 1 paragraph 2, i.e. “expunged. ” An amendment that I have submitted to Article 1. The draft law on military education is of a technical nature and should contribute to a clearer provision. I would take this opportunity to draw attention to the reputation of our army as a member at a time when military service was a duty to the country, as well as later employed by the Federal Secretariat for People's Defence. The military is not only strengthened to participate in combat operations, but to be a defence force that guarantees the security and territorial integrity of our country. It used to be JNA, and today it's the Army of Serbia that we need to strengthen and respect and ensure a good position so that we never again have soldiers, officers who defended the country today, still have a roof over their heads. I am sorry that some are using this Assembly to propagate their warlike ideas and further divisions in Serbia, instead of turning to the future. Others draw attention to other things by their discussions and contribute nothing to the discussion of the Serbian Army, as if they wanted the law not to be passed and that some foreign army would come to defend us. I'm proud to be a communist by definition even though I have many friends on one side and on the other, and we've always talked about the future, not the past. But the citizens gave their opinion of those who talk like this, in the last election, I hope they'll give it up in the next election. We communists and socialists will always support the military and this law and always fight for peace, not war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34466	Thank you. National MP Danila Stojadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34467	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SPS, Article 1(2), and as my colleague spoke today, we have made an effort to make these technical amendments, because we have no objection to the Law on Military Education itself, where the term is replaced by the word "expression". Since we had an active debate today, we've touched a lot of things from the past, a very broad topic, maybe it was fun for our fellow citizens, I would point out the essence of this law and what makes the adoption of this law important. So, the essence of this law is important because of the harmonisation of military education rules with the education system in the Republic of Serbia, because it is late, i.e. it started in 2010 and it was somehow time to bring it to an end. The process itself must be completed, co-ordinated by the organisation and work of military research institutions with a system of scientific and research institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is also important to bring legal certainty, which will address legal issues related to status, organisation and work of military institutions. I would also point out how important a good organisation with top education is, not only in the country's defence conditions, which was most of the discussion in today's debate, but also in everyday life, including basic disasters and emergency situations. I would remind myself of the catastrophic floods of May 2014, in which I took part. Here, it's been four years since. Without the military activity and without the trust that exists in the people to the military institution, and then we'd be much harder to get out of the situation we were in. In essence, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group supports the law and will vote for it in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34468	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Pekarski's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34469	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected officers of the Serbian Army, respected representatives of the BIA, have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and have suggested that Article 3 be added with the desire to further define it and promote it through the discussion and bring it closer to the public. I wanted, first of all, to commend the minister's appearance at the previous session, when he explained very plastically and in detail and gave answers to all the questions raised and all the provocations that happened at the time. The relationship between all ministers and the state itself towards the Serbian Army by 2012, as well as the radical changes in the presence of Alexander Vukic as defence minister, and not only Alexander Vukic when he came to the post of defence minister, but also all ministers to this day, but also with you. This set of laws we are discussing, and here in addition to the proposal for a law on military education, I am also referring to the proposal for a law on defence and a bill on the Serbian Army and the Law on Transport of Weapons and Equipment and the use of the Serbian Army in multinational forces outside the territory and outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the BIA Act and this series of other draft laws we have, I think it is one set of patriotic laws. I am very glad that the citizens of Serbia can today, in direct television broadcast, see who and what attitude is taking here in this assembly, the attitude of patriotism. I think military education, of course, is also studying history. Military education includes medical studies. I believe patriotism is historically and genetically embedded in us. Patriotism is something we're born with, it's kind of like a conditional reflex. Definitely through history, through our evolution, not to go so far as to go as far as 1389, to go a little early in some new history of 1804 years, from the First Serbian Uprising, or from 1805, from the Second Serbian Uprising, or from 1912 and 1913, the First and Second Balkan War, and in 1914 with battles on Kolubara and Cera, so Albanian gogotes in 1915 and a breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front in 1918 and all the other wars and conflicts in which we participated and died, I believe that our grandfathers have implanted this patriotic gene into complete our genetic material by their courage and selection. Listening to some MPs here today, who are no longer here, as they have expressed their views and as they have expressed themselves, I think that this conditional reflex with which we were born, this patriotic gene that we have inside us, I think it's a little bit of a cross, that it's mutated, that this conditional reflex has grown into something completely different, that it's gone into this acquired reflex, a reflex of narrow interest, a reflex that denies love for its army, a reflex that negates love for its country, a reflex that aims to degrade everything that's well done and a reflex that's obviously meant only to bring some people into power regardless of the resources and rhetoric that they apply here in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34470	Thank you. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34471	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, officers, respected BIA gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment and my amendment refers to Article 1 which I am adding Article 3 which should explain how military education can ensure better development of the Republic of Serbia, with a view to reducing social differences. In fact, education is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, not only priorities but also the focus of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party has invested a large amount of money in education by coming to power, and why? Because you, educated people, have written these laws, because you educate young cadets and future officers, and it is very important for the Serbian Army to make, create young people who will make decisions, who know that they think, because these decisions can depend on the future of the Republic of Serbia at one point. We know, and we need to point out once again, that we are a military neutral country, that the political option towards the EU, but precisely with a set of laws we discussed in the principle debate, we will now constitutionally confirm what we are talking about today. It's very important to be educated, because young people have a chance. When you're educated you can choose, when you're uneducated you can't do that. Not only should it be educated, but it should be honored, it is an honor to do what the Army of the Republic of Serbia does, and we should teach young people how to develop, how to contribute to the progress of the Republic of Serbia, rather than to benefit as our former minister, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, who has eaten the army, who has devastated the army and who has melted everything that can be overrun, and what he has not melted, he has sold. Any, it didn't happen again. In contrast, the SNS, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has managed, thanks to reforms, to have a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget and part of the surplus has been transferred by the military of the Republic of Serbia and that is a figure of 100m euros. With good fiscal policy and not only that, military control for what happened during Mr. Sutanovac and his environment and good business policy, you can hire with your eight companies today, we can, like you, hire a lot more people. In 2012, it was employed by companies, as far as defence industries are concerned, eight thousand people, and today it is number 11.230. That's how responsible government works, hires people. They fire, we hire and thus contribute to Serbia's development and thus reduce social differences. Also, exports in 2016 amounted to $484 million, much more compared to 2012, to 2014, and in 2016 we have 20% more than in 2015. It gets better every year. Most importantly, in 2017, the Republic of Serbia invested in the defence industry 50m dollars and expects that in 2018 it will be a percentage of the profit of 135%, 9% will be less expenditure, which means we are doing it right. Please educate your future officers, cadets, because they depend on Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34472	Thank you. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague of David's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34473	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I have submitted this amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on military education, with the aim of more precise defining this member. The proposed draft law on military education is part of Serbia's education system and is of particular importance to defence. The adoption of this bill implements the harmonisation of rules on military education with regulations on the education of the Republic of Serbia and thus military-school institutions become an integral part of the educational system. This bill creates the possibility that professional members of the Republika Srpska Army can be educated and trained abroad, in line with plans for the education and training of professional members of the Serbian Army and defence and the needs and opportunities of the defence ministry. By adopting the proposed draft law on military education, we will make a significant contribution to the development of the Republic of Serbia, which will allow for the improvement of co-operation between the countries of the region, as data from its own environment is often insufficient and therefore international knowledge and experience is very important. International military co-operation is an important segment of the defence system aimed at co-operation with the world's armed forces, as well as activities in the fields of military and military-medical co-operation, as well as cooperation in training, education and training of members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment to Article 1 of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34474	Thank you. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Markovic's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34475	The law on military education provides, among other things, military-professional training for the needs of the Serbian Army, but for the development of scientific and scientific staff. In this context, I would like to mention previous co-operation with the North Atlantic Alliance, which also contributes to improving our army's capabilities through various forms of co-operation. I'll just list some. In the first place, I'd definitely single out the IPAP. It is an agreement that we have adopted here in parliament that represents the highest degree of co-operation of a non-NATO country. The IPAP does not imply membership in the Alliance, it envisions regular cycles of dialogue with NATO on four groups of issues -- political-security, military-defense, administrative and public diplomacy issues, scientific co-operation and emergency planning. I am talking about this type of co-operation because I think IPAP mechanisms should be used as much as possible, especially when it comes to the security of Serbs and non-Albanian population in KIM, when it comes to protecting our religious facilities and our cultural heritage. I believe that in the right way, we will take advantage of all the possibilities offered by the IPAP agreement. In addition to this agreement, I would also single out co-operation through an individual partnership and co-operation programme that allows for the acquisition of new knowledge and exchange of experiences at seminars, courses, conferences and exercises that are also financially supported by the North Atlantic Alliance. This year's programme, the ninth in a row, envisions 107 activities. It's important that we're open to co-operation with everyone, especially the acquisition of new knowledge. It's also a good thing we're thinking in the right way about our interests, what we're looking at in the future, that we're aware of the benefits we can get from improving the education system. In the end, since there's been a lot of words here for patriotism, in my opinion, patriotism is when you're telling the truth, not when you're misleading citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-03-0.u34476	Thank you. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours with a debate in particular, with an amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Mirko Krlic.
