ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-28-0.u41670	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to start work. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. I'm putting the draft law on war memorials to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and I find that – 128, against – no one, with abstention – three, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-28-0.u41671	I am putting amendments to the name of the law passed by the peoples by MP Milan Lapcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the name of the bill tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the name of the bill together submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the Head of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Djordje Milicevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Paunovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the four Members of Parliament of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Novaca Tonchev. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Daniela Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 1 which was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 1 which was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, doc. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 24, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law, Milovan Krinakapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlalgic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Josip Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2, with an amendment submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Joseph Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Chapter II tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of Chapter II tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for the amendment to Chapter II, the name of Chapter II and Article 3 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of Chapter II, which were tabled by four Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by the Members of the People's Parliament. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—13, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by the Members of the People's Parliament. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 to vote, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic.. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the four MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the eight MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled together by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which, with correction, was passed by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Joseph Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to vote, with a correction, on article 4, which was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of Chapter 3, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 7, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 10, which was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 which were tabled by the eight MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 14 tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the 16th member of the Parliament, who submitted five MPs to the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 16th vote, which was tabled by eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 17. who submitted five MPs to the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Chapter 4, which was tabled by eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Head and Article 18, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Chapter 4 and Article 18, which were tabled by four MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 19, which were tabled by four Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by four MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21, which was tabled by eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by four MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 23, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which were tabled by four MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 25, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Jasmina Karanac, Branimir Jovanovic and Predrag Jelenkovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on war memorials in general. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on war memorials. I put to the vote the draft law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to the name of the bill tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the Bill of Law, together submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on amendments to Article 1 which were tabled in the same text by Parliamentarian Verica Radet, five MPs from the SDS, People's Party and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 together by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on amendments to Article 2 which were submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Verica Radet, five MPs from the SDS, People's Party and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were tabled by Parliamentarian Verica Radet, five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 4 which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Verica Radet, five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 5, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by the 12 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 5, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Miljan Damjanovic, I am concluding the vote: for – no one, against – no one, with abstentions – is there. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 6, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 6 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Milorad Mircic and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6, with the correction, which was submitted by the 12 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 7, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs of the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs of the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs of the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9 together by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 10 to the same text, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 11, in the same text, which were tabled jointly by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic, five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12 in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs of the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote on Article 14, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same text in article 15, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the same text in article 16, which have been tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same text in article 17, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same text in article 18, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 20, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21 in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs of the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 22 in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs of the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 23 in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs of the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24, in the same text, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same text in article 25, which was tabled by five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities in general. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – one, abstention – one, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Employment Act in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Party Employment Act in general. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Foreign Employment Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting amendments to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, were tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet, five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 2 which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 4 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Sreto Peric, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 6 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 7 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 9 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Jovanovic, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 11 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – no one, with abstentions, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Bozidar Delic and MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which were tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the 12 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which have been tabled by the six MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 6 tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 7 which have been tabled by the six MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 7 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the six MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9 tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 13th. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstention, voted for – 128, against – six MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 130, against – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Laws on the Fundamental Rights of the Borians, Military Invalids and the families of the Fall Fighters Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 130, against – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 together by MPs Petar Jojic, Bozidar Delic and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 to be voted by the MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Sreto Peric and Aleksandar Seselj together. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 1 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Momcilo Mandic, Bozidar Delic and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Nikola Savic and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled jointly by Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled jointly by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 3 which were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Zoran Despotović and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 together with the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 together by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 that have been tabled jointly by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 4, which together have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 4 which together have submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 129, no one, eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on the Rights of the Borians, Military Invalids and Members of their Families since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 130, no one, seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 together by MPs Petar Jojic, Momcilo Mandic and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group I hereby conclude the vote and declare: no one, no one, no one, no one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 4 which were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Bozidar Delic and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Momcilo Mandic, Sreto Peric and Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 5, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 6 which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, with a correction. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Bozidar Delic and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstention, voted for – 128, against – eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Agreements After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, not nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. I am putting amendments to the draft law tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 14 submitted by MP Sreto Peric and MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 14 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 18, which has been tabled by the 12 parliamentary groups of the Democratic Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 19, which were tabled in the same text by MP Nemanja Sarovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 25, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 27th vote, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 32 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 34 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 129, against – there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted – eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Before we move to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts (points 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda), and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission (point 13 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of point 6) and Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly shall decide on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts and shall exercise electoral competence with the majority of votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on Social Security, in general. I conclude the vote: for— 136, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 129, against – there is no one who has abstention – who has not voted – four MPs of the people. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece on social security, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 129, against – there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Australia on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 129, against – there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the Serbian People's Party's MP group, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 22 June 2018, at 12 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to injuries. 107th and 108th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 22 June 2018, at 12 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 22 June 2018, at 15 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 25 June 2018, at 12 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on June 26, 2018, at 11 o'clock and 39 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 26 June 2018, at 18 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 June 2018, at 18 hours and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 27 June 2018, at 12 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
