ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session in the 11th session. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. Ambassador Petronijevic, to check his card. There, you see there's one more now. Please stop playing with your cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 136 MPs present in the hall and that we have conditions to start work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40380	Thank you. I refer the first question to the director of RTS and the Minister of Culture and Information, the way so-called. Public service is following the football world championship. The question is, do they intend to do something about the use of war terminology and the constant uplifting of nationalist passions, especially in front of our national team's match with the Swiss national team, played by several players of Albanian origin? That's how it is, for example. in last night's Russian fairy tale show, the broadcast of journalist Dusko Albianic, in which he compared the match between the two teams to the battle for Kaliningrad, starting in 1945. I'll remind you, this battle was one of the last Red Army operations on the East-Prussian front against Nazi Germany. At the same time, journalist Albianic, in addition to the Russian army submarine, symbolically called on the telephone of several football players of our team, inviting them to prepare for this battle, and at the end of his head he proudly put on a hat worn by crew members of these submarines. I note, in addition to that, it's a classic and false piece of information carried by crew members of these submarines. The MPs speak out loud. I would just let the younger Seselj know that I have a black belt, day three, in the aikid, so it's not too heroic. My next question is about the World Cup, risking being classy among the haters of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40381	Please, just be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40382	... and the dirtiest solubility of the Serbian social scene, as identified by one of the regime's striking media poets. This issue concerns the participation of the son of the president of the state as a fan of our team. Only the presence of Danil Vukic at the games is certainly not problematic, but in the photos of the Costa Rican game, he is in the company of people some media claim to be members of the criminal structures, against which the proceedings for various crimes have been conducted. This is certainly a reason to worry about his safety, and therefore all of these media allegations should be clarified. In addition, photographs show that some of these so-called. The fans have official IDs, so the question arises, on what basis did they get these IDs, as well as whether they were traveling there with a special charter flight, as well as who covered the costs of that trip? The question also arises whether the president's son is provided with security in Russia, on what basis and how much does that security cost? I refer these questions, first of all, to the Minister of the Interior, who should worry about the security of all citizens, including the son of the president of Serbia, as well as the Minister of Sport and the President of the Football Union. True answers would probably show why the state doesn't have the strength to deal with hooligans. The third question is referred to by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Prime Minister in connection with a recent meeting of the Geneva International Labour Conference – what do they intend to do about the negative conclusions concerning Serbia? According to the International Labour Organisation's excellent knowledge, for the first time in its history, one country has also found itself on the agenda of two committees, the Accreditation Committee and the Standard Application Committee due to failure. The Accreditation Committee failed to meet last year's recommendation to provide members of our delegation with journals that are in line with the cost of life and conditions necessary for decent accommodation and meals in Geneva. By failing to meet this recommendation, the Serbian government has failed to fulfil its obligation under Article 13 paragraph 2 (a) of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation. That is why in the latest report, the Committee tightened its language and practically asked the government to fulfil its obligations. In this way, the Serbian government not only fails to fulfil its international obligations, but is further disrupting the country's reputation, with members of our 15-euro demagogue-low delegation being regularly exposed to ridicule by members of another country's delegation. At the same time, the Standard Application Committee voiced deep concern that the Serbian government had for three years failed to fulfil the basic obligation to submit a report on the application of ratified conventions. That is why Serbia has found itself in a society of countries such as Somalia, Congo, Belize, the Cook Islands and Equatorial Guinea. It further defeats the explanation given by the government's representative for such behaviour, which is that we have often had elections. In a indirect manner, it was acknowledged that civil servants actively participated in election campaigns. In addition, complaints were also discussed that the government excluded social partners from the process of making social legislation and labour legislation, which is also the case with the draft laws on the agenda of this session. This case very vividly describes the nature and way of functioning of the government, both internationally and internally. On the one hand, failure to fulfil international obligations and not understanding how this affects the collapse of the country's reputation, and on the other, the politicalisation, i.e. the partisation of the state administration, as well as the lack of interest in true social dialogue and the needs of citizens. Since there is little time left, I also point to the question of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy – why has the Serbian and Serbian governments so far not responded positively to the recent offer of Angola, worth nearly one billion euros, to build infrastructure in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40383	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40384	Thank you. My question goes to the address of Prime Minister Mrs. Ana Brnabic, in connection with her last, I would say, more than controversial statements the last two days, which absolutely require answers and clarification. Just before that, I would ask a further question to my past question to the Ministry of Agriculture, regarding a conversation that the Minister of Agriculture, or Mr Nedimovic, had with representatives of the Association of Farmers, to ask whether it was true, of course, about the price of fuel, is it true that it was said at this time that the representatives of farmers could not be brought down, or that they were given more favourable fuel prices for farmers earlier in the fall because, but now the question is why? Because of the need for the previous IMF to approve this reduction, i.e. the reduction of excise duties and the reduction of fuel for agricultural producers, and I would say for all consumers in the country. So is it possible for the IMF to decide even on such matters as regards the excise policy of the Serbian government? But the main question, as I said, goes to Mrs. Brnabic's address, which in two days gave two, more than I would say, problematic statements and, worst of all, confirmed the latter first, although she probably intended to explain or justify herself. Mrs. Brnabic is for Germany's Velt, it is not important for anyone to say it, not even when, she said that Serbia's continued insistence that Kosovo belongs to Serbia would make it impossible to compromise. It is, of course, about the Brussels agreements, that is, the agreements and negotiations that are now being continued on Sunday by the old president of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and the president of the so-called President. Kosovo, Hashim Thaci. As preparations for you, and the introduction to these negotiations, Mrs Brnabic pleads for a compromise and says -- Kosovo was Serbia. Now we need to find a compromise, Serbia will never recognise an independent Kosovo, but if we continue to insist that Kosovo belongs to Serbia, the compromise would not be possible. So it's called giving up your basic negotiating position and accepting or falling for politics -- give what you give, if you want something to give. So, as I was saying here, even at the market, you don't trade like that anymore, let alone have serious international conversations. And worst of all, there's always the possibility that someone was misread, that you didn't understand him, especially what it was, as I said, for the German media, but unfortunately, as much as tomorrow, i.e. Yesterday, Mrs. Brnabic reiterated her findings and her thesis, minimally altered, she says – we must be open to compromise, but this means that it cannot go into any extremes. I agree with that, the compromise is necessary, the talks are necessary, but what is the extreme in which we should not, according to our prime minister. She says -- we must leave our comfortable opinions on Kosovo being Serbia and that Serbia will recognise Kosovo's independence. So, what it says in the Constitution of Serbia and what, among other things, is the government of Serbia programme, what the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and all the ministers who took the oath here, thinks and calls it, twice in a row, some kind of extreme and extreme that we have to leave. To the side that it's anti-constitutional than, as I said, it's terribly bad as a platform for negotiations to go to. On the other hand, an even more devastating impression is that when we look at what the Albanian side is doing at that time and Hashim Thaci and Enver Hoxha, they are raising the scale for us. They say the formation of a community of Serb municipalities should go in a package with Kosovo's accession to the United Nations. Hashim Thaci is talking about the relations between the two states and the two nations that will regulate so that they can then go to the European Union and NATO. So what I'm saying is, on the other hand, he raises the scale, maximises his demands. We go ahead with the position – give me what you give. That is another reason, and I end up with this, which is why I think it is very important and necessary for this Assembly to address Kosovo and Metohija as soon as possible. This is already the eighth special session during the month of June, what is the problem of organising another one on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija next week, to look ourselves in the eye and say clearly what we think? I don't think we're all like-minded, on this side or on the other side, but I think the vast majority or absolute majority would have to be against these views, which unfortunately the Serbian Prime Minister has said several times and repeats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40385	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First question I ask the president of Mrs. Maji Gojkovic's Assembly. When the Council of the Republic of Serbia will declare on the immunity of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, to which the Supreme Court in Belgrade has been called in the case of Vuk Jeremic's suit against Alexander Vukic. So, I will remind the citizens that Vuk Jeremic filed a lawsuit against Alexander Vukic for damage to the reputation and honor he gave him with statements, when he declared him the leader of the international criminal bank of thieves and that the court was practically on behalf of Alexander Vukic, as if his lawyer had called for immunity, although Mr. Jeremic sued Mr. Vukic as a citizen, not as president of the Republic. In this Rules of Procedure, Rule 119 clearly states that the President of the Republic enjoys the same immunity as the MPs in this House enjoy. This is an unprecedented legal precedent, where the court decided to practically represent the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. On the other hand, if he's sure of what he was saying, if he's behind those words, and we're witnessing how he said he wasn't afraid of the court, that he's not afraid of Jeremiah, if what he was saying is true, why doesn't he go to court nice now, so let him explain it in court and prove that everything he's saying is true, and not to lie and spit on people without any justification? So, it's said that a man of crisis behind a court, behind the institutions of this state, is being trampled by the institutions of the system, and is not allowed to go to a television duel, must not appear to go to court either, but it is easy for him to condemn and accuse people without evidence. The second question, which I also ask the president of the Assembly, I will read a quote that will also be my question. So we ask for an urgent appointment of a session of the Serbian Parliament to discuss all the measures Serbia needs to take to help both the state and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Furthermore, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not just political elites, must meet with the measures the state authorities will take. I've quoted Alexander Wolfiche and that quote is my question. I couldn't agree more with him. So will you call on a special assembly to discuss the future of citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija and Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution? I am particularly asking this as a question because the political elite, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, or Mrs. Brnabic, who has become prime minister through some strange circumstances, has given it to her to say that Kosovo is no longer Serbia. I will quote, she said -- Kosovo used to be Serbia and that the compromise does not mean that Kosovo belongs to Serbia. I will remind you of fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the President of the Republic and the Minister of what stands in the oaths here before us by the MPs, the Miroslav Gospel and the citizens of Serbia, said, the last part of the oath is that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with confidence, responsibility and commitment and be committed to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. So, the People's Party is requesting a special session with this topic, asking the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly to demand the responsibility of prime minister and government members to resign because they do not have the right to hold property and national interests of the Republic of Serbia and the future of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in whatever part of Serbia they live in, whether in Kosovo and Metohija or in any other part of the Republic of Serbia. It's not their family heirloom that they can make their own decisions about how to sell, inn and negotiate. It is likely part of a major campaign that the SNS regime has been conducting for months and years with the aim of teaching Kosovo and giving the chair of the United Nations to Kosovo. These days you have increased party activities, so you visit all cities across Serbia and you convince them and tell your members that they should go into the people, citizens and tell them why it is good for Serbia to sign a legally binding agreement and to join the United Nations of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40387	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40388	Thank you. I refer the first question to Prime Minister Brnabic, who assessed for the German newspaper "Velt" that Kosovo was Serbia and that if we continue to insist that Kosovo belongs to Serbia, the compromise would not be possible. Under the Constitution and the laws of the Serbian country, the statement is equal to high treason, especially if it is given by the Prime Minister. The situation of Kosovo and Metohija has been determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whose implementation by the Prime Minister is under oath. Also, the National Assembly of Serbia is the only place where it can be discussed and discussed. Question for Prime Minister Brnabic – have you forgotten that in this assembly you have sworn an oath to honor and defend the Serbian Constitution? Why do you make statements that do not respect the Constitution of your own country? Do you know of any Prime Minister of any country in the world that deals in this way with the constitution of your own country? Do you understand that you have committed the criminal act of endangering the independence of the Republic of Serbia under Article 305. A criminal law because you're bringing the Republic of Serbia into a position of subordination and addiction? To commit crimes against Serbia's constitutional arrangement and security under Article 320. Criminal law? I'm sure you didn't make the statement, from your head, but it's definitely part of the deal with the N.N. persons and/or domestic or foreign persons on the preparation and practical drive of Serbian citizens to forget about Kosovo and Metohija, which is a criminal act of association for the anti-constitutional activity of Article 319. Criminal law. Question for Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorko Dolovac. Mrs. Dolovac, are you alive? The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has committed crimes against the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia in light of all citizens' statements. We ask, on behalf of Serbian citizens, that you finally begin to do the job you are paid for and report to the public regarding Prime Minister Brnabic's statement that Kosovo was part of Serbia. Why don't you do your official duty and respond to a statement like this? Should I remind you that you didn't react even when the Savamala was destroyed, when a military helicopter fell, when a journalist Cvetkovic disappeared, and you're not responding now. What's to happen so you can do your job? The second question is for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorganko Tabakovic - you have begun the second term of governor with serious professional affairs such as scandalous silence of the National Bank on loans indexed in Swiss francs, or transfer credits from one bank to another, without client consent. In order to cover the citizens' eyes, you announced a few days ago that you had punished 11 banks for the first five months of this year. By what rules did you punish them? What punishments did you impose? Did the clients have the right to participate in the proceedings? Were the failures systematic or individual and did the banks correct the gaps? Please give the MP's group enough to deliver all the solutions to the punishment of banks. The next question is referred to Minister of State Administration and local self-government Branko Ruzic. On the night between June 14th and 15th, the flood struck villages in the municipality of Aleksinac – Koprivnica, Vrečenovica, Česta, Bankovac and Porodin, which caused a large number of households to suffer serious damage. The residents called the Institute of Public Health, which confirmed that due to stale water and dead cattle, there would only be infection and health threats, but that they only respond to the call of local self-government. The local self-government didn't respond, and the citizens couldn't even call the communal inspectors. There is a reasonable doubt that this was done on purpose, for the reason that for 2017 in the budget of the municipality of Aleksinac was defined funds to defend against floods, however, nothing was done, and the money, of course, is gone, so in this situation the Law on Local Self-Government was in force, since no state of emergency was declared, and local self-government ignored the problem, trying to hide its failures. We urge the Minister of State Administration and local self-government to use its powers and alexina local self-government to act in accordance with the law and protect its citizens from a health disaster. Secondly, to declare a state of emergency in all villages and municipalities in Serbia that have suffered damage, to bring into force the Emergency Law, where the authorities from local self-government are moving to the Ministry of the Interior and to help all municipalities in the form of equipment and peoples, in order to quickly recover and eliminate the risks to the lives and health of residents of these municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40389	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40390	Thank you, Chairman. Most colleagues have already asked the questions we wanted to ask, so I wouldn't repeat them to this occasion. I would like to ask Minister Djordjevic and the Ministry of Labour about the Labour Act, which is the provision of 53rd, which regulates overtime. The provision, i.e. Article 53, states that at the request of the employer, the employer is required to work longer than full-time in case of force majeure. This higher power, unfortunately, implies that, for example, doctors, policemen, and even employees in this congregation, are very often exposed to this problem in which they have to work more than prescribed by law. Among other things, the law stipulates that overtime cannot last longer than eight hours a week and that employees cannot work longer than 12 hours a day, including overtime. Consider that a police officer who, for example, works as an inspector at a police station is not easily replaceable and with that he can and how to exceed his overtime on just one weekend, so that each of his orders is not actually paid. As the law, or sublegal acts, regulates this so that employees get their days off. Consider again that these individuals are irreplaceable, and in that sense they cannot make good use of their free days on which they would be entitled. I ask Minister Djordjevic to take this problem seriously and to realize that there is a large group of people who are condemned to work overtime and that he does not get money for this overtime and that he cannot possibly replace it, that he is considering amending the Labour Act or some sublegal act that would regulate this issue, because our citizens want to work for money, not for the days that they cannot use. A second question, or second request, would be referred to the president of the National Assembly. I'd ask her to hold a college as soon as possible. The presidents of the parliamentary groups would have to meet, in order for this situation in the Assembly, which, behold, we live on Sundays, to be interrupted. The National Assembly is currently sitting in extraordinary circumstances, these are extraordinary meetings of the Assembly, and we have more frequent sessions than it is in regular session, i.e. in the spring or the autumn matrimony. The president of the Assembly is obliged to hold a college and I suggest that this happens as soon as possible, since it has been announced that we will have some more sessions in this period. There are an increasing number of amendments to be submitted that have absolutely no meaning whatsoever. Yesterday, we saw it when the law was passed, that none of the meaningless amendments that are massively passed. This problem has to be solved. I understand that it is the drive of the spite of one side of this assembly and that in a regular session, however, what is the goal of us as MPs? Our goal is to pass laws that will be in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No practice is good, no other practice is good. With each other, it has to stop. I urge the President of the Assembly to hold a college, that the presidents of the parliamentary groups together agree that in this, and in the autumn and spring next session, we will continue to work as the citizens have chosen us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40391	Thank you, colleague Macura. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40392	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of Serbia, my first parliamentary question on behalf of the Serbian Movement Group Dvora, is directed towards a competent public prosecutor's office asking when will the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, react and criminally prosecute against the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state? In the Criminal Code, the crimes committed by Ana Brnabic were called treason and high treason, but those crimes were expelled from the Criminal Code and we are left with only the prosecution that can act because of violations of the Constitution and violations of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state. We experienced that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, said that Kosovo was Serbian and Serbia, which means that it is no longer, said there is no compromise with Albanians without, if we claim that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, which means that it thinks that Kosovo and Metohija are not part of Serbia, that they violate their oath by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and that they should be prosecuted. I am taking this opportunity to invite her to do the only possible moral act, which is to resign as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, if she thinks that Kosovo and Metohija are not Serbia and that compromise with Albanians entails giving up Kosovo and Metohija. She would have been an excellent Prime Minister but independent Kosovo, since she agrees that Kosovo is independent and that it is no longer Serbia. This is a scandal and we must react urgently and not allow the highest state officials to violate the Constitution and give up Kosovo and Metohija. A question for Serbian President Alexander Vukic, who gave him the mandate to go to Brussels on Sunday to talk to a war criminal, terrorist and separatist, Hashim Thaci? Has this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ever given him a mandate? Did he ever present his negotiating platform here? Do we know what he secretly negotiates with world officials and what he secretly negotiates with the Shiptars from Kosovo and Metohija? Are the exact statements made by Hashim Thaci and his adviser, Malic, that he is preparing a final, legally binding agreement on the recognition of the false state of Kosovo? That since Sunday, this is the final and final talks on the topic and that Kosovo will become a member of the UN and NATO after these talks? Is Alexander Vukic, therefore, with that mandate and who gave him that mandate going to Brussels to continue saving his political career and fulfilling the commitments he made when his Western mentors brought him to power in 2012? Because, respected Serbian citizens, remember, Aleksandar Vucic would never have come to power if he hadn't been given up by the Western foreign embassies and supported his coming to power because he accepted even what Boris Tadic did not want to accept, which is to give up Kosovo and Metohija and recognise the false state of Kosovo, which these days we are experiencing finals and in the coming months for the work of the survival of Vukic in power, he will obviously be ready to sign anything that will be pushed into Brussels. And, to be more than just a criticism, here is a proposal for the foreign minister in the form of issues, of course the president of the state, the state of Serbia should call on a Russian military mission that would come to the premises of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija and take part in protecting the Serb population against the announced persecutions, especially in northern Kosovo and Metohija. The only solution to protect the security of Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija is the arrival of a Russian military mission, which would, among other things, be stationed on Kopalnik and would provide security for Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija. I am deeply convinced that the current president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has excellent relations with Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin, president of the Russian Federation, that the Russian Federation would automatically accept the arrival of a Russian military mission to Serbia, which would guarantee the security of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. And immediately, I shall make a final proposal, as soon as the KFOR and NATO pact from Kosovo and Metohija is withdrawn, so will the Russian military mission that is due to come. And finally, when will the government, I say, fulfill its promise to reduce the excise on fuel in Serbia? Here, seven days have passed since that promise, there are no more protests, and there is no reduction in excise duty, and when will Minister Stefanovic explain to us the amount of explosives that are enough to be planted for someone's murder without jeopardizing the lives of other citizens in the city center during that explosion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40393	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40394	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I ask the question of Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. We see that Belgrade is like Chicago in the '30s and '40s. We know that Belgrade is the second most insecure city in Europe after Kiev, and these are all catastrophic data, and these are all the consequences of the boast and bad decisions of the SNS to deal with security in Serbia in people like Vulin, Bratislava Gasic and others. I don't really know, and I don't see anything funny in the fact, and I don't know what SNS MPs are laughing at and I'm asking Minister Stefanovic what he's going to do about the catastrophic data that 81 people have lost their lives in the last five years in Serbia since he's been in the power of the SNS in mob deals. To make the situation even worse for the safety of all Serbian citizens, we have only six enlightened murders from 81 murders in the last five and a half years since it was in the power of the SNS and I am sure it is an alarming data and that nothing to Serbia's longer citizens is funny. What SNS and Minister Stefanovic will do about this data that is one of the worst data in Europe, with Belgrade being the second most insecure city in Europe. The only safer city than Belgrade is like I told Kiev. What matters most to you, which is that you shed light on the fact of two chairs. You found out who stole two chairs in 2000, and you're proud of that, and I congratulate you, because that seems to be your final reach, unfortunately, for this country. I ask the question, 81 mob murders have taken place in Serbia in the last five years, only six are police, i.e. Minister Stefanovic and the institutions of this country lit up. When will the other murders be lit up and what will the minister of police do about this disastrous fact? The second question I ask the prime minister of this country and Minister Nedimovic, I ask Minister Nedimovic whether he will increase subsidies to farmers because the situation in agriculture, as well as in the economy and in the security sector is alarming and catastrophic because Serbia is governed by boasts and unprofessional people. The subsidies, dear friends, are dear Minister Nedimovic, since I ask him this question in 2012, i.e. In 2011, the subsidies for agriculture were 14,000 dinars, now subsidies for agriculture are four thousand dinars, 72% are reduced subsidies for agriculture, that's what the SNS did. The price of raspberries in 2011 was 235 dinars. Coming to the power of the SNS today is the price of raspberries 80 dinars. The Serbian Progressive Party has reduced the price of raspberries by 66%, provided the raspberries are redeemed, as in many places they do not buy. The price of wheat was 28 dinars in 2011, and now the price of wheat is 17.70 dinars, which means 37% is the lower price of wheat. The corn was 24 dinars, and now it's 16.70, which means that 30% is the lower price of corn, while the oil price is 73% higher, more specifically from 95 dinars, the oil has jumped to 165 dinars. Agricultural products are cheaper than 30 to 70% and subsidies are lower by 72%. How do agricultural producers end up with these catastrophic prices? Once again, I have to ask all the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when they will visit the Smederjevska Palanka and help people in Golobok, people in Vlaska Dol, people in Greece who have suffered the disastrous consequences of a catastrophic storm seven days ago? In seven days, no one found fit to visit Smederevska Palanka's locals from the ministers and help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40395	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40396	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not threaten with a black belt, day three, because that belt is probably sweating. I've got black socks on my first day. So, first question, is it possible to make such a threat unpunished in Parliament of the National Assembly? Threaten someone with a black belt the third day. Let's take it in a row. Is it true that the president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality until a year ago, Mr. Milojic called "Heineken" drank five tons of raspberries for one evening? To answer that question because he drank four hundred seventy-seven thousand dinars for that evening, and the price of the raspberries that year, and here he lied was 90 dinars. It's about 2011. Furthermore, is it true that in 2011, the price of wheat was 13 and a half dinars and in 2012, which was the issue, after the change, of 26 dinars, I will admit that it was a dry year, so that later that price would settle somewhere at 17, 18 and 19 dinars without VAT and from VAT? Furthermore, is it true that the 2006 subsidies were about 126m euros in total, that the two largest subsidies in 2011 were 188m euros, and that this government is paying farm-level subsidies for all types of agricultural production of up to 280m euros, up to 309m euros, and is it true that it paid off the debt of the former authorities in 14.2 billion? It's about agriculture. As far as Jeremic is concerned, I ask the Government, is it true that the pain cited by Mr. Jeremic's Alexic was worth seven million five hundred thousand dollars and some dollars and is it true that he paid $650,000 of this sum to his wife, editor of Dnevnik TV, Natasa Jeremic, in the City Bank? So the question is clear and loud. Furthermore, is it true that at the time of Kosovo's declaration of independence, which was made in agreement between Jeremic, Tadic, the US Embassy, etc., the famous Librarian for 50,000 euros he received from Kolubara, from mines, kept silent and did nothing? This is about Bosko Obradovic, the famous spokesman of the Chacan library at the time of the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo and Metohija? Is it true he didn't do anything and he got 50,000 euros from Kolubara so he wouldn't object? Also, on the subject of fans, fan patriotism doesn't know about borders sometimes, but cheering and loving your country is not prohibited, so whether you have socks on day one or black belt day three. So, is it allowed to call members of the family of the President of the Republic or of any politician, because of the cheerleader's love for his country, according to his football team? So the state of Serbia is a particularly provoked football team. If we remember Morina and his drone, which was above the stadium in Belgrade, with the flag of a large Albania, if some members of the Swiss team wear the markings of the false state of KiM on their spears, is it any offense if one of our commentators takes a Russian hat and thus reminds metaphorically of a certain battle, which was not a football battle, but it's just a metaphor? Is it something punitive or is it still forbidden to cultivate love for your team, despite the provocations, even the Swiss representatives, and when we take that Morina who stands out the flag of the great Albania here? So is that love allowed or not and how long will the criminalisation of members of the family of the President of the Republic be suffered in this case just because they cheer for their team? Finally, I would like to remind you that I asked the question – is it true that 25 Croats were killed in Sreme in the 1990s, as the DS or MP group claims and expelled 35,000? Is that true, as well as to be delivered to me a list of victims? If so, and if it is not for the government to give me a clear and loud answer to that question that I have asked twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40397	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40398	Yesterday we heard a good news, which is that Liberia has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence. It seems to me, if I'm not mistaken, that the fourth state in the last period after Guinea-Bissau, the Surinam and Sao Tome and Principe have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence. I wonder when Ana Brnabic will withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence? Ana Brnabic said in the German daily Velt that Kosovo was Serbia, and it has been a few days, i.e. The last three days of the topic uninterrupted in our public and the public is justifiably concerned. How can the Prime Minister speak of the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia as if it were something in the past without currently belonging to Serbia? What is even more doubt - what is the result of this internal dialogue and which is managed by the state leadership at the Brussels negotiations, since it has been going on for two years, so-called. an internal dialogue where the National Convention on the EU is more called and has more legitimacy to give its opinion on KIM than is the Serbian Orthodox Church? So, KIM is to be spoken of in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the bearer of the sovereign government in the Republic of Serbia and there is only one consensus that can be made, not in conventions, humanitarian law funds and with women in black, etc. So, not imaginary dialogues, but the National Assembly. The same thing that worries is a statement called the so-called The president of the Republic of Kosovo, otherwise a Shiptar terrorist, a criminal and a trafficker, who said the next meeting between Alexander Vukic and him in Brussels is the beginning of a final phase of the negotiations to be concluded by signing a legally binding agreement between the Republic of Serbia and so on. the Republic of Kosovo. Why does the public, if that is true, get this information from a statement by the Shyptar terrorist, Hashim Thaci, and the Serbian Parliament is not informed about it? The president of the Republic of Serbia represents a country abroad, but is not authorized and has no legitimacy to do anything without the consent of the majority of MPs or qualified majority if the constitution so requires and must come to the National Assembly to hear Serbia's stance on Kosovo, not to speak in dialogues. The same thing that came up the other day as disturbing information, and in this regard I would ask Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, VBA and VOA directors, as well as BIA directors, which is to operate in Serbia more than 60 secret services, mainly from Western countries, which, as we know, have always subversively acted against the Republic of Serbia and are aimed at harassing the public and spreading false news. So, what does the security apparatus of the Republic of Serbia do about it? How does it get involved and how it imagines that this problem is solved and, first of all, is it true that there are more than 60? What's interesting is that one Serbia, a small country in Europe, with seven million inhabitants, is interesting more than 60 services. Why is that? Is the BIA’s goal perhaps to listen to political opponents rather than to resolve issues that are of interest to the security of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40399	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40400	I thank you, Chairman. My question also involves a request for information from the finance ministry and concerns restitution. This question is raised because part of the professional public expresses certain dilemmas that must be resolved in order to give full effect to the Restitution Act in practice. It is about the fact that the existing Restitution Act defines the right of a natural person who is either a former owner of a seized property or his legal successor to recover that property in the restitution process. I'm undermining, just a legal heir. What about those who are not legally heirs, who are willful heirs, and according to the Legacy Act, willful heirs are equal to legal heirs? Obviously, under the provisions of this law, they have no right to apply for the return of property against the former owner. The question is raised by the professional public – is this constitutional, is this how the ban on discrimination is violated? If the former owner of the seized property has left the will and has declared by that will someone who is not a legal heir, but a third party, for his willful heir, who will inherit his property, or that will may have been declared, but not realised, so it is a person who is the willary heir in the expectation that after the complete process of realisation of the will he will become the owner, now disproved because he does not have the same rights as the legal heir of the former owner. What if the will is available because the legal heirs in any way have sinned against their legal predecessor, father, mother, anyone, because they have not treated their legal predecessor with dignity, that they may have even committed some illegal act, that they are not worthy of inheritance, and therefore the willary heir appears as the heir who predicates the property? Are the same rights of a legal and willful heir being violated in that case? Furthermore, part of the professional public, which I belong to, exhibits a dilemma that once again binds itself to the rights of willful heirs who have even been declared a willary heir, but in the meantime, the assets have already been seized and therefore could not be entered as owners of that property. Does some kind of discrimination seem to them, too? Of course, these are issues related to legal regulation and correct interpretation of the law. We in the SPS parliamentary group in that direction have thoughts that can go in two directions. One way of thinking is to adopt an authentic interpretation of the legal norm from the restitution law. The second question is possibly the need for the law to be complemented or amended in this sense, which also makes sense. In any case, the legislator is us and perhaps in that direction you should also consider that this issue is really settled in an adequate way, but I would ask the Ministry of Finance to in this sense that the appropriate answer. Of course, it should be commended in any case to the Agency for Restitution, which has made a huge contribution when it comes to solving delicate restitutions. So the property was successfully returned to the royal dynasty of Karadjordjevic, property in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, etc. The Agency for Restitution respects all support and we are pleased with such successful work, but we want to contribute through this issue to making this work even more effective. Finally, with this question, I would ask, given that, rather than, I don't know, I recently asked a parliamentary question and the Ministry of Health that I didn't get an answer about the transfusion to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40401	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40402	I thank the chairman. I won't pay attention to these ordered questions that we could hear this morning, ordered by Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, I don't know how much it cost him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this day 26 years ago, so on June 21st 1992, there was a major crime, a crime on the Miljevac plateau. It is the aggression of Croatia on the Miljevački plato, in the area of Drniš in the then-Republic of Serbia on the territories that were at the time protected by the UN, as prescribed by Security Council Resolution 743. With almost no one responsible for this crime, my question has been addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – have all available measures been taken so far during bilateral meetings with Croatian officials, and in order to find and process all those responsible for the crime in which the lives of 40 Serbian militiamen and territorialists were lost, most of whom were massacred after capture? The masculine attack took place on June 21st 1992, in spite of a truce signed several days earlier, in order to hold an International Children's Festival in Sibenik. What is particularly problematic is that it is the first aggression of Croatia after the withdrawal of JNA from Croatia and after the deployment of the international sides of Uprenofor, so-called "Blue helmets", which were tasked with demilitarizing the area and establishing peace. To remind you, in February 1992, the so-called Vance's plan, i.e. The peace operation plan agreement, which envisions demilitarisation of war-related areas. On February 20th 1992, the Security Council Resolution 743, which established Mission Uprenofor, was adopted. Further, on June 8, 1992, the Security Council Resolution 758 was adopted which further strengthens the strength and mandate of Uprenofor. Despite all this, as well as the signed truce several days before, Croatian forces attacked the area, and the epilogue was 40 fiercely killed Serbs who were massacred after the murder and then dumped in the Karsak Cave near the village of Drinovci and then filled with garbage. Only two months after this crime, Croatia allowed the International Explosive Commission to exhume and identify the victims. The process lasted months, and despite all 12 corpses remained unidentified. The Security Council voted on 30 June of the same year for Resolution 762, asking Croatia to withdraw to its posts before 21 June of that year, but Croatia of course never respected it. Especially difficult and painfully falling knowledge that this crime was recorded by a camera, there was a video tape which was then rented as a sort of horror film in Western European countries, as well as that the Croatian radio station "Split" in the final cynicist's manner aired the names of the dead Serbs with the sounds of the Serbian national anthem with the worst possible insults. New aggressions on the Republika Srpska Krajina and new crimes followed the crime. So, on January 22, 1993, on the Straight Wheels was an attack, so-called Operation Maslinica, which killed 348 soldiers and civilians, of course Serbs, and caused by the aggression of 165 civilians. So a total of 513 Serbs. A total of 10,000 Serbs were exiled from the territory, while the villages of Smokovic, Kasic and Islam were completely destroyed and burned. In 1993, an attack on Medak Dzep in Lika, killing 88 Serbs, civilians and soldiers and police officers, and completely destroyed villages of Medak, Chitluk, Pcitel and Divosav. Among civilians is 26 people over 60, of which 17 women. I will quote General Jacques Kott's statement from September 19, 1993: "I have found no signs of life or of humans or animals in several villages we have been through. The destruction was complete, systematic and deliberate." Then came May 1st, after the Storm, which we already know from history. Just one more sentence. If Croatia pleads to be a democratic state that respects human rights, it must face the past and confess its crimes and find those responsible and prosecute them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40403	I thank my colleague Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the next National MP – Stefana Miladanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the request of the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 154 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly, Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you can see, for the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in the Eleventh Assembly, the following Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a War Memorial Act, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters, which the Government has submitted; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, which was submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on Social Security, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece on Social Insurance, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a bill confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Australia on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff, who was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group. National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 170. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the Bill on War Memorials, which was submitted by the Government; the Proposal for a Law on Simplified Labour at Seasonal Jobs in Certain Works, which was submitted by the Government; the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, which was submitted by the Government; the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conditions for the Security of Servants to Work in Foreign Affairs and Their Protection by the Commission; the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia; the Proposal for a Law on the Security of the Republic of Serbia; the Proposal for the Law on the Amendment of the Laws of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Is the People's MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic wants a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – four, abstention – one, 18 MPs did not vote, out of a total of 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40404	Mr President, it is not a matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure, but of the possibility given to me by the Rules of Procedure in Article 97 that, before the opening of the search, I have the right to propose a long search period of time for parliamentary groups from the time laid down in Article 97(1), where five hours are scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40405	I will allow you to speak, but there is not yet a time when you can contact this member. I'll certainly allow you to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40406	It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40407	According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Minister without portfolio, Negovan Stankovic, Nenad Neric and Serb Slav Cvejic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Borajana Stanic and Zoran Milosevic, v.d. Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs, Milica Đurić, Head of the Department for Normal and Labour Care of the Serbia Liberation Wars, Snezana Bogdanović, Head of the Department of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Ljubiša Veličković, Head of the Department for Administrative and Control Affairs in the field of Boraška Disabilities Protection, Slavoljub Carić, Head of the Department for International and Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Jasmina Pekmezović, First Advisor at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Sanja Gavranić, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boraar and Social Affairs, Milena Antic Janić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boraar and Social Affairs and Ljiljana Vasiljljević, independent adviser at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, Social Affairs and Employment, Comrade Obradic, please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40408	Thank you, Chairman. So this is the right moment for me, I'm glad. In fact, Article 97 clearly states that the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, prior to the opening of the search, and this is the moment, has the right to propose a longer search period for parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1, which is five hours. This proposal is being decided by the National Assembly by the majority of the votes of the MPs, which means that you as the ruling majority will, of course, have the final word whether you will accept this proposal, but I think the proposal is very constructive. What exactly is this about? It is that, as is often the case or practically always the case at the National Assembly sessions, a unique search puts entirely different laws from the domains of a completely different jurisdiction of the ministry, so that here we have a series of laws concerning certain elements of labour law, labour and employment in the state of Serbia, and then we enter on the other hand a very complex and serious topic of financial support for families with children, so that we ultimately deal with war veterans, war memorials and similar, very important and serious topics. So these topics have nothing to do with each other, these topics should be specific points of the agenda and these topics deserve much more public attention and much more time for constructive and quality controversy and discussion between MPs. Since this is impossible for us to combine all these points, and this is about 13 proposed agenda points into a single search, and that means that instead of having 13 times the time to talk, we have time to talk about all 13 points of the agenda, which means that we were denied in time to talk quality of the bill proposals that I repeat, there are quality proposals, there are suggestions that we agree on, there are proposals we would like to settle, there are certain criticisms. I don't see why the ruling majority wouldn't accept this as one constructive proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40409	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, no one, with abstentions, has voted 138 MPs, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs (Article 96(4)). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia). In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1) and Article 192(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: the Bill on War Memorials, which was submitted by the Government; the Proposal for a Law on Simplified Labour at Seasonal Jobs in Certain Works, which was submitted by the Government; the Bill on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, which was submitted by the Government; the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conditions of Employees of the Workers to the Foreign Affairs and Security of the Republic of Serbia; the Proposal for a Law on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted by the Republic of Serbia concerning the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Republic; the Proposal for the Laws of the Republic of Serbia on Changes and the Law on the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia; the Charter on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, adopted the Republic of Croatia's, adopted the draft law on the law on the Republic of Croatia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40410	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People, is before you a whole series of laws and I will try to explain one thing at a time. The first is the War Memorial Act. The draft law on war memorials is a codification of the current rules, aimed at more effective functioning of the state administration in the process of protecting regular and investment maintenance, financing maintenance and arrangements of war memorials, establishing and keeping records, removing and building or setting up new war memorials. The rules governing this area were passed 40 years ago, during this time period numerous changes occurred, cease to exist three countries, the territory of the state has changed. The institutions that existed at the time no longer exist and economic conditions are different, as well as the way in which funds are managed and the funding is planned. The practice so far has highlighted the need to pass a new law which would, above all, unequivocally define jurisdiction, overcome and outdated solutions replace the new ones and regulate this area in accordance with the established principles of modern civil society, with respect for human rights. The new legal solution sets out the duties of local self-government units related to the regular maintenance of war memorials on their territory, i.e. clearly defining the responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia, with regard to the investment maintenance of war memorials and local self-government units, with regard to the financing of regular maintenance of these war memorials in the country, which has not been the case so far as to overcome the problem when the local self-government unit is unable to ensure the financing of regular maintenance of war memorials. In order to prevent the collapse and damage of war memorials in the Republic of Serbia, which are important for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, a proposed solution is proposed. Issues of maintaining competence in the area of protection of Serbian war memorials abroad are being settled, jurisdiction is being prescribed to protect war memorials, members of foreign armed forces in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The news is that foreign states are defined to protect their war memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, unless the international agreement otherwise regulates that jurisdiction. This allows efficient and quality control of the spending of funds provided by the Republic of Serbia in the budget for these purposes. There is no regulation in the Republic of Serbia that regulates the power to make decisions to raise new war memorials, as well as the way in which new memorials are built. The biggest newspaper compared to the existing legal regime is the responsibility of the ministry in charge of fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, to give consent to the rise of a new war memorial. The solution to the organisation and removal of the war memorial is foreseen by the minister, according to a previously obtained opinion of the council and the competent institution for the protection of cultural monuments. The proposal to build a war memorial, among other things, needs to contain a proposal for a way to maintain a war memorial. It is also very important to define the elements when a new war memorial is not allowed. State authorities, territorial autonomy bodies, local self-government units, legal and physical persons are not allowed to build or set up a war memorial if it does not respond with its content to historical or real facts, if it offends general and state interests, national and religious feelings or public morals, if it is dedicated to an event that is not in line with the flows of Serbia's Liberation Wars or symbolises the loss of sovereignty, territorial integrity, integrity and independence or freedom of the Republic of Serbia, a person represented by fascist, Nazi, shofinist, separatist ideas and ideologies or who was an associate of aggressor, occupier, their allies or aides. Such an orderly system will bring a uniform application that contributes to the improvement of respect for human rights, national and religious feelings and traditions. The multi-sectoral approach is very important for comprehensive consideration of needs, opinions and initiatives to improve the protection of war memorials. The law provides for the education of councils to cultivate the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars to give an opinion on a proposal to edit war memorials and remove war memorials. The council will include members from the history professor's order and on a proposal from the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Belgrade, Nis, Pristina and Novi Sad, from the ranks of prominent figures in the fields of science and art, on a proposal from the Serbian Academy, science and art, from the public administration, the ministry responsible for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. The organised war memorials as an important segment of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia will become part of a quality and attractive tourist offer. Regular planning will affect cost reduction, and regular activities will be carried out efficiently and in quality. In the current state, the quality of the implementation of activities and insufficiently rational spending of funds also affects the absence of adequate records. This law clearly defines competences, procedures and records are established, the obligation to keep records of all war memorials in the Republic of Serbia, Serbian war memorials abroad as well as of war memorials of members of foreign armed forces in the Republic of Serbia and determine the authorities responsible for keeping records, as well as the central record kept by the ministry responsible for fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. There is also a record of dead persons who have lost their lives due to war events, beginning with the First Balkan War, which has not been established in our country so far, and so far there has been no legal basis for keeping such records in one place. This newspaper implies the co-operation of all authorities holding any partial records. Keeping these records will allow for the data needed for research, as well as consideration of needs, adoption of plans and measures. The ministry has no mechanisms that would oblige local self-governments to carry out their duties. The new law introduces criminal provisions for non-compliance with the law. This newspaper in the field of war memory protection is necessary for more rational budget spending. The objectives achieved by the adoption of the Law on War Memorial are a clear definition of jurisdiction, strengthening responsibility, rationality, efficiency of local self-government units and other institutions, as well as individuals. The law creates the necessary conditions to protect our cultural heritage, related to wartimes. By editing, maintaining and building war memorials, there is also a tradition for future generations, because besides language, letters, history, customs and beliefs, the immovable cultural heritage is one of the identification codes of each nation. A positive effect can also be measured by immaterial values, such as the state's concern and a dignified memory of all the dead, through the protection of war memorials. In 2016, there were 2.7 million employees, 22% of whom were involved in informal engagement, according to the law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities. Out of that number, almost half of the employees come from the agriculture sector. One of the key reasons, informal work in agriculture is also the seasonal character of agriculture-specific jobs, as well as the complicated procedures for the application and check-out of seasonal workers. This adds to the fact that the estimated coverage of the grey economy is only among registered economic operators in agriculture as much as 20.8%. Agriculture has the highest percentage of businesses with informally engaged persons 18.5% while the percentage of VAT on payers is significantly lower than the average, at 8.2%. The high participation of agricultural operators, operating in the gray zone, which is mainly enterprises with a small number of employees, prevents businesses from receiving financial support from either the state, either through the rise of credit for current business or the improvement of production. As a result, the loss of opportunities for further development and raising of living standards is due to the fact that such business binds them to small holdings and a small volume of production. In agriculture, there is also the highest percentage of business entities that engage workers without a contract or with a contract, but without applying for total earnings, 16.3% or 14% respectively. Agriculture also has the highest percentage of business entities that at the same time have both forms informally engaged 11.7% by proposing a law on simplified employment in seasonal jobs in certain activities, it focuses on solving the problem of informally engaged seasonal workers in agriculture. The problem with the engagement of seasonal labour in agriculture is particularly expressed in the summer months when workers are needed for Polish work and harvesting fruits and vegetables. In addition to finding workers, employers also face a large number of bureaucratic procedures that monitor the application and check-out of workers who engage for just a few days, most often under contract for temporary and occasional jobs. In the agricultural sector according to the 2012 agricultural list, there were 1,442,628 persons employed. However, the list does not give a precise number of seasonally employed workers, but expresses them through the category of annual working units. Using the proportion established on the basis of the available data, it is estimated that the number of seasonally employed workers and labour forces under contract ranged from 65,691 persons to 76,863 persons. The seasonal agricultural workers may be engaged either in one of the agricultural holdings or by undertakings whose primary activity is agriculture. In Serbia, there were 631,552 agricultural holdings, almost all of which are family agricultural holdings or 99%. The form of the owners of legal entities and entrepreneurs has 3.158, while 346,155 owners are registered in the register of agricultural holdings. In the case of the number of companies and entrepreneurs engaged in agriculture at the base of the Agency for Commercial Registers, a total of 7,298 companies with predominantly agricultural activity have been registered. For their work, farmers made 54,238 dinars on average in 2016, or 312 dinars per hour. However, seasonally employed agricultural workers often receive money after the end of the working day, and that amount varies from 1,000 to 3,000 dinars, depending on the type of agricultural activity and the work of Serbia in which they work. Therefore, for the purposes of this work it was used to assume that the seasons were declared for minimum earnings of 21.054 dinars in 2016, i.e. they earned 121 dinars per hour or 968 dinars per day. Currently, seasonal workers can be formally engaged through a contract on temporary occasional transactions governed by Articles 197 and 198. The labour law. According to the Tax Administration in 2017, only 3,585 seasonal workers in agriculture were engaged under a contract on temporary occasional jobs, or 95% of seasonal workers were engaged in a gray zone, which tells us that this institute, provided by the Labour Act, is not being used in full capacity. In view of the above, a major problem in agriculture, especially among seasonal workers, is the involvement of seasonal workers in the informal zone. The current legal framework, i.e. by means of a contract on temporary occasional transactions, on the basis of the Labour Act, cannot monitor the dynamics of seasonal jobs in agriculture that involve changes on a daily basis amid weather conditions, labour availability and the like. It is also necessary to introduce a new model of engagement that would allow agricultural individuals to make it relatively easy to report and log out of seasonal workers, following the specificity of this type of work. The adoption of this law will significantly reduce the time required for the application, i.e. the check-out of a seasonal worker, i.e. a flexible way of hiring workers through the use of an electronic platform and without going to the counter. Also, the bill provides for a reduction in the tax rate compared to existing labour employment models, leading to a reduction in costs per seasonal worker, based on taxes and contributions, and which will motivate employers to report their seasonal workers. The introduction of a legal framework for the establishment of a simplified employment system for seasonal workers is foreseen as one of the measures of the government's action plan to implement a national programme to combat the grey economy. According to the proposal for a law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs, a system of simplified employment will be regulated legally, which will free the employer of unnecessary and extensive administrations related to the application and check-out of seasonal workers, and will allow seasons to exercise labour-based rights. The country's benefit due to the introduction of a new system would be to reduce informal unemployment and the grey economy, thereby increasing tax and contribution collection. In addition, this provides jobs and rights based on work for heavily employed and permanently unemployed categories, thus reducing social tensions. The grey economy and informal employment represent one of the leading challenges facing the Republic of Serbia. Unregistered activities significantly harm all interested actors, employers, employees, as well as the state itself. On the one hand, undeclared workers are deprived of basic rights, including pension and health insurance rights, while on the other hand the state fails to collect taxes and contribute. Also, companies operating legally have significantly higher operating costs, especially labour, compared to their competitors in the gray zone. Therefore, all interested forces must have a common goal and task, which is to fight the gray economy. A particular problem is informal employment in the agriculture sector. In the midst of the seasonal nature of jobs in this area, due to the complicated process of application and check-in of workers, most seasonal workers in agriculture are still in the gray zone. The better position of workers should be provided by the Law on the simplified employment of seasonal workers, which, among other things, provides for the introduction of a simplified way of reporting seasonal workers in agriculture through an electronic platform. The implementation of this law does not require financial resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget. For the acquisition of software to be used for electronic application via the Tax Administration portal, as well as for additional training for the use of portals at the central and local level, financial resources are provided through the project "Increasing opportunities for the employment of seasonal workers", implemented by NAD and GIZ, which is financed by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Co-operation and Development. In particular, training will be organised for employees at local service centres, which will provide full support to employers for the registration and check-out of workers via an electronic portal. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, the basic reason for the adoption of this Act, is to specify the provisions of this Act which simplify the process of issuing a work permit for employment, and in order to further develop a more favourable business environment and attract foreign investment. One reason for the adoption of this law is the need to shorten the deadline for carrying out a labour market test, i.e. issuing a work permit for employment. Namely, the labour market test implies that the employer, before applying, did not find citizens of the Republic of Serbia within a certain period, nor persons who have free access to the labour market, or foreigners with a personal work permit, appropriate qualifications from the organisation's records for employment activities. The Foreign Employment Act knows seven types of work permits: personal work permit, work permit for employment, work permit for business, work permit for posting, work permit for independent professionals, work permit for self-employment and work permit for vocational training and training. Analysis of the data on work permits, as observed since the application of the law, i.e. from 4 December 2014 to 31 December 2017, shows that a total of authorisations for work has been issued 21.397. The largest number is just work permits for employment, 3.398. In 2013, the National Employment Service issued 2,784 work permits to foreign citizens with temporary residence in the Republic of Serbia. Most citizens of the Russian Federation, Greece, Macedonia and China. A total of 1,905 work permits were issued to foreign citizens from 1 January to 31 August 2014. On the other hand, in 2015, so one year after the application of the law, the National Employment Service issued a total of 6,362, in which the number of total entry and extensions, of which 2,873 constitute work permits for employment, representing 45.16% of total issued work permits. This trend of issuing the largest number of this type of work permit continues in 2016 and 2017. Thus, in 2017 44.26% of total work permits were issued, while the first four months of 2018 were 40.11%, which is 1.9% higher than the whole previous year. The data analysis also shows a continuation of the trend in increasing the issue of work permits for employment in 2018, ranging from 1 January to 14 May 2018, from 2,956 total issued work permits, the largest number being work permits for employment, and that is 1,329. During the period since the application of the law, while observing the issued permits for the work of a foreigner according to the degree of professional training, it has been observed that the largest number of work permits is issued to foreigners with high professional training – 6,419, followed by foreigners with a fourth degree of professional training – 5,954 and with a third degree of professional training – 1,743. The structure of issued work permits shows that the largest number of foreigners employed is technical professions, electrical engineering, IT sector, engineering of construction, traffic, financial experts and others. Practice has shown that from the beginning of the application of the Foreign Employment Act, there is a great interest of employers, when it comes to the interests of the Republic of Serbia or internationally accepted obligations, to allow a foreigner to enter into work as soon as possible. As a rule, highly qualified foreigners, whose knowledge-how is of great importance for the further development of the business environment in the Republic of Serbia, this change is also proposed. The analysis of the above data shows certainly the positive effects of the application of the Foreign Employment Act, which gives a much more precise picture of the number and movement of foreigners who exercise rights based on work in the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the full regulation of the matter relating to the employment of foreigners and the exercise of the right to work. The main reason for the adoption of this law is to specify and edit certain provisions in order to more effectively implement rules in practice, such as developing a more favourable business environment. These changes will contribute to a better positioning of the Republic of Serbia in terms of increased investment in the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to the involvement of highly qualified experts performing tasks of interest for the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in matters of international importance. Given that the basic reason for the adoption of this law is to more detailedly settle certain issues in order to more effectively implement the rules in practice, then to make the proposed changes to the matter that needs to be regulated by law, but also the urgency in action, resulting in other regulatory options, such as the adoption of a new law, or non-regulatory options, such as information campaigns, simply not possible. The impact this regulation produces is certainly positive, as the area of issue of the work permit is more precisely regulated in relation to individual categories of foreigners. Those amendments shall contribute and simplify the reduction of the work permit issue process itself. Decisions under this law will primarily affect employers who, by cutting the period for which the labour market test is carried out, without delay, are able to carry out tasks of interest for the Republic of Serbia, but also for certain categories of foreigners covered by amendments and additions to the law. The application of this law will not create costs for citizens or businesses, since this regulation does not regulate any new financial obligation to economic operators and citizens, nor should financial resources be provided for the implementation of this law. On the contrary, changes and additions to this law are expected to have positive effects on the Republic of Serbia's budget. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, it is envisaged that the posting of temporary staff abroad plays an important role in increasing business and creating business opportunities and, as such, represents a significant source of additional foreign exchange revenues for the countries which refer to the employees. Most addressed workers, over half of the total number, work in the industrial sector, then in the services, transport and communications sector. The application of the Law on Conditions for sending temporary staff abroad and their protection has not achieved the expected results in the work relating to the collection and analysis of data, and it is necessary to delete existing legal provisions relating to the referencing procedure, i.e. to abolish the employer's legal obligation to deliver to the Ministry responsible for the work of notification of the posting of temporary staff abroad, published on the Ministry's website and assurances from the single central register base. By law and by means of a sublegal act adopted under that law, it is prescribed that the employer is obliged to deliver notices to the Ministry of Information on the posting of temporary work abroad and assurances to the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance on the change in the basis of insurance for posted employees under this notice. Also, the employer is obliged to deliver any change from the notice to the Ministry. The ministry, after receiving notice of sending employees to temporary work abroad, publishes it on its internet portal within seven days. The abolition of existing legal obligations will reduce the unnecessary administration provided for by this law by employers, thus enabling faster and more efficient business. In addition to erasing these provisions, the fact that the Central Register already has data for temporary work abroad, as well as the employers who refer them, is therefore not necessary to duplicate the databases. The Central Registry database shall also be accessible to the Labour Inspectorate, so as to maintain continuity in the exercise of inspection supervision, in accordance with the law. The application of the existing law gave positive results in the part of a significant increase in the number of employers, demands and employees sent abroad. Namely, they point to an increase in the number of applications and notifications filed 19 times, the number of employers who submitted the requests 4.5 times and the number of employees addressed 14.7 times and that new legal solutions were accepted by employers from the Republic of Serbia because they recognized the needs of employers who referred their employees to temporary work abroad. The law respected the need for employers to react extremely quickly on the international market when completing completed contracts with foreign partners, which relate to sending employees to temporary work abroad. These indicators allowed employers to be able to send temporary workers abroad uninterrupted and thus be present and competitive on the foreign market, and without unnecessary administration in the form of submission of documentation, waiting for approval by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. It was these indicators that indicated that the Ministry had access to the analysis and looked at the extent of the documentation provided by employers, as well as the data volume contained, on the basis of which it saw that it did not have adequate technical and human capacities which could be monitored entirely, and by several different individual criteria, the reference of employees to temporary work abroad. Each individual notification delivered to this ministry is legally required by the employer to provide assurance. The number of assurances received, the Central Insurance Register’s assurances for each individual reference notice, i.e. the return assurance, greatly increases the number of data to be processed. At least two credentials per notice, and on average 2.5 credentials per year. Based on the above, it can be concluded that it is an extremely large number of submissions that arrived in this ministry for processing during the previous period. In the course of law enforcement, this ministry has, in addition to the above, observed that a number of employers who only fulfil formal requirements have appeared to refer temporary work abroad to persons employed by third parties or to engage in contractual obligations inadequately. According to the Labour Inspectorate, in a large number of cases, illegal reference to work abroad has been made by employers who do not carry out economic activity in our country, but, fictitiously, at the Agency for Business Registers, have entered the establishment of a legal person with a business centre at the addresses of agencies providing them with accounting or other services, as well as non-existent addresses. The work for which these employers are registered is not the same as the activities for which they conclude working contracts with persons who refer to work abroad. Furthermore, work contracts are concluded fictitically, and persons who conclude them as employees do not enter into work in the employer's business space in the Republic of Serbia. The most frequently posted persons are taken over by other employers in the country they are referencing, who continue to intervene for the purposes of third parties, and completed labour contracts and annex contracts with employers from the Republic of Serbia are merely the satisfaction of the form prescribed by domestic regulations. This also applies to employment agencies intervening in foreign employment and acting contrary to the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment, and by not providing work and residence permits before referring to work abroad and by not concluding work contracts before going abroad, in order to prevent abuses detected through years of practice. The obligation of the employer to change the base of insurance for each posted employee has been established by the applicable Law on the central register of compulsory social security. The paper is the obligation of the employer to carry out the state of reference when changing the basics of insurance and legal provisions on the basis of which the ministry has the data of the central register in the form of reports provided by the Central Register on a monthly basis, quarterly and annual basis by several different criteria. In addition to delivering these reports regularly to the Central Registry, they will also submit reports on the basis of questions from the ministry in electronic form. The objectives achieved by the adoption of this law are to establish a new legal concept that would simplify and facilitate the process of sending employees to temporary work abroad and employers will be relieved of the excessive administrative procedures on the one hand, and on the other hand, the level of protection of employees will be maintained. In addition, the aim of passing laws is to warn and correct irregularities in the process of sending employees to temporary work abroad, and based on experience from practice. Based on the established co-operation with the Central Register, and given that it has a comprehensive database, the amendment of this law provides that at monthly, quarterly and annual level, the Central Registry will deliver reports to the Ministry on the posting of employees by state and by employers as well as on other prescribed criteria. In this way, the ministry will receive already processed data from the Central Register, to monitor movement, analyse and take appropriate measures to protect our employees who are directed to temporary work abroad. The new modern legislative solution is adapted to the modern market, economic, financial, legal, constitutional and socio-political order and system. The provisions of the Financial Support Act for families with children are part of the overall social care for children and refers to improving conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, special incentives for the birth of children and support for materially endangered families, families with disabilities and children without parental ageing. I would place a special accent on the urgency of adopting this law and on the specificity of Serbia when it comes to negative natural growth. President Aleksandar Vukic, in his March talk, rightly concluded that in the last 65 years, our people have slowly disappeared and that in the last 27 years we have had a negative natural growth. He warned, I remind you, that if such a trend continues for only 40 years, as a state and as a nation, we will disappear from the face of the earth. I would therefore appeal to all those present not to look at the adoption of this law with the usual party caprique and opposition sedition, not to put on the cantar effect of us and of the other parties, but to all together to understand the seriousness of the situation and our historical responsibility in facing it, take a highly constructive approach and do our best to help resolve this urgent issue of cardinal importance. Namely, central Serbia and AP Vojvodina are affected by very unfavourable demographic movements. The population has long not been restored in the same proportion because the fertility rate has been below the need for simple reproduction for decades. The number of newborns is far lower than the number of deaths, so natural growth is negative both in total and in the largest number of municipalities. The population is rapidly old, the depopulation process is rapid, the share of the old is increasing in the total population. Long-term demographic projections indicate even more unfavourable trends in the future and a significant reduction in population. Such movements have extremely unfavourable social and economic consequences and require an effective political response from the state immediately. The law on financial support for families with children is based on the right and duty of parents to raise and raise children, the right of children to living conditions that allow the proper development and commitment of the state to support the welfare of families, children and future generations. Hence, this law represents not only the country's definition of social policy, but also demographic needs, at the same time, an important instrument of population policy. The new legislative solutions contribute to meeting the objectives set out for implementing the amended and updated Strategy for Incentives of Birth, and with its provisions, this law clearly and unequivocally confirms the country's determination to address one of the biggest problems today, which is insufficiently the number of newborn children. Under this problem, our President Aleksandar Vucic also pointed to the problem of a large number of kiretages, which are decided by our fellow citizens facing the challenge of motherhood. I would like to point out that there is no word in his findings about any depriving women's rights and freedoms, and especially not the misogonies they were hastening to show those people who were otherwise under the struggle of the so-called. By fighting for human rights, they mean defending their personal privileges and the privilege of a tight circle of people to whom they alone belong. On the contrary, as equal members of the society according to the Constitution and the law of the Serbian citizen, they have full authority to have their own body and freedom to make their own decisions on matters concerning them. The message of President Vukic refers to the fact that only the child's conception implies a certain responsibility, not to me, but to the representatives of the medical profession to educate our young fellow citizens about all the good and bad consequences that abortion and pregnancy can have on their physical and mental health. I therefore call on the professional public as well as civil sector representatives to take active participation in the education of the population, although the birth rate is justifiably linked to the level of living standards in society, and despite the successful implementation of the fiscal consolidation measure for the first time in this century created real economic conditions for Serbia's stable and long-term economic growth, increasing financial incentives by the state, should be monitored by raising awareness of the importance of personal responsibility always and everywhere, especially in parenting. It should be pointed out that the parenting supplement in terms of content and materiality is the main instrument of population policy and this law defines the amount, the way in which the parental allowance is paid and the amount of the parental allowance and the flat-rate for the purchase of child equipment. In the process of exercising the right to a parental allowance as special conditions, regular vaccination of all children of mothers in accordance with regulations in the field of health care of the Republic of Serbia, as well as regular attendance of preschool children, preparatory preschool under the preschool education and education system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. regular teaching under the primary school education system of the Republic of Serbia, children of primary school age. Also in the provisions of the Law on the financial support of families with children relating to the right to income compensation during maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and leave of work for the special care of the child and the right to other benefits based on the birth and care of the child, special care of the child, corrections have been made with regard to the clearer definition of the bases to be taken as relevant and in the period of application of individual rights. From the impact on the calculation of the amount of the salary fee, i.e. remuneration and other fees, as well as the necessary corrections established by direct payment entitlements to the account of the user. This law also made a correction in respect of incomes which have an impact on the exercise of the right to a child's allowance and are related to new amounts of parental allowance for the third and fourth children. The law has made the necessary additions concerning the protection of personal data. The amount of the parental allowance defined by this law shall be covered by additional money in 2018, amounting to three and a half billion dinars, while in 2019, funding of 12 billion dinars will be needed to pay this right. The increase in the amount of the parental allowance by the second, third and fourth children and the extension of the period of implementation, i.e. the payment of the right for the third and fourth children from 24 months to 120 months, will require significant financial resources in the coming years. The reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure are in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are contained in the fact that the proposed legal solution is being amended and complemented by the Law on Financial Support for families with children whose application is due to begin on 1 July 2018. Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the laws and other general acts enter into force as early as the eighth day since the day of publication and that they may enter into force earlier if there are particularly justified conditions laid down in the adoption of their law, which is the case with this law. The law provides for its entry into force the next day from the day of publication, given that the basic text of the law, as I said, on the Law on financial support for families with children, which entered into force on 25 December 2017, begins with the application of 1 July 2018. Given the complementarity of the provisions of this law with the basic text of the Financial Support Act to families with children, it is necessary to create conditions that all provisions of this law can be applied from 1 July 2018. The law on basic rights of fighters, military people with disabilities and families of fallen fighters, along with others, also stipulates rights to combat, personal, family and increased family disability, care and assistance, orthopedic supplement and unemployment benefits. The basic solutions are that rights are determined in an appropriate percentage amount of the basics, i.e. from the average monthly earnings, without taxes and contributions in the Republic of Serbia from the previous month, and without increasing the right to compensation during unemployment increased by 30%, to determine the amount of the fighting allowance increased by 80%, to determine the other said rights. By establishing the rights according to the previous month's figure, this implies that the amounts of recognised rights are adjusted monthly with the percentage of the profit movement. The amounts and percentages of monthly adjustments of the rights shall be determined on the basis of data published by the Republic Statistics Office. Taking into account that statistical data are necessary for the implementation of this procedure, as well as that statistics on the average earnings and the movement of earnings during the year are published 55 days after the end of the month for which statistics are provided, this data cannot be determined on a timely basis for the calculation of the corresponding basic amount of the right, as well as the harmonised monthly amount of the right. This is due to the fact that the competent authorities cannot make decisions under the requirements of the parties within legally prescribed time limits, since they cannot determine the amounts of the right, and in the process of monthly payment of the right, payments will be made irregularly and with a significant delay. The proposed changes and additions solve these problems. Moreover, since the law has passed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it is the basis for establishing the amount of rights prescribed average earnings in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. With these changes and additions, this solution is brought into line with the real situation and provides for average earnings in the Republic of Serbia as the basis. The law lays down provisions on the supervision of the enforcement of that law, which, in addition to other matters, is also carried out through inspection supervision. In its conclusion 05 No. 011-701/2018 of 31 January 2018, the Government tasked the departments responsible for the specific laws which set out the need to comply with the inspection law, the implementation of the procedure for the preparation of the bill and the Government of the delivery of those laws, in accordance with the Inspectorate Control Act. In order to comply with the Law on the Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, and the families of fallen fighters with the Law on Inspectives, provisions relating to inspection control have been deleted. This for the next reasons. The law on the fundamental rights of fighters, military people with disabilities and families of fallen fighters is a law passed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The funds for the implementation of that law were provided in the budget of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and the implementation of this law was entrusted to the competent authorities in the republics. Therefore, in this law the specific inspection control provisions prescribed by the competent authorities of the SRJ provided for the control of the regularity and application of the law and the correctness of the spending of funds from the federal budget. After the end of the existence of the SRJ, this law is further applied as a Republic law. In the preparation of that law, as a Republic law, funds for its implementation are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The law is implemented by the competent administrative authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The supervision of the enforcement of this law shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The finance, budgetary inspections, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, administrative inspections and the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, based on the exercise of the right of supervision of the exercise of entrusted tasks. Therefore, the provisions governing the right of the federal authorities to oversee the enforcement of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters are laid down. The Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Family Members, as well as other Fundamental Rights, prescribes the right to monthly monetary income, the right to a care allowance and the right to a family allowance. The right to monthly income provides the protection of materially unsecured fighters, military people with disabilities and family disability users. The right to a care allowance – provides additional material protection for monthly income users, who are unable to meet all basic needs of life and who need care and assistance from another person. The right to a family allowance provides materially unsecured users of the family disability, based on a military disabled who has been added to care and assistance by another person. Since the right to monthly income and family allowance are granted by those persons if they are materially unsecured and during the time they are materially unsecured, this acquisition of these rights does not constitute a permanent view of protection, as depending on the income of users and members of its household, changes in household income can lead to an increase or reduction, but also a loss of further use of this right. The law lays down conditions for the exercise of the right to monthly income and amounts to that right. The basic solutions are that the rights are determined according to the average monthly income of the users and members of their households from the previous year, i.e. from the first month following the receipt of the revenue, unless the revenue has been achieved in the previous year. Property censorships and the basis for the establishment of the right were determined by the corresponding percentage amount of the average monthly tax-free earnings and contributions to the Republic of Serbia from the previous year. By way of derogation from Article 16(1), The laws lay down the conditions for the exercise of the right to a care allowance and the amount of that right, which are determined in the corresponding percentage amount of the average monthly earnings, excluding taxes and contributions in the Republic for the previous years. It is prescribed that the right to a family allowance is determined in the amount which is the difference between 85 from the care allowance and the assistance from another person in whom the military disability was classified and income per household member. The assessment of the property conditions for the recognition of the right to receive monthly income shall be carried out according to the regular income of the users and members of his household from the previous year in relation to the year in which the beneficiary has exercised that right, i.e. by the first month following receipt of the income and shall be valid until 31 March of the following year. The harmonisation of the right to monthly income and family allowance shall take place under official duty according to the incomes of users and members of its household from the previous year, with the legal fact of 1 April of the current year. The right to monthly income is harmonised each month with the increase in the average monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia in the current year compared to the average monthly earnings of the previous year. The right to a family allowance is harmonised every month according to the percentage of the increase in care supplements and assistance by the other person. The law stipulates that at the beginning of next year, the final alignment of the right to monthly income and care allowance is carried out. It is prescribed that the decision of the municipal authority adopted in the first instance, which recognises the rights to monthly monetary income and family allowance, shall be subject to review and the audit carried out within three months of the receipt of the decision by the second-degree authority shall delay the execution of the solution. The right to monthly income and family allowance shall be recognised for the first time at the request of the party from the first day of the following month following the adoption of the request, after which a decision shall be adopted each year on official duty to bring them into line during the accounting periods from 1 April of the following year to 31 March of the following year. In view of the need for the implementation of this procedure, statistics on the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia from the previous year and on the growth data in the course of the year, and the statistics on earnings in the previous year and on the movement of earnings during the year shall be made 55 days after the end of the year, i.e. the month for which statistics are given. These are the data for the purpose of calculating property census, the basis for determining the corresponding amounts of law and the harmonised monthly amount of law starting in April of the current year cannot be determined on a timely basis. Given that, prior to the adoption of a decision on the harmonisation of the right, it is necessary to carry out a proof procedure, to obtain those statistics, to wait for the expiry of the deadline for the appeal, to carry out the review procedure, the decision on the harmonisation of the right may become enforceable in the second half of the year, and in the case of municipalities having problems in carrying out these tasks and later. In order for users not to be achieved without material security, from 1 April to the enforcement of the decision on the harmonisation of the right for the current year, they should be subject to an advance payment of the amount of the right, recognised by the decision on the harmonisation of the right for the preceding accounting period, and in the process of monthly payment of payment rights would be carried out with a considerable delay. In addition, in practice, non-risk alignment of the right to monthly income and family allowance every year has been demonstrated, in view of the obligation of the users to report to the competent first-degree authority any change from the impact on the law, and that the obligation of the competent authority to monitor those changes and initiate the decision-making procedure following the changes made. In addition, the monthly harmonisation of recognised amounts of rights, in line with the movement of the average monthly income without taxes and contributions, cannot be done on an up-to-date basis because of the prolonged publication of statistical data, the complicated calculation of the amount, the rights of municipal administrations, leading to delays and irregularities in the payment of the right. The proposed amendments and additions solve these problems, since for those reasons no annual harmonisation of the right to monthly income will be performed. These are deleted provisions on the final annual harmonisation of amounts. One more thing to mention. That's very important. So, both laws on fighters are not reduced by any rights compared to how it was before, even on the contrary, we looked to be as flexible as possible, to have as little administrative costs as possible, to get some things that were complicated in the earlier procedures out of place, and the amounts that were going to be guaranteed now and will be paid to all fighters. Also, we predicted, the Working Group is already formed, where all associations will be, all alliances of fighters who will be with us by the end of the year, I believe, here in the assembly procedure, and this is also the initiative of our President Alexander Vukic, to get a roof law that will measure all fighters, to protect their rights and all the obligations that the state has towards them, and it will show a much greater responsibility of the state, because within a very short period of time, and that is six months, we will go before you, I believe, and vote that law. The 14-year application of the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes in the Republic of Serbia has led to a reduction in the number of court proceedings on the basis of working disputes, thus achieving savings and time and money, but has pointed to a number of problems in practice. First of all, it was necessary to extend the circle of labour disputes that could be resolved by means of a peacemaker, i.e. an arbiter, in which way this way of resolving the dispute would be further affirmed. The area of peaceful settlement of labour disputes was for the first time governed by the 2004 Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which established the Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes and amended them in 2009. The Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes plays an important role in the development of social dialogue and the promotion of peaceful work dispute resolution methods. From 2005 to 2018, i.e. the establishment of the Agency, 15.265 proposals were submitted for a peaceful settlement of the work dispute, of which 5,905 disputes were metrically resolved, and the rest was settled in the administrative procedure, given the basic principle on which the Agency is acting, which is the principle of volunteering, i.e. the agreement of the parties to the dispute to sit at the table and find a peaceful solution. Of the total number of procedures initiated, 14.995 were individual and 270 collective labour disputes. The key reasons for amending the law are the discharging of courts, improving the relationship between employers and employees, saving budget funds, harmonising with the views and principles of the IOR. The promotion of the legislative framework should contribute to encouraging employers and employees to resolve disputes in a peaceful manner, through the peacemaker and the arbitration officer of the Agency, in order to minimise the costs of courts and parties in the dispute. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes provides for the possibility of improving the procedure for peaceful settlement of individual and collective labour disputes and reducing the costs that labour dispute necessarily entails, whether the number of days lost in the event of a strike or the costs of court proceedings. When it comes to a circle of labour disputes that can be resolved peacefully in the field of collective disputes, the peace-making process can now resolve disputes arising from the right to determine the representativeness of the trade union in the employer and disputes regarding the establishment of minimum labour processes in accordance with the law. Also, in the section relating to the application of collective agreements, precision has been carried out, so that the application of collective agreements is considered to be the application of the whole collective contract or its specific provisions for the reason it was necessary to remove the inability to resolve the issues in relation to the application of certain provisions, insufficiently clearly specified provisions in the proceedings before the Peacekeeper. The aim of the supplement is to consider collective labour dispute also a dispute over the exercise of the right to determine the representativeness of the trade union in the employer and to bring employers who do not wish to determine the representativeness of the union in the peace settlement process to know the obligations arising from the Labour Act and also to reduce the number of cases before the Trade Union Committee. In view of the fact that the minimum working process issue has been established by law, there are no rare cases of disputes on the establishment of minimum labour processes, and it was also necessary for these cases to determine the jurisdiction of the Republic Agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. In the case of activity of general interest in which there is an obligation to ensure the minimum working process in accordance with the law governing the area of strike and disputes concerning the determination of representativeness and disputes regarding the establishment of minimum labour processes, there is an opportunity to initiate proceedings under official duty. Jurisdiction for individual labour disputes is extended to payout disputes, i.e. earnings, wages — earnings in accordance with the law, and so far there has been only a dispute over the payment of minimum earnings, payment of expenses and other receipts in accordance with the law, payment of compensation when going to retirement, working time and the exercise of the right to an annual holiday. It was necessary to supplement the provisions relating to the parties to the collective dispute, as the existing law under the collective dispute considers participants of a collective contract, i.e. the employer, trade union, employee or representative of employees in relation to the application of a collective contract or general act and the exercise of collective law in accordance with the law. However, in practice, the strike committee and the founder of public enterprises and public services that are now recognised as parties to the dispute appear as foreign parties. When it comes to discrimination and abuse at work, the definition of parties in the dispute has been expanded, so the party in the dispute is no longer considered only employees, the employer, but leaves the possibility of being outside the working relationship, and in accordance with the law. It has been carried out to specify the definition of arbitration, so that arbitration is considered a procedure in which the arbitration tribunal resolves the case of an individual dispute and does not decide on the subject matter of an individual dispute, since the new solution allows for the adoption of an arbitration solution on the basis of the agreement reached by the party in the dispute which excludes the decision of the arbitration panel. The deadlines for granting consent for the conduct of the proceedings have also been extended, the deadline for agreement on the selection of a peacemaker or arbiter has been extended, and for the initiation of proceedings in matters of public interest. All deadlines in the days have been replaced by working days. The aim of these changes was to establish real deadlines for action. The procedure before the Peace Committee may be extended for another 30 days if it does not end within 30 days of the date of the opening of the debate. Since collective disputes often last longer because of the complexity of the dispute in question and the difficulty in communication that is conditioned by different interests and views of the parties in the dispute, the practice has shown that it is necessary to extend the settlement procedure to the party's request in the dispute for another 30 days. The requirement for an extension is for both parties to reach a previous consensus on this, and the objective of extending the deadline is to settle the dispute peacefully because it is in the interest of the parties to the dispute. The Commission shall take a decision on the selection within 60 days of the expiry of the time limit for the submission of applications, and the contest for the selection of peacemakers and arbiters, not only as until now, within 15 days of the obligation of the Authority to take into account, in accordance with the law, the information on the facts necessary for the decision and on which the official record is kept, and to obtain and process them. The aim of these changes was to make the institutions realistic, too, frameworks for action. When it comes to ending the dispute, the Peacekeeper only proposes a recommendation no later than three days from the date of the conclusion of the debate, while so far he could propose a recommendation without any party in the dispute asking him to. The relevant law stipulates that if parties accept the recommendation in the dispute, they conclude a dispute settlement agreement, and if the subject of the dispute is a collective agreement becomes an integral part of the collective agreement. If the subject matter of the dispute is not a collective contract, then the agreement has the power of an executive id. These provisions create many problems in application, and they need to be amended. Amendments introduce a solution under which a dispute settlement agreement can be concluded on the basis of a recommendation or independent from it. The agreement cannot be an integral part of the collective agreement, but there is a basis for concluding changes and supplementing the collective agreement or for having the power of the executive document. Compared to the solution so far, the possibility has been avoided that the agreement, which consists of parties to the dispute, is an integral part of the collective agreement, because the agreement is drawn up in free form, and the collective agreement should contain the structure of the general act and that, when making up, amend and supplementing the basic methodological rules for the making of rules, and in particular, the party to the dispute before the agency does not have to be the representative union that participates in the conclusion of the collective agreement, so the question arises: how can the agreement become part of a collective contract in which the party was not involved in the conclusion, which was in the preparation of the applicable law - creates problems. The arbitration panel shall adopt a solution, first of all, on the basis of an agreement by the parties in the dispute, and if the arbitration procedure has become impossible in the event of the suspension of the proceedings, which is all the news in relation to the earlier settlement in the law, and may decide on the matter of the dispute, only if there is no party to the dispute on which a solution could be made. A solution made under the dispute agreement, as well as a solution which the arbitration panel decides on the case of the dispute shall have the power of the executive document. The dispute over abuse and discrimination can only end on the basis of an agreement by the parties in the dispute, and if the same arbitration panel does not exist, it provides a solution to suspend the proceedings and points out to the parties in the dispute that the same legal case can be conducted. The debate is held publicly, except in disputes over discrimination and abuse at work. Since it is disputes which may contain facts and evidence, which could have negative consequences for the party to the dispute, it was necessary to exclude the public in these disputes, while at the same time implementing harmonisation with the solution in the Law on Preventing Labour Abuse. The possibility is provided that if the parties to the dispute wish to do so, they can hire a court expert to which the provisions of this arbitration law are applied accordingly. Unlike the arbiter and peacekeeper services, which are parties to the dispute free costs of hiring a court expert would be borne by each of the parties to the dispute. Since the peacemaker and the arbiter are being resolved in the employer’s rooms when resolving work disputes, there has often been a problem with the identification of the peacekeepers and the arbiter when arriving in the employer’s room. By introducing official identification cards, the problem is eliminated. It was necessary to establish a legal basis for the adoption of an ethical code in order to standardise the peaceable behaviour of the peacekeeper and the arbiter. The peacemaker and arbiters in the process of peaceful settlement of labour disputes will be obliged to adhere to the code of ethics brought by the minister responsible for work. The objective of the amending and supplementing the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes is primarily to improve the legislative framework in the area, which includes the creation of a legislative framework in which the role of the Agency will be strengthened in order to resolve as many individual and collective labour disputes as possible in a peaceful and efficient manner, to reduce the number of labour disputes that are conducted before courts and their discharge, to improve social dialogue, to save funds financed from the budget, to improve the conditions for the work of the peacemakers and arbiters, to improve the work and results of the peacemakers and arbiters, to communicate with the social partners, to co-operate with union organisations and employers' associations and to establish mechanisms for reporting the outcomes of the execution of the final solutions of the peacers and arbiter. The social security area between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation is not regulated by the concluded Social Security Agreement. Given the numerous citizens of the Republic of Serbia working in the Russian Federation, as well as the need for further development and consolidation of friendly relations in all areas, including in the area of social security, the foreign parties agreed to start negotiations in order to conclude a social security agreement. Eight rounds of negotiations with the Russian Federation were held between October 2010 and October 2017. The text of the agreed agreement was initialled three times by 2107. The agreement was finally agreed only after an official visit to the Republic of Serbia by Minister of Labour and Social Protection to the Russian Federation Maksim Antoljević Topiljin, and the agreement was signed in Moscow on 19 December 2017. The ninth round of negotiations, held in Moscow between 26 and 30 March 2018, discussed technical documents necessary for the application of the agreement, administrative agreement, protocol and forms. There's a signing of them. This agreement regulated the exercise of pension-inhabitation rights and the right to an age-old, early retirement, disability and family pension, then the right to compensation for funeral expenses, as well as the right to give in the event of injury to work and occupational illness. The agreements allow those who do not have sufficient training to ensure that, through the completed application of their national rules, they exercise this right to retire on the basis of the collection of the insurance standings completed in both Contracting States. It is very important to take into account, for the purpose of establishing the right to pension, the insurance position which has been completed before the entry into force of this Agreement by the parties to the rules of law of the Contracting Parties. Although our side has proposed this, agreements do not regulate the area of health insurance. The Russian side stressed that the issue of health protection for the citizens of the two countries could be found within the framework of an agreement on regulating the issue of temporary employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. In order to ensure the social security of workers, migrants and the highest legal protection, agreements are based on the latest European standards in this area. Therefore, the agreed agreements are based on the generally accepted principles and experiences of our country in this area, as well as on the standards provided for by EU Regulation No 883/04 on the coordination of the social protection system, which primarily regulates the social security of workers, migrants. The agreements also provide for the application of national legislation in that area, including any newling of national legislation through amendments and additions to the rules. The provisions of the agreement represent the following standard principles, i.e. principles: First, equal treatment of nationals of contracting states in the field of social security. This principle implies that when the legal provisions of one State Contracting State are applied, the nationals of another Contracting State are equal to its citizens. The fact that the person of the citizen of another Contracting State will not lead to the loss or difficulty in exercising his right in the first State Party, thus providing equal treatment. Two, it determines the applicableness of legislation, i.e. rules on the basis of which in each particular case it can be precisely determined whether the legislation of one or other Contracting States is applied, as well as which regulations are specifically applicable. The applicable laws can be implemented in a number of ways. The basic rule, i.e. the rule of the place of work which implies applying the legislation of the country of employment, of which the agreement provides for certain exceptions where a specific situation so requires. For example, persons addressed to work abroad by employers, persons working in several countries, sailors, etc. Under three, the preservation of acquired rights and the collection of periods of insurance which implies that periods of employment or other activity, completed in one country, are recognised when gaining and determining the level of rights in another Contracting State. If this is necessary for the exercise of rights, internships, arrangements completed on the territory of one Contracting State, the other Contracting State will take into account, including the insurance internship completed on the territory of the Contracting States before the entry into force of this Agreement, ensuring the preservation of the rights acquired. Under four, payment, i.e. the transfer of the payment in case of a change in residence to another State of the Contracting Party. The use of compulsory social security rights is not limited to the territory in which those rights have been exercised and ensures that payment on the territory of the other party to the contract, transfer to the country of origin, or residence is carried out without a reduction in the amount of the grant, thus ensuring equalisation of the territory. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia was signed in Ljubljana at a joint session of two governments on 1 February 2018. It is mentioned significantly that this agreement, the first employment agreement that the government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded with one EU member state. The Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs assessed the Slovenian party's legitimate initiative to conclude a contract in the area of employment primarily because of the needs of Slovenian businessmen to engage in deficits. Given the above, it has been estimated that there is a mutual interest to regulate bilaterally, i.e. between the two states in the area of employment of Serbian citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular the interests of the Serbian side, to regulate the protection of our citizens. In fact, employment agreements represent the best form of guarantee for our citizens who intend to work abroad, because they are being hired organised, based on pre-established working conditions, according to a pre-established procedure. We also point out that this agreement regulates the one-way employment of Serbian citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, while the Slovenian side is shown to be interested in considering the possibility of concluding an agreement that would include mutually the employment of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. This agreement lays down the conditions and scope of employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the worker must be an unemployed person, registered on the National Employment Service records and is over 18 years of age. The competent Slovenian authority may determine the annual volume of admissions of workers in accordance with the labour market situation and the expressed needs of the employer, and on the other hand, the Republic of Serbia may, in accordance with its legislation, limit the employment of certain categories of occupations which are assessed on the basis of an analysis of the situation in order to endanger the state of employment in the domestic labour market. Conditions and procedures for the authorisation of employment, i.e. the working contract is concluded on a period of at least one year, with the possibility of a three-month trial work contract based on a working contract and a three-year permit is issued. The rights and obligations of employers and migrant workers, the right to equal treatment, working conditions, salaries, termination of work contracts, safety and health at work, association with organisations, education, professional training, social security under the law and the international contract are also governed by this agreement. This agreement also arranged a way to exchange information between competent institutions for the implementation of this Agreement in order to better inform citizens of the Republic of Serbia who intend to hire in Slovenia and provides for the creation of an informant that will contain general information on the conditions of life and work in Slovenia. The Protocol, i.e. the Agreement, also provides for the signing of a protocol setting out how competent authorities would co-operate with competent institutions, a list of needs with job vacancies, methods and deadlines for the delivery of lists, election procedures, or selection of candidates, the time limit for sending a list of candidates, the way and the time limit for signing a working contract. It also provides for the establishment of an inter-state commission to meet once a year and, if necessary, more frequently. The social security area between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece is not regulated by the concluded Social Security Agreement. Given the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia working in the Republic of Greece, as well as the need to further develop and strengthen friendly relations in all areas, as well as in the area of social security, the parties agreed to start negotiations to conclude a social security agreement. Five ore negotiations were held with the Republic of Greece between September 2006 and May 2017. This agreement established the exercise of pension and disability insurance rights, and thus the right to an age, early retirement, disability and family pension. The agreement allows persons who do not have enough insurance training to exercise their pension rights through the completion of their national rules on the basis of the collection of insurance training completed in both Contracting States. It is very important to take into account, for the purpose of establishing the right to pension, the insurance position which has been completed before the entry into force of this Agreement, according to the legal regulations of the foreign Contracting Party. Although our side has proposed this, agreements do not regulate the area of health insurance. The Greek side did not accept that proposal for reasons of difficulties in coordinating the health care system. In Greece, it is currently a transitional phase of the implementation of the new social security system, and the Greek side is unable to consider the Serbian requirement until the organisation and functional unification of the new joint social security office is completed. However, it is not excluded to consider Serbia's requirement in the future. In order to ensure the social security of migrant workers and the highest legal protection of agreements are based on the latest European standards in this area. Therefore, the agreed agreements are based on the generally accepted principles and experiences of our country in this area, as well as on the standards provided for by EU Regulation No 883/04 on the coordination of the social security system, which primarily regulates the social security of migrant workers. The agreements also provide for the application of national legislation in that area, including any newling of national legislation through amendments and additions to the rules. The provisions of the agreement also represent the following standard principles, i.e. principles, under one, equal treatment of nationals of contracting states in the field of social security. This principle implies that when the legal provisions of one State Contracting State are applied, the nationals of another Contracting State are equal to its citizens. The fact is that the person of the citizen of the other Contracting State will not lead to the loss or difficulty in exercising their rights in the first State of the Contracting Party, thus providing equal treatment. Under two, the determination of applicable legislation, i.e. the rules on the basis of which in each particular case it can be precisely determined whether the legislation of one or the other party of the Contracting State is applicable, as well as which regulations are specifically applicable. The applicable laws can be established in several ways. The basic rule, i.e. the rule of place of work, which implies applying the legislation of the country of employment, which provides for certain exceptions, when required by a specific situation – persons referred to abroad by employers, persons working in several countries, seamen, etc. By safeguarding the rights acquired and assembling the period of insurance which implies that periods of residence, employment or other activity completed in one country are recognised during the acquisition, achievement and establishment of the level of rights in another Contracting State, where necessary for the exercise of the right, the training of insurance, the completion of the territory of one Contracting State, the other Contracting State will take into account, including the insurance internship completed in the territory of the Contracting States prior to the entry into force of the Agreement, ensuring the preservation of acquired rights. Under four, the payment, the transfer of residence allowances to another Contracting State is not limited to the territory in which those rights have been exercised and ensures that payment on the territory of the other Party, transfer to the country of origin, or residence is carried out without a reduction in the amount of giving, thus ensuring equalisation of territory. The Republic of Serbia is applying social giving agreements with 28 countries, most of which are EU members, who live and work for a large number of our citizens. The last few years have concluded agreements with Belgium, Slovakia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Romania. The agreement with Switzerland and France, which contain the new provisions, is expected to enter into force. Negotiations to conclude an agreement with the People's Republic of China, as well as with the Canadian province of Quebec, have entered into the final phase, and initiatives have been launched to conclude an agreement with Spain, Azerbaijan and the United States. In voting day, I propose to the MPs to vote these laws, because they all contribute to the improvement and the material position, but also to the rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40411	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40412	This is what happens when the congregation majority abuse Article 92. Rules of Procedure. To this day, I was convinced that you wanted to exhaust the MPs of the opposition, and you actually wanted to exhaust the ministers. Here you have made Minister Djordjevic read for an hour and 20 minutes to mention each of these proposals. If you put two more dots, you'd be dehydrated, you'd end up on an infusion. I felt sorry for you ministers, which is why I intervened so that it would not happen to future ministers, so that colleagues from the ruling coalition took care of, on the side of this proposal of mixed grandmothers and frogs, which could have been done by at least three groups that could have been discussed, if you had already kicked out of the business obligation to discuss one proposal as one item of the agenda. We simply wished for such a nice debate, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic remembers when she was president, we once had one point of the agenda, so the amendments to this proposal, and the debate with ministers, and the debate within the parliamentary groups, and now this really loses its meaning. Another reason why I came forward for the public above all, this agenda says it supported 150, and then something inscribed, 154 MPs, however, although 150, is quite fine, it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, but I think the great shame is the ruling majority that allowed this proposal to be signed and Meho Omerovic, the MP who was caught stealing at the Frankfurt airport, and you instead of pleading by that, even allowing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40413	As someone knows very well, and I am quite certain of that, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you also know that it is the legitimate right of every MP to propose a united debate. That is what the Messengers of the people say. In this case, I, as the chairman, could not do any harm to the Rules of Procedure because the minister is in line with Article 96(1). ... I feel for a man. Believe me, too. Article 96, point 1 of the first indent 1) - Proposer of the act, when it comes to the debate in principle, you know very well that there is no defined and limited time. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure in any way, but I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) I thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Whether the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40414	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first like to express my support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic for dedicated work on the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. Another success at the international plan and level, therefore, by withdrawing the recognition of so-called. The countries of Kosovo by Liberia. So, the fifth state in the past six months, along with Burundi, Suriname, Sao Tome and Príncipe and Guinea-Bissau. To those who resent us when it comes to our committed struggle and who say that we will give, sell and gamble with what belongs exclusively to our country, our citizens, I want to suggest that it will be very soon. Also, I would like to say that Minister Djordjevic, along with his team, has delegated a lot of bill proposals, a lot of issues concerning the most important aspects of social life in our country, of course with Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, therefore, demographics, labour rights, social rights, seasonal workers, the fight against the gray economy, support for families. All that is very important and essential for the progress of our country and for its modernisation and better life for its citizens. What I consider most important, when it comes to the development of the Republic of Serbia and what I want to highlight in the sea of these bad news, in the sea of false news that we were bombed daily, it is today the launch of the Friedrich Haven factory of the German factory that is being built in Panchev. A 160m-euro investment. A little over a few decades, no factory opened in Pancheva, and this one will employ more than 1,000 people. Also, something that has gone unattended in our media, in public and that I want to inform the public and our citizens, a great investment and a very important one for balanced regional development, is Kursumlija and the Good Field factory. An Israeli factory that will employ in the furniture industry of about 150 people, which in the case of Kurzumli means life, means the survival of those citizens in that part of Serbia. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to attract new investments, by improving the business environment in our country to provide a better life for Serbian citizens, and I will focus on a set of these laws that we are going to talk about today, on a law aimed at curbing the grey economy, which aims to improve the labour and social rights of our citizens, which is the engagement of seasonal workers. It has been a ban so far, in fact, in which more than 60,000 people, 60,000 Serbian citizens who have worked and who are working today seasonally with agricultural producers in the land, who have hardly ever had any labour rights, of course and social. In the 21st century, there are so many people who do not have any labour and social rights and that no one has remembered that they are solving to Minister Djordjevic, and I must point out that previous Minister Alexander Vulin has worked on this law, is simply a shame that I hope will improve the adoption of this law and its implementation, so that these people can live a man's life worth living in the 21st century. So, more than 60,000 people so far had no right to contribute to any kind of work, if the injuries had no right to work, no possibility of their rights as others who were registered in the companies they work in, in the institutions they work in, those rights that they draw from the contract they're engaged in. Whether these are temporary and occasional contracts, whether these contracts are indefinitely or others, in any case, it is very important that this law be brought to life. It is very important that many decision makers who are vital to implement this law in practice and on the ground and who will address three important issues were involved in this law. Number two, we believe that through the aspects of this law, when it is implemented and implemented, those who are employers will be happy to pay compensation, therefore, for contributions, for health and social insurance to those citizens who are employed. Thirdly, they will be drawn from the gray, or black zone, the state will charge taxes, so the state budget will be charged. Therefore, all three sides will be satisfied, and Serbia will, in accordance with the strategy to fight the gray economy, become and, of course, define the legal framework and legislation in line with the regulation of the most powerful, state-of-the-art countries that involve the continuous improvement of the market economy, with the natural improvement of continued social and labour rights. Serbia is certainly the economic champion and economic leader of the region, 850m euros in the first quarter of foreign direct investment. Serbia is according to Ernst & Young, so in the first 15 European countries by the number of investments that increased by 157% and which directly affected the employment of more than 20,000 people in the Republic of Serbia. I associate this fact with the struggle of the President of the Republic, with the struggle of the entire government, with the struggle of this Parliament and the creation of a clear and good strategy that will mean that there are a million more of us. That there are a million more of us by dealing with demographics, by improving the rights and opportunities of those families that have one, two, three or more children and that will, of course, influence us to be here more, to have more opportunities for our people, our students, our young people, to create our country's destiny here in the country and to stay here in Serbia through such an incentive policy. We have heard criticism from various people in Serbia, representatives of political factors, NGOs SPC and directly the Patriarch Irine, who only said that it was good to encourage demographic development, to encourage birth, that we have suffered a lot, but that we need to be in history and that we only have to work with one clear good policy, a clear strategic plan to make us more, because when we become more politically powerful, we will be more economically powerful, we will be socially stronger. If we're like this and if we have this demographic trend right now, so we won't have a labour problem, we'll have to import it. Not because our economy will be strong and economic, but because we won't have enough young people to work, that will raise this country, that will improve its capacities. Who will be creative, who will work in companies, who will develop a private initiative, who will lead the state institutions, who will run this state and the state administration in the right way, but just those who come, who should be given the best and equal chances for good education, for good employment, a good environment for the development of private initiative and private business. We still have to work to change what the President of the Republic, the mind set of our people, especially young people, would say. That the future of private business, that private entrepreneurs, that businessmen in this country should be those who are heroes of this country, who hire, who pay taxes. Anyone who pays taxes, pays and contributes, pays these 100 kilometers of highways that we make a year and we're capable of. We pay personal followers for whom we are proud of what Minister Djordjevic did when it comes to social and social responsibility. As a member of the Social Democratic People's Party, of course I advocate greater social rights, for greater trade union rights. But as a real man, I understand and, of course, I'm speaking publicly about that, that there are no greater social rights, there is no strong social policy, if there is no strong economy, if there is no economic growth of four, five, six percent that we now have, if there is no fiscal discipline, if there is no several thousand more private companies that are opening up than those that are shutting down every year. I think it's been a long time and we've lost a lot of time by having this relationship one employee, one pensioner, because it's unsustainable. We have to deal with demographics that is a long-term process, it will be a painful process and the problem is that we didn't start doing this 20 years ago, 15 years ago, 10 years ago, because the effects of what we are doing now can also tell us the Macedonian experience, because then Prime Minister Gureevski, another 10 years ago, launched in Macedonia the implementation of a clear strategy of demographic development in that country with good team, good experts. The effects of all this will come and be visible in 10, 20 and 30 years. But, of course, as a serious country, we should be so strategically thinking. And we don't need to look up to someone who's worse at us, but we need to look up to those who have led this policy in the best possible way. I would see myself in this case to a country like Israel and when it comes to demographics, and when it comes to the protection of national interests, and when it comes to the development of the economy, and when it comes to defence and security. Now, that's what Serbia should be in this region, modeled by Israel, economically strong with a strong and powerful army, with a clear strategic plan and goal where we should be and where we should be, where we should get in the next 30, 40 years. Also, I would like to commend this Law on the recruitment of seasonal workers because those who, in this case, employers, are going to be able to do so in a much easier and better way to report their employees, so by electronic means. This law goes in favour of what we call e-business and e-commerce and electronic reporting. So, in full capacity, the implementation of e-government, so without going to state institutions, by electronic means in one easy way, because we have to make business in Serbia easy. We have to hire in this country to make it an easy and simple process in all segments, so we can't make it difficult. We have to follow the guillotine rules until the end. I see this law, which has also supported the German GIZ, which has also supported NAED, which has supported all relevant business associations, but which have also supported relevant trade unions and representative ones, and those who are not, I see that it is going in this direction to improve legislation to combat the grey economy, to deal with the gray economy and to create a better business environment in our country. Also, I would like to appeal to Minister Djordjevic, who I know has great experience in the economy, who feels, who knows how the economy breathes, how the economy works, to advocate in the coming period that the more we release the economy of the impose, not only these parafiscal, but also fiscal burdens. I know there's a lot of work going on, but I think the key thing to further development, the impulse of private development, but also domestic business, we with foreign companies will have no problem with foreign investment. Our biggest problem is domestic investment. Our biggest problem is the domestic investors we need to encourage, so those who are already working and those who will decide to work in the next period, to make their business easier. And, ladies and gentlemen, if possible, to reduce the rate of contribution in some subsequent period, because this is now, you know, I know that you understand well and that you are advocated, if possible, to reduce those rates, so that we can give the business extra wings and wind in the back to develop, so that we can, of course, have additional employment. It's done a lot, big results. The unemployment rate is 13.6% in our country, with 26% in 2012. The strategic goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to keep it below 10%, see only the United States, can criticise, speak whatever it wants about human rights or anything, politics. You know what the result of the President of the United States is at the traffic light? Unemployment of 3.8%, million jobs in 2017. That's what the key result is and what is the key message to the American people. I'd like us to look up to that. New jobs, new companies, business environments, redundancy and daily work to bring as many good and strong companies to the Republic of Serbia and, of course, to continue with this trend of leadership in our country's economy. I would also like to say a few sentences about a very significant law, therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. I think the Agency for Peaceful Work Dispute Resolution is doing a great job, though, which is not much of a promotional agency. A lot of ordinary people don't even know what the achievements are and everything the Agency has done, and it's done a lot when it comes to collective rights of employees, when it comes to collective labour disputes. These changes and additions are of good concern, which we heard from the minister, solving the union's representative issues in companies and institutions. Of course, I would like to appeal to the minister that the issue of representativeness, both union organisations and business associations, should that be possible, is to be dismissed because what is the situation with a committee that is responsible for giving representativeness and assessing representativeness is a situation that defines a status quo, in which no one is satisfied. I would suggest, why not, if you can think about it, we have a really outdated system of evaluation and definition of representativeness, both union organisations and business associations. Counting accessions in the 21st century neither goes with what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, nor goes with this time. (President: Thank you, colleague. I'm sorry, five more seconds. Representativeship should be determined according to paid membership fees and then we will have the best picture of the true representativeness of our business associations and trade union organisations. Thank you and forgive me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40415	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40416	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, Madam Minister with Associates, as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, I will try to talk about three draft laws in the time of the parliamentary group. In fact, we have really different suggestions ahead of us. Some systematically, and for the first time, as we have heard, after decades regulate certain issues, such as the Bill on War Memorials, and others more comprehensively address the protection of vulnerable categories of the population, such as long-awaited changes and additions of the Financial Support Act to the family with children. I will also talk about the draft law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities. Generally, all these proposals, proposed measures, contribute to a better quality of life for citizens and what is significant, security of the exercise of rights in the fields of health, social protection, pension protection and poverty reduction. With the adoption of amendments and additions to the Strategy for Encouragement of Birth, the right to a parental supplement has indeed gained importance and has become a long-term population measure, and in that sense, of course, our parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, the Party for Democratic Action, the SVM MPs certainly support the amendments and addition of the proposed law on financial support for the family with children, which now specifically regulates the amounts, payments, the way in which the amount is harmonised, both the parental allowance and the flatulence for the purchase of child's equipment, as well as, as we have heard, the conditions for achieving this right. As is known, the current Act on Financial Support for the Family with Children, whose application is due to begin on July 1st, in Article 23. It's a good thing we changed that with these changes and supplements. As you recall, on behalf of our parliamentary group on 29 March this year, in the day for asking parliamentary questions, we had already heard statements that these amounts would change, and I wanted to specify who these changes would apply to. It is now clear in this proposal that when we talk about the firstborn child, that the parental supplement will be one time for all grandfathers who will be born from 1 July 2018, in the amount of 100,000 dinars, and that they will also receive 5,000 dinars as a pauser for the purchase of child equipment. It is clear from this proposal, what has been said, and it is now regulated, when we talk about another child, that for all children who were born after, in one member of this proposal it will be, from 1 July 2018 onwards, that this parental supplement will be paid over two years, in fact 24 months and that it will be 10,000 dinars a month. When we talk about a third and fourth child, after adopting these changes and additions, the parental allowance will be paid for 10 years, or 120 months, in equal monthly wars of 12,000 and 18,000 dinars, respectively. However, I can say, it is not unclear, there is a last member of this bill, but I would love to see what we read in the paper and what we were talking about then, on 29 March in this assembly, what happens to children born from 25 December to 30 June of this year, because that last article says that it will comply with this. I understand that they're already getting a parental allowance, and since they're the second, third or fourth child, they're getting in the monthly wars, after July 1st, they're still going to be referred to this new one, of course, it takes a six-month period, I said everything, the minister looks at me like that, but let's be clear because I think that last member is unclear and the parents are wondering, so they're not in doubt. So, they were born before December 25th last year, they're not related to this new one, but to the rest, if they're second, third or fourth, they're related. They'll probably be a little late for those payments, but let's be clear. Furthermore, what I think is a little bit talked about for now, and what we certainly welcome is what is good, this proposal regulates the conditions, so who is exercising the right to a parental supplement, and now, as special conditions, the regular vaccination of all children of the mother, of course, according to the regular vaccination plan, as well as the regular, regular visit to the mandatory preschool program and primary school. Of course, we welcome, if I may say, setting up more strict conditions somehow. Why do we consider regular vaccination to be significant, and why they are significant and acceptable, and to welcome these special conditions, precisely because we faced an incredible problem of morbil epidemic, little goddesses, today, almost four decades, 40 years, after the World Health Organization declared the morbils rooted out in 1979. In the future, I will try briefly to talk about the second proposal, the bill on war memorials. I must stress that, as it is probably known, the preparation of this proposal took a long time. I have to make out what may not be so visible, that the talks with the Alliance of the Duke Hungarians lasted, that the first round of these talks was still about 2015, that at that stage, then the draft, even otherwise called, was called - a draft of the mention of the markings. Then we know that in 2016 we had parliamentary elections, so this law will never be over and it will arrive. And, I would certainly like to thank you now and thank you for your openness, as Mr. Minister Djordjevic, so I must stress specifically the openness and understanding of the negotiations on our suggestions and Mr. Negovan Stankovic, the secretary of state in charge of this area. Namely, when we talk about this Bill on War Memoriales, in this proposal that is now in front of us, we are now not submitting amendments to this proposal, precisely because these amendments are already accepted at the preparatory stage. So two suggestions are proposed, SVM, one refers to the removal of war memorials, that the other is to specify cases where the construction or setting of a war memorial is not allowed. As we heard in the Bill's proposal, it was regulated that a solution to the regulation and removal of the war memorial was brought by the minister, according to previously obtained opinions of the Council on the care of the tradition of the Liberation Wars and the competent institution for the protection of cultural monuments, and that the solution could finally be conducted against it. It is our suggestion that in the event of a lawsuit for a solution to the removal of the war memorial, the execution of this solution is delayed until the court decides at the request of the prosecutor for a stay. In this regard, we believe that this delay allows for a measurement, indeed a measurement decision based on the facts set out in the public debate, which would prevent the occurrence of adverse consequences, the concrete removal of the war memorial, which may occur within five days, in which the court is obliged to decide on a request for a stay and execution. Our second suggestion, which was accepted, referred to Article 22. The bill, quoted by Mr. Minister, which concerns the question when construction or setting up a war memorial is not allowed. This is not allowed, among other things, to a person represented by fascist, Nazi, chauvinist, separatist ideas or ideology, or who was an associate of aggressors, occupiers, their allies or helpers. Our proposal, our suggestion, was that under those persons, those who have already been rehabilitated in accordance with the Rehabilitation Act, so those who are rehabilitated, should not be considered as being seen. It is also important for SVM to adopt this Bill on War Memorials, precisely because we develop awareness that the history of the majority and minority peoples is not parallel, but that these historys intersect, and in this sense the war memorials tell us what policy and memory our political community wants to react and what values, the pattern, we want to develop. On the other hand, I would like to stress that at the last joint session, the fourth joint session of the government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia was signed in Budapest on 9 February this year, so-called. The letter of intent, that this issue will be regulated, therefore, the adoption of this law is significant. Once again, I thank you for your cooperation and for accepting our suggestions, that we do not have to intervene in amendment now. Furthermore, I would also like to talk a little bit more about the third draft law that lies ahead of us, which is the proposal for a law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities. This proposal is extremely important because, indeed, according to the Office of Statistics, the Honorable Mr. Minister presented the data from 2016, and I will present the data from 2017, last year showing that a total of more than 570,000 people are informally employed. So, it's about unreported workers, and according to last year's statistics, more than 50% of them over 374 thousand are working in agriculture and compared to the previous year, the increase in informal employment is particularly prominent and particularly large, right in the agriculture sector and is almost 10%. So, an extremely large number of people work without being reported, they don't have any insurance. We are all aware that the grey economy and informal employment, that they are one of the leading challenges facing the Republic of Serbia and the particular problem is that informal employment in the agriculture sector is due to the seasonal nature of jobs in this area, due to complicated application, procedures and check-out of workers, so the application and check-out of seasonal workers, agriculture is still in the gray zone. SVM MPs certainly believe that the introduction of a legal framework for regulating this area is extremely important and we welcome the establishment of an electronic system, simplified employment of seasonal workers. We have heard from several speakers that this has been proposed, one of the government's action plans to implement a national programme to combat the gray economy and that is of particular importance. Unfortunately, these bill proposals are all by emergency procedure, but I would like to point out that regardless of what they arrived on June 15th this year, in preparation for this particular proposal, it lasted longer and there was a public debate that I would really welcome. All relevant actors had the opportunity to plead, including employers themselves. A respected colleague before me had already talked about it, and I would like to point out that since a fellow member of the Arpad Fremond parliamentary group took part in the preparation of this proposal that there were indeed study visits both to Croatia and Hungary and to parallel practice. So, the best solutions were sought from the Croatian and Hungarian models and indeed acceptable to us, and the best solutions were taken over. So this bill should improve the position of seasonal workers. Positively, we see additional protection of the rights of seasonal workers, that they will have the right to compensation for work, for every hour of work, that they will have, or that they are provided with safety and health at work, health insurance in case of work injury, occupational illness as well as pension and disability insurance rights and so on. What we also find extremely important is that for the first time it is envisaged that the employer may also be a natural person, member or institution of the family agricultural land, which deals with agricultural production, which means that for the first time it is possible for the natural persons involved in agricultural production to be employed by seasonal workers. Mr. Minister, I would like to take advantage of your presence and the presence of your associates that, when we are talking about agriculture and the subject of your ministry as well, I will open up a major problem, a major issue, payment of contributions to mandatory social security for farmers. Unfortunately, the current situation is such that farmers who have half, two and a half, five, 10, 100 or even more hectares pay the same amount, which we believe is in no way fair and logical, to be cut with sound logic. We've talked about this issue several times in this distinguished House. We believe that this problem should be solved by contributing to the mandatory social insurance of farmers should be paid in accordance with the size of their farmland on the one hand and on the other hand in accordance with the amount of income they generate from agricultural production. Of course, an inter-resor working group dealing with this issue has been formed, together with the subject of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and your ministry. I really urge this question to be resolved as soon as possible, because we think that if it is more logically placed and fairer, of course, and the payment of these contributions will certainly be more regular. Finally, to sum up, we welcome the amendments and additions, that is, all the proposals ahead of us and in the voting day, the SVM MPs will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40417	Thank you, colleague Kovac. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40418	In order to resolve and clarify what a parental supplement looks like and the right to a parental supplement, at this point in the Republic of Serbia, averages 61,500 children each month, and that is 29,000 as a first, 22,500 as a second, 8,000 as a third and 2,000 as a fourth. The bill provides for a height, method of harmonisation and payment of the parental allowance and a bedrock for the purchase of equipment for children. Since 1 July 2018, the parental allowance will be paid as follows. For the first child, once 100,000 dinars, instead of the current 39,898,24, for the second child totalling 240,000 dinars in 24 equal monthly wars, each 10,000 dinars. Now 156,000,17 dinars or war is one of 6,500 dinars. For a third child totalling 1,440,000 dinars, in 120 equal wars, at 12,000 dinars. Now there are 280,818 dinars, and the war is 11,700 dinars. For a fourth child, the total amount of 2.160,000 dinars in 120 equal monthly wars or 18,000 per month, and now 374,420 and the war is 15,600 dinars, noting that the war for the third and fourth children is two years and 24, respectively. That's the fundamental difference. It is paid together with a single amount of parental allowance for the first child, i.e. the first payment of a parental allowance for the second, third and fourth children and is 5,000 dinars. The right to a parental allowance, this is what you asked, for children born on the date of entry into force of the Law on the financial support of families with children, which is 25 December 2017 and later, concluded on 30 June 2018, which is carried out in accordance with the regulations which were in force on the day of birth and are paid in equal months of war, is the second, third and fourth children, will be brought into line with the official duty of 1 July 2018 with the number of wars and monthly amounts of parental allowance established by this law, and the payment will be made, the correction within six months of the date of application of this law. Also, as regards the conditions for the exercise of parental allowance rights, changes related to the property price have been made, so that paying the property tax, on a tax base like so far 30 million and paying the annual income tax, are no longer a condition for the exercise of this right, but all mothers have the right to receive this incentive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40419	I thank Minister Djordjevic. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40420	Thank you. Dear Minister Djukic Dejanovic, the respected Minister Djordjevic with his associates, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, is ahead of us to discuss several draft laws and MP JS in the voting day will support all the draft laws in this united debate. My presentation at the outset will focus on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for the family with children. So, it seems to me, the Crucial Law, but also to say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will certainly support this law, but the minister must say that we can talk about Serbia taking big steps forward in many segments, whether it is GDP, GDP increase, reduction of the unemployment rate, investors bringing in wages and pensions, but if we don't have a successful population policy, everything is free, we don't have the future of this country. What I want to tell you is that the state of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic and your ministry that you are leading recognized the importance of population policy and that is what makes us happy for the next period. Everything we do practically, we do to have more children in Serbia and to stop the outflow of young people abroad. Minister, I'm here to say that we haven't implemented those measures and we haven't recognized all that. In 2050. Serbia would have a million and a half inhabitants less. Serbia is according to statistics that you know well the sixth oldest nation in Europe. If that's what migrants add, then the data is really worrying. According to the data, any moment now, i.e. Every day we lose 107 people. We've been losing our population for 67 years, and for the past 27 years, we've had a negative natural growth. Compared to that, here I am going to give that information once again that in 1950 we had just under 164,000 babies born. In 2017, that number was 100,000 lower, but the truth works, in 2017 200 babies were born more than in 2016, in which we made the most negative score, that the least baby was born since 1900, since this statistics and leads, if I am not mistaken. As for mothers, Serbia has a percentage of 1.44% for mothers and we still need at least 0.8% for simple reproduction. So the statistics at this point look like this – 51% of mothers have one child, 42% of mothers have two, and only 7% of mothers have three children. Demographic laws are clear, you know that, in order to have a simple reproduction, it takes 11% of mothers to have 1 child, 44% of mothers two and 45% of mothers three children. When more migrants are added to that, i.e. We lose 15,000 people every year, then the data is at least worrying. Even great cities like Leskovci, Kings, Krushevac have, to say, a negative migrant balance. Only 40 municipalities in Serbia have a positive migrant balance, which means more residents are moving in than they are moving in. Minister, for a successful population policy, it seems to me that I need the synergy of the state, the synergy of all local self-government, but it seems to me to all of us. Jagodina, you know this well, but I really must mention, at the head of Dragan Markovic Palm is an example of good practice in local self-government. Jagodina recognized the fight against this white plague 14 years ago and in continuity is done directly and indirectly. Directly in a series of measures for the last 14 years, helping every child born, helping families with multiple children, helping unemployed pregnant women and maternity mothers. But also, indirect measures are important. So, every year, students of the fourth, eighth grade, high school students, i.e. The perfect seniors, to the sea. They're taking students to Vienna. The students and passengers have free transportation. Parents with more than one child are employed. In the end, the situation is that on the last list we have 400 residents more in Jagodina and many more in primary schools. Not entering the law itself, I just want to say, the minister has mentioned it, but I consider this law the most important in this debate and the most important in all, because it represents a total social concern for children, and it is our responsibility to improve the conditions for children to be more satisfying and better future for them, and to help truly materially endangered families, to give them incentives and support to achieve, if they want, the desired number of children. And at the very end, about this law, I'm just going to say, you've said it several times, but, look, I'm going to point out once again, that in demographics, the unit of measurement is 10 years. I, Minister, really hope that all these things you do and what the state of Serbia is doing, in 10 years in this area we will have a really much, much brighter future and I will tell you that in the day of voting, United Serbia will fully support this bill. As for the second bill of law, on war memorials, I would like to say that the regulations governing this law have been passed 40 years ago. Practically, the aim of this law is to define the competences and strengthen the responsibilities of units of local self-government and other institutions or individuals as well as to create the necessary conditions for the protection of cultural heritage related to all wartimes. The biggest newspaper in this law is the responsibility of the ministry in charge of fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars and of giving consent to the rise of a new war memorial. Such an orderly system will certainly bring about the improvement, respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, but, on the other hand, as an important segment of Serbia's cultural heritage will become part of Serbia's attractive and tourist offer. As regards the third law of this united debate, the Law on Simplified Labour in Seasonal Jobs in Certain Workers' Works, this law should improve the position of seasonal workers and also simplify the reporting of workers through an electronic platform. The law defines jobs for seasonal workers - in the sector of agriculture, forestry, fisheries. Also, the law provides for maximum time for hiring a seasonal worker during the calendar year up to 180 days. Also, at that time, the worker will also be accounted for by pension-inhabited insurance or health insurance in the event of any injury or occupational illness. Cash compensation for seasonal workers shall be charged and paid at the working hour and at least at the minimum labour price. In addition, this bill provides that during the course of the seasonal work, the worker is not deleted from the records, nor is he suspended from paying the national Employment Service’s cash compensations during temporary unemployment. Minister, I'd still like to ask you a question here. There are a large number of nursing households in Serbia, especially Shumadi and this part here. These rural households practically all of what they do on earth, they have a hectare, two of what they do on their own land for their own purposes. And yet to be able to process that country, they have to use seasonal workers because they are unable to do it on their own. We also have a large number of households with only one hectare of land, using these products for themselves, and I am interested in whether these households are obliged to report and their seasonal workers when they take them for their own needs? The next law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment of Workers Act. When it comes to this law, its adoption simplifies the process of issuing a work permit for employment, and in order to further develop a more favourable business environment and bring in foreign investors. Otherwise, Minister, just to say that this law knows seven types of work permits, as far as the state of Serbia and the practice so far have shown that the largest number of work permits issued are working permits for employment. When it comes to the next draft law, amending and supplementing the Law on Conditions for sending temporary staff to work abroad and protecting them, Minister, when it comes to this law, some official statistics say that around 7,000 people are going to work abroad annually. These are official estimates, but, when we consider agencies, when we consider intermediaries, that number is significantly higher. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to check the agency through which employees go abroad for employment, and on the other hand, through those agencies to work contracts, not directly with the factory or with some employers abroad. When it comes to the law itself, he tries best to solve this area, to make the law more transparent and to prevent the abuses that, you will agree, in the previous period was indeed little and too much. The admission to the Central Register allows easier access to data on workers and how much their rights are respected when it comes to insurance. The law also states that a worker should not be sent abroad for less than three months, a mandatory quota of 20% of employees, not to be due, thus avoiding abuses and renting workers through agencies, where practically the agency does not have any employees and rents from some other workers. When it comes to two draft laws, amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and families of fallen fighters and amendments to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, Minister, you've talked a lot about this. Not to repeat myself, to talk about the law itself, but I will tell you one thing: that we are all obliged to respect the people who fought for this country, who, in the end, gave their lives for this country. I am also sure that the goal of all of us here is to improve people's living conditions, not only for fighters, but also for military disabled people and families of fallen fighters. When it comes to the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, it should be said that earlier long-term work disputes were expensive for both the economy and the state budget. The dispute immediately involved the minister, and the government, and the Prime Minister, but when there is an Agency, everything it decides has a weight in the court. Therefore, the work of the Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes should become more transparent, in order for employers to understand that its solutions have the same weight as the court, and that disputes last shorter and less cost the economy. At the very end, Minister, there are four agreements ahead of us. First, an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on social security adopted in Moscow in December 2017. This agreement regulates the right to an age, temporary age, disability and family pension. Also, right in the event of work injuries and professional illnesses and the right to compensation for funeral expenses. The second agreement is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia. The law itself says that it regulates the terms, scope of employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia, conditions and procedures for issuing permits that enables the employment of our people there, but also the right and obligations of Slovenian entrepreneurs who employ our people in Slovenia. The next agreement was signed in Thessaloniki in 2017. It was signed between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece, of course, on social security. I must say, this agreement regulates the area of pension and disability insurance. At the very end, we also have before us a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Australia. On a reciprocal basis between the two countries, it is regulated to carry out the paid work of family members, official representatives of the two states. At the very end, Minister, I think all these laws are a step forward and the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the draft laws of this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40421	Thank you, colleague Kosanic. Since the word "proposer" is wanted, I'm going to have to delete the list in order to give you my word. The word has been made by Professor Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40422	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it makes me truly pleased to be involved in the work today when such significant points and above all certain that I have focused my own attention from today and here today on the amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family. I thank the representatives of all three parliamentary groups that took part at the beginning of the debate until this moment for indeed focusing their own and their energy and attention. Mr. Kosanić, you have presented extremely significant data concerning the demographic profile of life in Serbia and we must remember that the president of the country, then Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic has actually determined at the moment when there are exposés here in this same space how important it is that one of our basic national tasks be measures concerning population policy and demographics. I will not, of course, repeat everything you have stated from the law as positive, but I would draw the attention of the general public and of you MPs to the fact that only easing the economic price of raising especially, the third, the fourth, and, of course, the other child is just one of the measures. We would watch roughly if we analyze the laws and these additions and changes, we could say that the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself by two levels of activity, national and local. This national law is actually contained in the law, and, of course, the entire government, with the huge involvement of Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister Loncar, all other ministers, the Ministry of Finance and all actors involved, estimated that this national priority must be shown in very practical actions. But if that economic incentive were the only measure then a very similar demographic situation would not have countries that have an extraordinary standard. So many Western European countries, Scandinavian countries have very similar problems when it comes to the perspective of population and demographic parameters. It is therefore extremely important that a whole set of measures should be applied and each unit of local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined that after public advertising for grants to local self-government units this year more than three times the amount of money it was in last year. You know that last year was 130 million, and there was a comment here that was small. We had a pilot project last year that justified its existence. Those units of local self-government where management estimated that, along with the NGO sector, representatives of significant institutions should work and other measures have taken a step forward. The rest were more debated and we raised the visibility of the topic. At this moment, the Commission that has received applications has the opportunity to see that some units of local self-government, cities and municipalities assess that they can offer joint applications that will be stimulating for the most intelligent policy, others have decided to apply themselves. What are all these measures for which it is applied and what can be done at the level of the restaurant, and indeed an outstanding example of the unit of local self-government is Jagodina, the city of Jagodina and indeed your fellow MP Mr Dragan Marković Palma with its measures - the coordination of labour and parenting, the reduction of psychological cost of parenting, the care of those couples who have a problem of sterility, the incomparably more knowledge in the domain of population policy, where unfortunately we stand easily poor and reproductive health, the involvement of public health institutions, and all of this is entrusted to local self-government units. The application of this law will have its full spirit the moment the units of local self-government begin to stick to the text that we today, or, that is, you decide here today with our engagement. Thank you very much for your support and I really think that this will be one of the laws and a complete set of laws, that in this way it will stimulate all MPs of this high house that perhaps for the first time in a long time unanimously and without those who are against us to plead on the legal solutions that are extraordinary, not only for Serbia's better demographic future, but also for solving other very sensitive issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40423	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40424	I'll try to answer two questions for which you asked me a question. First of all, as far as farmers and these landowners are concerned, unfortunately, all those who work and earn must pay taxes. It is a legal obligation for all those who make and in some ways earn money. The good news in the whole story, and you know, we've talked about it, the Ministry has launched a project to make social maps, that is, in the second half of the year and the social card law, and there's the idea of identifying exactly that category of farmers, households that can't process the land they own, that according to the current system are someone who has and who doesn't need the state to give. We have some cases where people who don't belong to the fact that the state gives certain financial resources, some kind of social assistance. We want a fair state when it comes to social aid and we want to relieve these people. I believe that by adopting this law, we will also solve the problem that they receive social assistance through automation, that the state can literally know who social aid belongs to, that it can categorize it, that without additional administration, difficulties, waiting orders, proofs simply pays social aid, but also to those to whom it does not belong, to deny it and to be by some automation. I think that when we talk about it, we will see that we have recognized that category of our citizens and that we are solving them and not just them, but everyone else who in some way now is either getting less or not in the welfare system at all. When it comes to fighters, I agree with you, a great deal of attention should be paid to them in the future. They then, when it was most necessary for our country, came out on the first line, gave a lot, sacrificed a lot of things, and I think the least we can at this point and as much as we give them, and as much as it is, it can't make up for everything they've given and everything they've lost. We need to show one seriousness and somehow take care of them so they can feel it on their side. For this reason, a series of meetings are held at the Ministry with these alliances and associations, just so they see that we do not run away from them, that what we get from the state wants to distribute in a transparent way, that they have insight into how we do and what we do and that we invite them to do concrete projects that are the most helpful to this group of people. In that sense, and after meeting with the president, one roof law was initiated for them. Now there are many, many laws still in force from the federal state. We don't have roof law. It is an idea to make the law. The starting point of making that law is that no law will ever be less. We'll only see where and in what way is it somewhere in the past, the last time in 2009, some of their rights are even reduced, how we can give them back those rights, because everything they explain, it's all in their favor that someone for some reason has abolished it and that we should actually grant them those rights. We'll let go. I certainly call upon everyone when there is a public debate to participate in this and to bring together the best possible law for them. What is foreseen in the future, very quickly, the ministry has redistributed the funds to open up additional competitions and additional invitations to these associations to apply for new projects by the end of the year already in July. I believe that the success of the realisation that they now have in terms of 100% will be sufficient ground to make every year part of the resources that the state has allocated for them bigger and bigger. So I think, again, that we do a little bit, always a little bit as much as they deserve, but it's important that there's a concern, that there's a conversation and that they know that there's another side that hasn't forgotten them. I think it's the best message for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40425	I thank Minister Djordjevic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please sign up for a word. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go, colleague Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40427	Thank you. Of these 13 laws, as far as we have on the agenda today, the public's greatest attention, I'm sure, will attract this law on providing financial support to the family with children and I would refer exclusively to it, because in a united debate there are 13 laws, and you have only 20 minutes, you can't say anything more than one law quality. In this sense, I have some misunderstandings and I have questions about this bill, because he says in his explanation, and that is clear without it, that its primary goal is to encourage birth, because we as a state and society really have this huge problem of decline in birth and we are not the only, the whole of Europe suffers from it, some countries more, some less, and that is the problem that produces changes in conditions. Times have changed, therefore, and people change and their life priorities and needs change, and now we need to find an effective solution to sort out this problem somehow, to encourage citizens to be parents. But that's not so hard, most people naturally need to be realized as a parent. What's the problem, though, is that you and one of the children come true as a parent and you have met your personal need. The state, however, also has a problem with the fall of birth if parents only stay on one child and all the measures we bring must go to encourage parents to give birth to more than one child. As far as I understood this strategy, which was adopted in March by experts and, I would say, solidly do our basic problem, the biggest problem is to motivate parents with one child to decide on another child. The strategy has a list of different measures, which are even timed over the next two years, a number of measures are said to start with them in 2018, for some in 2019, for some 2020. What confuses me is that they change this legislation, what we're talking about now, financial support for families with children, is intended to come only in 2020, as a cream on cake with some of the other measures that need to be done before or at least start. Even the strategy itself says that the experiences of other countries that have tried to encourage birth only by offering financial assistance, such as now the idea, had no results, perhaps a little short-term, but in the longer term, this is a problem that cannot be solved overnight, you cannot have it as a one-time measure, it must be at the top of other measures that are systematic. So this was scheduled for 2020. What concerns the National Assembly and amendments to the legislation, which is contained in this Strategy, is that in 2018 it is primarily necessary to amend labour legislation. I don't understand why this, which, by the way, should only be as the last measure, comes to us first, and that what is planned to come first, is not in front of the MPs. I'll remind you that there are big problems, when it comes to the rights of pregnant women and maternity women, right in the framework of labour legislation. We now have a situation where the law generally does not recognise the rights of pregnant women and maternity women working on certain contracts, on temporary and occasional jobs, on supplementary work, on the copyright contract, which are on some professional trainings that have been paid. So when a woman who works on contracts stays in a different state, she has no right to have any kind of pregnancy or maternity benefits. On the other hand, this law that is before us today, about the financial support of families with children, when it comes to parenting, beware of miracles, these women recognize. When it comes to calculating whether someone has or is not entitled to a parental allowance, he is accounted for by the incomes of transactions under a temporary and occasional contract. So, for women who work under contract, this is double-naked, double-probleming. I ask you to change immediately what the Strategy says we need to amend on working legislation. The second thing, the Strategy foresees that, once we are changing the working legislation, we should also foresee the possibility that women who are on maternity leave after the maternity leave has expired, if they so wish, have the opportunity to extend maternity leave with a reduced amount of compensation, but have that option at all. And what is most important to me, and I think the Strategy also clearly says that we should work well on that, which is the introduction of paid leave for fathers, i.e. quotas for fathers who would be mandatory, intolerable, and who fathers could use whenever they wanted. Why the mandatory and non-sustainable? We are one patriarchal society where all jobs are thought to be related to family, children, child rearing, house keeping, care for elderly and sick parents of women. Then we wonder why women won't give birth. There's a lot of pressure on women. We have to work to animated the fathers, to get more involved in activities that are family-type. In that sense, they are an example of Scandinavian countries, and they should be an example for us. Denmark, Norway, Sweden. These are three of the four countries of Europe that have managed to reverse the trend of low birth in these Scandinavian countries, thanks to their natural mentality and cultural nature, it is most normal for a father to participate in raising children and relieve the pressure a woman feels when it comes to home affairs and obligations. The fourth country is France. They turned the trend around because they realized that women who work sooner would decide on a second and a third pregnancy if they knew that the child would be able to be sent to kindergarten. We're expected to have a woman who gives birth to 10 minors raising that child. Here, and this law recognizes it, because somewhere 10 will pay off in some wars some help to these families. Women want to go back to work. We don't have enough kindergartens, we don't have enough room in preschools, we don't have enough room for women who work without talking about women who are unemployed and who don't have time to look for a job because they have to look after a child. So we need to find a way to get rid of women and this strategy recognizes it. It measures in this sense and suggests and we need to find a way to involve a little more fathers in family activities. As a society, we're not going back to the Middle Ages. Here is the fact that in this National Assembly there must be 30% of women, and I hope that soon we will get to the fact that there must be 50% of them because it is only equal. Thus, as a society, we have traveled as if we want women who are professionally accomplished, because we recognize that they can make a great contribution to society. In order for women both professionally and motherly to come true, we have to help them. You can't ask women to sacrifice themselves for the state. The state has a problem, the state has to find a way to encourage women. Of course your father's. As for fathers and changing that patriarchal relationship, I have a proposal to start at the maternity ward. Until a few years ago, the fathers were forbidden to attend the birth. In some maternity homes we had an option that they could pay like it was a movie, God forgive me. We have to go to maternity homes already to change this father-to-family relationship and obligations and build a systematic one attitude that they should be a support and equal partner in these family activities and jobs, not just someone who cares only about meeting the financial needs of the family. It's the only way to reduce the pressure that women feel, and that's the psychological price some women don't want to pay. The state has to help them make that price cheaper. Of course, there's an economic price we have a problem with. This legislative proposal declares that it aims to resolve or mitigate exactly that. I think we have many other opportunities, to reduce the financial pressures that all parents feel on a more systematic and long-term basis and on a sustainable basis. Let's start with school, free textbooks for all the kids at school. It's long-term for you, if we go, big help to families with children, year after year. Parenthood is the most expensive during child training. A huge problem, and this strategy recognizes, is the unsatisfactory housing needs of young couples. This strategy suggests that the state is engaged in the construction of apartments that would be cheaply leased to young married couples who would choose a second and a third child next to one. That would be, I mean, the biggest incentive for young couples to talk about economic aid. The strategy itself contains an incredible fact that a third of families with children in Serbia are separating 40% of family incomes for living expenses. So, for rent or for credit, for devil's info, electricity, heating. At the same time, less than 10% of family income is allocated to family incomes in EU countries to meet the same costs. That's a lot of pressure, and that's where it's supposed to start. The strategy also provides for vouchers. Before these apartments are built, since it is still a process that lasts, vouchers for young couples who might be able to rent an apartment. We have a situation that three, four generations, seven, eight people live in two rooms, because it's the only way to settle all costs. Out of two salaries of 20,000 dinars, you can't pay rent and bills for info, electricity, heating, and you can have more to eat. People survive, by having three, four generations each, and then we have two pensions and two salaries, so the seven of us somehow manage to pay off our living expenses and plus to eat that whole month. But I ask you, where will the young couple have the first child, not the second and third, if they live in such a community? This measure, and if it were to be a priority, I am deeply convinced, as collateral well-being, would also have a reduction in the number of divorces, as well as a reduction in domestic violence. So I don't understand why, of all these smart things that can be found in the strategy and which should be one of our long-term definition and which clearly says that this, this, this, and this, solves the problem of inadequate places in kindergartens, then, solves unsatisfactory housing needs, the working legislation changes, and only in the end is it defined for some pure cash financial aid that can be, when it's independent cannot produce a sustainable long-term result, but with these other measures, it gives. So it's not clear to me why we started from the tail first, instead of going from the head, to make a good foundation, so we end up with that cream on the cake. This measure, I believe, will give some results, but I am confident that they will be ad hoc and short-term. Some children will be born, some couples will be taken, parents may be easier to get to their tenth year of life, and then they will be squirming again in some financial problems precisely in that age from the fourth to eighth grade of primary school when they have to pay for lunch at school, and textbooks, and excursions, and excursions, and accessories, and notebooks, and extracurricular activities. There will be no movement, and those children will welcome the age, if there are no other measures, and if we don't change the economic policy of a cheap legal force, if they pay to stay at 20,000, those same parents who will now take this money, when their children are 18 years old will tell them – get the kids out of here. Well, then those kids are gonna have new kids somewhere abroad. So it's a complex problem. Even now, we have a big problem with young couples leaving the country and having children elsewhere at the most productive age. And it's affecting the birth rate. So, I'm sorry to have to say, my impression is that this law is before us today, not so much because we have a public interest and a struggle to improve the birth rate in mind, which is supposed to be, but that in the root of this lies primarily a party interest, because this law as it is can only be assessed as cheaply populist unless all these other measures that are prescribed in the strategy go with it. When can we expect these other measures? I would ask you to tell the citizens of Serbia when everything else, especially with regard to meeting the housing needs of young couples, is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40428	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word has professor Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, minister. Here you go, Professor Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40429	Dear MEPs Stamenković, I would like to thank you, of course, for your participation in the debate and for the partially detailed information relating to the strategy. This segment of the strategy you are talking about is the same from 2008 until today, but unfortunately it was the topic of detailed development and development of the action plan only last year and it came into force only this year. As part of this strategy, it is envisaged that the mitigation of the economic cost of parenting develops gradually by 2020, which did not mean that, taking into account macroeconomic stability and the fact that we live financially realistically, we did not stand anywhere in the strategy, nor did it say that we are prohibited to apply as many measures and strategies as possible, including the one that is special, nor the task of number one in the framework of the strategy to mitigate the economic price of parenting. It will not enter into force anything in 2020. It will enter into force on the day on which, or the next day from the moment the text of the law you adopt is published in the Official Messenger. And it's very good, a huge number of women are very excited about the facts, and not just women, couples, which will allow these financial means to improve the standard of the third and fourth but born on December 25th. I fully understand your interest in labour legislation, and I would like to inform you, both you and the general public, that we have done one research on 128 thousand employees. The goal of these financial measures is not to keep the mother from working, so she can have a third, fourth child 30 grand a month. No, the goal is to make the standard of a third and fourth child at least the first for those parents who are motivated and who have defined themselves to have a third and fourth child. So, when we did that research, we actually came up with a frantic data. The initial idea was to change the norms, laws in the domain of labour legislation. However, neither employees nor employers knew much about the positive legal solutions we already had. In fact, by the age of three, a parent can choose a shift where he works until the third year of his child, which is rarely used. Possible work from home, possible choice of shift in which someone will work, possible work so-called work. "part-time" engagement, four-hour working hours. When we asked the employees of the parents in this great research, and we did four thousand surveys of the employees of the parents and 330 employers participated, and when we asked them if they knew about these legal solutions, we came to the conclusion that there was actually insufficient information from the employees, and I am also taking this opportunity to say that we have to go with the use of already positive legal acts in relation to harmonising work and parenting. You're wondering why we've defined ourselves to go to the stimulation of the second, third and fourth children. Well, you yourself said the reason, the satisfaction of the parental drive, is one of the strongest natural needs of any man. The first child is just born because a person wants to be a parent. Stimulation for another child has increased from six thousand to 10,000 a month until the second year of life. It's not some money, it's still funds that have been increased by almost 50%. Why did we go to the third and fourth kids with more stimulation? Because demographers also say that to be renewed and not have us every day by 107 less, every woman in a fertilized period needs to have 11% of them with one child, that two children have 44%, three 45%. Unfortunately, 10% of couples have sterility problems. What is the situation in Serbia? Fifty-two percent of women have given birth to one child, 40% and over 40% of two children, so that's where we approach the desired percentage. The third child is unfortunately only 6.7%. We've noticed that, and the demographics agree with that, that someone has to have a third child first. By stimulating a third child, you're actually a little stimulating women who already have a second child, to think about a third, and by stimulating another who is a little smaller, we go to that extent. I hope that over the next 10 years, the economic situation and the complete situation in Serbia will be such that the real mitigation of the economic cost of parenting will not be as significant as it is now. I fully agree with you that this is not the only measure and, therefore, on the plan of psychological downsizing of parenting through advisory work, on the plan of harmonising labour and parenting, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has already taken its first steps this year, although I say the action plan has only started a month ago to apply. The decision has been made to establish so-called ‘public undertakings’ among the economic financial entities and entities. Friends of the family. So, those companies, those companies, those employers who exhibit socially responsible behavior will be best friends and will receive certain rewards. This is the first step towards certification of companies that will stimulate their employees, who are also parents, because they become slowly conscious and employers, and we have to work with them, that the best worker is actually the one who earns income both for himself and for his family, that is, for his child. So no one thought to go with this measure alone. We think that a set of economic measures must go parallel to other measures, some of them from the domain of health care. The regulation will be completed these days, related to the fact that all those who have become parents after a biomedically assisted fertilisation and have a child in the process, can, on the exact same conditions, go to the goal of becoming parents and the second time becoming parents, i.e. at the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, have three attempts for mothers who are up to 42 years old. So it's not just about one measure, and the huge financial resources, huge for the sake of the budget of Serbia that's not too big, go to local self-government units and are directed exclusively at local policy programmes. It's mostly kindergartens, it's the education of those who need to raise children, it's working with future parents and the complex of all these measures, which experts wrote remarkablely in 2008 and who were almost in the same composition doing the same programme, or the same strategy, for the first time experiencing an action programme with the deadlines, and all we can do before I would say that it's minus, I would say that it's actually quite fine. As for textbooks, living space, vouchers, everything you've been talking about, those are actually the measures we're working on. So, the strategy was only completed in March of this year and here are the first very concrete steps. All other steps will be done in the next period. If we had done part of what we did through the Law on Financial Support for the Family and Working With Local Self-Government from 2008 to 2018, we could now be more in place to start and do a lot more. I'd ask you not to take this as a controversy, but as an explanation of what you've been talking about. I thank you for your participation in the debate and the questions you asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40430	Thank you, Professor. Right to replica, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40431	Thank you. Mostly I like to be in the dark, but I have to replicate my previous colleague, first of all for the protection of underage children. In her presentation, she repeatedly repeated that mothers raise children. In accordance with family law, parents – mother, father, mother in particular, father in particular, or parents together, guard, cherish, raise and raise children. The term "creation" is a term that is inappropriate for children, that is the first thing. Another thing I'd also like to point out, it's asking questions, we're on the agenda of the Financial Support Act with the children. One of the instruments of population policy is just envisioned by the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, which is a parental addition. Of course, this law is planned to enter into force on 1 July 2018. But the question has been asked – why is he the first one now? I'll answer that. Because Serbia is a politically and economically stable country, because almost every day in Serbia, factories are opened and it gives people the opportunity to work, because this country is responsible, and this is one of the constitutional obligations and responsibilities of the state, to help families in a socially responsible way, especially families with more children. Therefore, these are the reasons why this law comes first.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40432	Thank you very much. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40433	Thank you. To thank Minister Djukic Dejanovic for his constructive exchange of views. I just want to add one thing that I find very important. It's this maternity situation. Ten years ago, you might remember that, I accidentally raised a riot over the situation in our maternity home, just writing a blog. I wrote about how I passed through the maternity ward and it was a very traumatic experience, and that's what a lot of women reacted to and sent their stories, over 700 stories came and I published them all on one website. Every third story, you know how it ends? "I used to want three children, but after this experience, I don't think of it anymore. “ This strategy mentions it as a problem in some description, but it does not follow. I ask you to do something to make the birth of our health care institutions a pleasant experience that remains in a good memory and where the desire for a second, third and fourth child will come from. If it remains as one traumatic experience, then you will find it difficult to persuade parents, both parents. Here we have a problem with both bribes and corruption, which is specific in maternity homes. It is rare for you to ask for what, but worship is expected and responsibility is transferred to parents with a story – and what do you worship? My question is doctors, and what do you receive? I'm asking you to campaign among the doctors and the parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40434	Thank you. (Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić: Replica. ) Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, I have no basis for giving you a replica. You're not mentioned, it's not a party, it's not a party leader. You will now have a chance as authorized. Thank you for understanding. The word is Dr. Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40435	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, today we are talking about the set, I would say, socially-oriented laws in one of the hot political situations. If it is necessary to assess this political moment and why the Serbian Parliament is at this political moment considering a set of social laws, it is that at this crisis political moment with some social demagogy, small or large social giving, the meeting of the most vulnerable groups of people in Serbia is also buying social and political peace. My colleagues have already spoken enough, haven't been able to because we don't have that much time, each of the authorized has 20 minutes, to read the explanation, as the minister reads. They talked about the various aspects of these laws. I'm going to start my own exposure the way the bill is in order here. He's the first one on war memorials. I hope you'll agree that we live in a community we call a state and hope it functions as a state. We know that the state partnership is not only between us who are alive, but also between those who are dead, who are our ancestors, and children who are born or will be born, therefore, between future generations. That's why it's really important that we have this law that guarantees that war memorials will be protected. Here, in the light of the law, a particular number is mentioned. In 40 countries around the world where the bones of our ancestors are scattered, there are about 505 of them, and in our country there are between four and six thousand. I think it's extremely important that we remember the names of these people. Many of them are nameless, but it would take much more attention and due respect to point to at least those war memorials and memorials of warriors, whether they were from the First Serbian uprising, Balkan wars, World War I, World War II, unfortunately, recent conflicts. We need to respect them and we need these people to mention their name and last name. Since a decision to cultivate the tradition of liberation wars will be formed here, I hope that more attention will be paid not only to men warriors, so to speak, to those who have given their lives for the freedom of our country and us all, but also to women. If some monument cannot be monumental to raise Milunki Savik, a hero from the First Balkan or First World War, or Nadezhdi Petrovic, then let it be some collective memorial-marking to all those women who fought side by side for freedom, who were nurses, for example. I want to mention the name of a woman named Danka Milosavljevic, who is the last female national hero, the woman of Partizan, who is the last woman who is a folk hero, who recently passed away. I think it's very important to mention women. I'm in favour of not forgetting women in the future, because women, after all, are the majority population. So, with all due respect to men warriors and all those who fell for freedom. Then comes the turn of a law aimed at a large group of people who do not have access to the market then, these are seasons, they say there are 60,000-100,000. I commend, but at the same time, I stress that it has been a little late with this season, putting on the agenda of this law, and I suggest that it is thought of for many years back. I will give an example of how Croatia has solved the issue of seasons, and I am surprised that Ana Brnabic, who was in a position since she was actively engaged in NAED, the National Alliance for Local Economic Development, is usually used to this keybinding, but it is time to say a full name, and which, in her exposé as Prime Minister, advocated the digitisation of Serbia, did not apply the Croatian model. It was precisely because NADED issued a statement in 2016, where he praised the Croatian model for solving seasonal problems, seasonal workers and their protection, which is so called. The model of vouchers, where the seasons would divide the workbooks in which employers glue the vouchers, buy them on a daily basis, in which the contributions and taxes would be included at the price of these vouchers. Then at the end of the season, those season workers with that workbook would go into retirement insurance where they would be enrolled. Really, I think, here, let me read you just their results, that since 2012 156,000 books have been sold in Croatia. So it's the number of seasonal workers who entered the system of the economy, so they came out of the gray economy, that nearly half a million vouchers were used, on average almost 1,300 a day, and bought over 2,324 companies. I'm really surprised why we didn't apply that model, but we're applying the model, which allows in the bill's proposal, that between the employer and the seasonal worker, or I'm going to say what's common with us, a little bit of defeating, between the landlord and the midwife, we're getting oral agreement. You know that in the legal system, oral agreement has no weight, no power, no contract written, and could be solved by these workbooks and vouchers, and if we're going to digitise Serbia, I'm simply afraid that the seasonal workers will not be protected. Because what an employer can do, who doesn't even know himself, maybe, if he's a physical person, for example. He doesn't know what risks there are at work, which are foreseen by law, what can happen to a season worker, and after that happens, because he doesn't have adequate insurance, or at least that written contract, he simply remains damaged, perhaps even permanently damaged by his health. I think this could have been solved in this very more modern way, and especially as the current Agriculture Minister, who was then on the board of directors, the Vice President of NAED, and was familiar with this model. So, I encourage ministers who are awaiting reconstruction, although I don't believe that the reconstruction will change much, but simply to communicate much more with each other, because there are really simple solutions, in the absence of public debates, or forced public debates, or shortened public debates, fall into oblivion. But I really stress that there are solutions and that we need to look into the region. As far as the region is concerned, I would like to ask a direct question, unfortunately Minister Djordjevic is not here, but there are his associates, there is a minister with no portfolio, in charge of population and demographic policy, I would like to say explicitly here whether this is proposed by law, or by the latest solutions now, amendments to the Law on Financial Assistance to families with children, whether it will be sustainable. Here, for example. One solution, if this assistance to families with children is extended to war payouts, say, it's going to be 120 months of war per 10,000, can we really believe that in three years, in five years, over seven years, over 10 years, that promise that is now made, black on white paper, will political respect, because we've seen how the legal pension has been acquired, simply, suddenly, derogated? I have in mind what happened in Montenegro. You know that Montenegro also gave national pensions to mothers with three and more children, and then when the elections passed, it was simply their right to derrogated, and that many mothers who quit at work, left, took that national pension, simply ran out of sources of income. So, I want, in fact, to appeal to the representatives of the government, yes, that is, Minister Djukic Dejanovic, since she is now our talker, to simply say whether she thinks that promise will be kept on the long term? Because we know that human rights cost money. In fact, whether a government's policy can be assessed by left-wing or right-wing, social-democratic, or by some conservative, whether more money will be given just to encourage the birth and strengthening of the family, or to buy some kind of outdated weapon. These are very serious decisions, and I just hope, when we are much more serious at the end of the year about budget cuts, and I commend that more and more money is being made, at least so declaratively, to encourage birth in Serbia, not to encourage war, to be, here, at least one of us has an explicit promise and predicting that the government official is saying that he thinks that this promise will be kept by money. To encourage birth at all, so here are my colleagues and the minister mentioned a lot of statistics, which are and are not a real picture, that's kind of an average. The Institute of Statistics can give one picture, and life across the cities and villages of Serbia seems much worse, somewhere even better, unbalanced. It's just, I don't think there's any progress for family or birth policy, as long as women don't get stronger. So if you put into the focus of politics, demographics, population, woman as the bearer of this population-building strategy, then you first have to economically strengthen the woman. Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who travels through Serbia, has recently been commending it, and perhaps it is an opportunity to explain what criteria were for the distribution of these funds to municipalities proposed by projects to raise the population? Ninety municipalities competed, as I understand it, only 15 municipalities got that 150 million fund, just to say what experiences they were and what criteria they were. It's very interesting and it's a simple incentive for some other municipalities, but already this disproportionate between 90 competed and 15 won, you can see how insufficient these funds are, how scarce they are, and how low they may be, and how unable to start at the bar. You know how many different municipalities and cities are underdeveloped, there are even devastated municipalities, and that's very difficult. I am sorry, too, that Minister Djordjevic is not present here, because he was here a few months ago, or his ministry made a public call for so-called. The SOS phone where women, victims of violence will answer. A few months ago, in the midst of a Belgrade campaign, he painted pre-election campaign with Sinish Mali, the Belgrade mayor and the two of them even promoted the number of phones, but today these women who are to be born, who are victims of violence and who have no basic conditions to give birth to more children, if they turn that number 08002220003 will get an answer from the machine – we are sorry, your call cannot be made. Please try again later. It's now some light motive of life in Serbia, without this, please, but try again later. Vote for a certain power, that power will promise in the election campaign everything and everything, and when it comes to the life of an ordinary man, we simply see that this time we may not have had luck with this political formula and this infinity – try again later. Imagine a woman who is exposed to violence and who turns that number, naive, thinking that this number works and that someone will protect her, just gets the video from this machine. It's a light motive for a woman living in the 21st century in Serbia. I must say, as an MP for the opposition, I was really in a dilemma when I asked a parliamentary question concerning textile workers in Smederev and concerning one of Danka Simic's workers in Mali Zvornik, who was transferred from the lab site, first to the cleaning lady, and then to work in the quarry and finally got fired. I thought if opposition MP, i.e. Parliament of Labour Minister Djordjevic asked the question and in the protection of Danka Simic, the Trustee for Equality, might be protected, on the side of Danka Simic, who worked in the quarry. So she carried stones with her hands, while the machines were standing, because she was punished, because her husband was one of the leaders of the union organization. I thought maybe the public would protect her, but she got fired a while ago and then it turns out that what we're talking about in parliament, what the camera reflectors, what the TV reflectors or these cameras that are tracking us, the journalists who are regularly reporting to Smederev or this Little Zvornik, actually don't help the ordinary man, and that's a tragedy. How will Danka Simic now tell her descendants to give birth to more children when life in Serbia is like this? I want to tell you that one thing we will promise, which we will adopt as MPs of the majority, and perhaps constructive proposals of the opposition will support, why not, but really life in Serbia of seasonal workers, women of mothers and workers is extremely cruel. I really don't know where we're going and who we're kidding, not to use some harsh word, if we're saying it's possible to reach that standard of having a third child in Serbia, or even that incentive. That it's 10,000 and it's 20,000, I really appreciate it. That's concrete money. We saw, after all, in the pre-election campaign that the ministry of Minister Djordjevic was giving some intervention distributions, by 16,000 dinars, to citizens who were socially at risk. I don't mind that, but these are one-time solutions that won't systemically solve and simply put the position of citizens in the position of someone who's asking for charity from politicians. In the end, of course, there are other laws here, here, peaceful resolution of work disputes. The same should be supported, but I just said that these textile workers passed through Smederev, that some were under pressure to quit themselves, and that their labour rights might not be at a satisfactory level yet. Labour inspection comes to the field, but more shrubs than it discovers and which is able to protect workers, but workers have lost their will to organise themselves trade unionally. They don't trust politicians, maybe not unions. The unions are trying. We've seen for example. in "Gosa" how difficult it is to run a company that is in a long-term dubiosis. Indeed, the mission of the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs, is not to close down. It's quite a counterproductive choice to say – it's a private company, we can't interfere. And you should get involved because these people live in Serbia. Minister Djukic Dejanovic mentioned that one third of young people in a survey are ready to leave Serbia. It's a huge outflow. Professor Grecic mentioned the figure, if it went so far, that it leaves so many highly educated people annually, that Serbia has lost nine billion euros in investment in their education, in their expertise. I really appeal that these money we have or the money we don't have is really a good distribution and that we give it to support life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40436	Thank you, colleague Vukomanovic. The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40437	When it comes to seasonal workers, of course, before the law was passed, there were very direct communications with them and that, with the tendency to eliminate the gray zone and that their elemental rights to ensure the future in terms of, above all, pension insurance are brought to the wish that we all have here. A whole series of parallel legislations have been analysed, safe and Croatian. Our prime minister really got involved in the engagement over all this, as she promised and when she had her opening presentation in this high house. You know, what people themselves have said, who are engaged as seasonal workers, and also employers, is that the oral contract is something that is very acceptable to them and no one has complained about that component. On the other hand, the difference between Croatia and our law is that we predicted that our peasant should be educated in the local offices about electronic registration. We think it's really a step forward and he needs it. It is a very simple education and will last as long as necessary. I do not think that the difference in the text of the law between the Croatian law and ours should give an advantage in a more positive assessment of Croatian law. Of course, it is very important that in case of injury or professional illness during seasonal work, safety should be created for the seasonal worker. These are advantages, and that's what we did with this legislative matter. Therefore, the issues of MP Vukomanovic, related to the differences between our law and Croatian law, simply seem to lose some sense, as using everything positive from that text, the Croatian text of the law has been taken into account and a step forward has been taken. On the other hand, certain victims of violence and a promised phone line were mentioned here. It's a very serious matter. You know, if something had happened before, we could step forward again, but when you need to establish a phone line for victims of violence that will have national, not local character that we already have, then it means really technical and professional, so educational and all other applications, and that's what's really going to happen, and none of that is, not only has he not given up, but in the name of the Government, we promise that it will happen. I'd like to remind you that we wanted it to be a political measure, a populist measure that, by the age of 10, the mother who gave birth to a third child and the fourth child has 12 or 18 thousand for the child's standard. We would, by some sublaw act, regulate it and there would be no debate here in Parliament among you. What you MPs put in the text of the law will have the status of acquired rights. I don't think any other MPs who come after you are going to lift that right. On the contrary, I think the rights in this segment will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40438	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40439	I thank you for the answer that, as I say, is eloquent, politically correct, but simply does not answer those questions that now raise those thoughts that go into people's minds across Serbia. I don't know, I don't think the season workers are watching us right now. It's enough that when you go to the country you see those heavy hands, let me say. When you see how many of those hands are out there, how hard physical labor it is, then this story of mine might be about the vouchers or your story of the oral contract between the boss and the seasonal worker, the rewarding officer... This mentions the figure from a thousand to three thousand dinars. I don't think there's that much wages in Serbia's village for all kinds of hard-working hands. So I think this is a social demagogue, that it's going to last for a while, it's already late, the season of work has already begun. Now imagine these raspberries who are dissatisfied with the ransom price of raspberries. What can they do from that price to give these people to pick up the raspberries, on an even tenfold lower wage? That's why I'm saying you don't live a real life. It's different to sit in government, copy strategies, but you don't even communicate with each other. You see, the Minister of Agriculture stood up for this Croatian model. I don't know why you didn't accept it. It doesn't even have to be Croatian. Don't bother you now that it's from our northern neighbour, but I fear that you don't end this right to families with children by Montenegro's model.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40440	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40441	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 107, violation of dignity. He says when you go to the country. How am I supposed to get to the country? It is recommended that we all go to the country. I live in the country. How am I supposed to get to the country? I didn't understand that moaning after heavy hands. Apparently, a friend was in the village of Ježevica next to Cuck. She probably saw the heavy hands of Vuk Jeremic, whom I call a descendant wolf. It must have been the wounded peasant hands, it must have been seven and a half million dollars in that torture, etc. She must have seen all this trouble worth seven and a half million dollars. I thought there was a gold mine in Ježevica, or an oil spring, heavy, from which this one exhausted seven and a half million dollars, and it really is a violation of dignity when someone suffers so much after the village and leaves the village, as Vuk Jeremic went and then they talk about heavy hands, about how to go to the country. Comrade, welcome to the country. We will find you a groom and fortunately both you and him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40442	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40443	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, he's a harshly broken, humiliated, crushed member of 108. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which clearly states that the session of the National Assembly is the former president of the National Assembly. You know what, Mr. Chairman, I can't complain about Marijan Rističević, it's beneath every dignity and level, because every one of his address is a violation of the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly. I have to complain about you, and that's why I point to this breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm very fond of talking to these great heroes who are capable of dealing with ladies, insulting ladies, and in some other way being heroic. But to do so by someone who only had a relationship with the village has been in a reality farm or a similar variant, or some other way of dealing with a supply reserve, which is why his wife had to wear a toenail in her time... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40444	My colleague Obradovic, I think it's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure to insult family members and insult our colleagues personally. (Bosko Obradović: Yes. You didn't notice when he insulted her. No, I didn't notice anything. I have noticed that you are insulting the family of the People's MP and I beg you, in order not to punish you, I will take that time away from the time of the MP's group. Thank you. Gordana Komic has a word, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40445	Thank you, Chairman. You have injured Article 27, which obliges you to take care of order at the National Assembly session. The MP is in a failed attempt to be funny, as we discuss the Law on the financial support of families with children, speaking to the MPs, he said – just come, if necessary, we will find you a groom. I know most of them here mean absolutely nothing. People's MPs earn – it's a popular policy. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's the worst kind of demeaning of all women, and those who sit in the hall and those who look at you and listen. Being proud of mocking women with sentences – I will find you a groom, in the National Assembly, is the point where you see what it looks like when violence entertains people. It can't fall any lower. Yes, but then there are so many obvious words that the chairman would probably have to react as well. I wouldn't react to any other kind of reaction or language in this room. It is your right to hold a session, awaiting a spirit in which the messengers of the people will say things to each other through you. But if you don't shut up about telling a woman here - just come, I'll find you a groom, then we have a much bigger problem than the content of this law or the way you or I look at the contents of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40446	Thank you, Col. Comic, you know we're probably looking the same way or the same. Then you can't treat yourself like that. ) I understood my colleague Rističević exactly as you said at the beginning of your speech, that he only wanted to be funny, that he had no intention of insulting Diana Vukomanovic. (Gordana Comic: He didn't want to be funny, he wanted to insult, he disrespected his colleagues. That's what he wanted, with the support of the majority in the congregation. ( b) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? (No) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40447	Article 103(8) Mr. Chairman, you were supposed to take two minutes away from the MP groups because of these insidious replicas that were supposed to look like a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what a shame it is to live in the country? So many of us live in the country. I don't know what the shame is in the offer – come live in the country, we'll find you a groom. There are 300,000 single men. It's just one offer, no offense. On the contrary, the villages insult us, as if we were men of the third, fourth, "žen" categories. So, if I said – come to Paris, then it would be nice, come to the Himalayas, then it would be nice, come to Maldives, that would be nice. I don't understand why someone advertises the Rules of Procedure and argues that insult is something that's perfectly natural for a person who has stood up so much for the village, agriculture, heavy hands, etc. Since we're very few in the country, since obviously someone wants to help, it's normal for me to offer that kind of help, and if I have to, I'm always at my disposal, whoever wants to live in the country, I'm going to help him, even in the country's work, to farm, eventually, if they're abandoned preparation, etc. But you have allowed Bosko Obradovic to turn to my wife as he wills. So, he's been told he's wearing a toenail, and here's a confirmation that he's not wearing it. Then from the same group, the descendent of Vuk Jeremic was said to have been in prison. Here's a confirmation that it's not. And in the future, whoever wants to see these certificates, and her health is seriously compromised, can come here and check. My wife didn't work in the public sector as a female descendant wolf and won't hold a press conference and cry for her colleagues to pass it on. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40448	Thank you, colleague Rističević. You saw for yourself that I did not allow the debate to take place in that direction so that the MPs were offended on a personal and family basis, especially by family members. I'm sorry. I took time from the Boska Obradovic parliamentary group. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) I ask once more of the MPs not to insult the members of the family of our colleagues. Diana Vukomanovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40449	Thank you, Vice President. You're headed in the right direction right now, but I don't think you share justice equally. I'm referring to a member of 106 who says there's only points of the agenda that can be spoken of at the session. The items of the agenda are war memorials, and since one of the colleagues speaks in an irate context, the ironic context of some descendants, I said in my presentation that the state is a partnership of all those and us who live and those who gave lives and whose bones were scattered not only in Serbia, but also in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, to remind whose Wolf Jeremic is a descendant, to remember the family of Pozderac, his great-grandfather who received the plaque from Israel – the righteous of the international... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40450	My colleague Vukomanović, you are now replicating the concept of mentioning... (Diana Vukomanovic: I'm talking about war memorials. Well, yes, you mention Wolf Jeremic and his family tree. I won't let the debate go that way. We can ask the question – did he pay his taxes, not who his grandfather is? Thank you. Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40451	I would simply, just for the sake of truth, you know, the government of the Republic of Serbia works absolutely at full capacity and I would like to inform the MPs and the public that there are no divisions in work, especially with this important legislative matter on the agenda today. The Minister of Agriculture not only actively participated, but also gave written consent to the text of this law. So, complete insinuations are that the government is doing kind of disharmonic, multi-sectoral work is a rule of government work and, of course, people have the right to different opinions, but in this particular case you have to trust me that the Minister of Agriculture is absolutely behind every line, point and mark in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40452	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Hadji Stosic. Here you go. Sign up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40453	Thank you. Dear President, I am also talking today, among other things, about the draft laws of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and families of fallen fighters and about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters and Members and their families. I'm going to talk a little bit more about the War Memorial Bill, since I've dealt with this problem in some time before, and I can say that this law is making some new solutions that mean a much better relationship to war memorials than it was to this day, that is, to this day. Chairman, please. (President: Please allow colleagues Hadji Stosic to continue his speech.) Here you go. ) This War Memorial Act addresses the issue of importance for the protection, maintenance, arrangement and financing of maintenance and arrangement of certain war memorials in the Republic of Serbia and abroad. This area of protection of war memorials has been regulated so far by some laws passed 30 years ago, which were related to the SFRY and the SRS and in the division of some responsibilities or responsibilities have recently been large-scale and disharmonic. This proposal for a law regulates this area in a more comprehensive way. The responsibilities of the local self-government unit and the ministry responsible for the care of the tradition of the Liberation Wars are clearly distinguished. It was just the local self-government in some previous period, based on previous laws, over 30, 40 years old, that jurisdiction was undefined in some obligations. I will explain later all the obstacles that have affected the inability to address the important issues in this area, which are now regulated by this law. I would just point out, if we all knew, the law in Article 2 defines the concept of what is meant by war memorials. The war memorial is a military cemetery, an individual grave, a tombstone, a monument of a skeleton, a memorial chapel, a memorial church, a monument, a public memorial mark, a memorial of a record, a place of destruction, a famous place and other drinking symbols of importance for the cultivation of the Liberation Wars. Now, which is very important, by this law in Chapter II. 3rd and 5th education is a council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. Education of this body, i.e. this advice on the cultivation of the tradition of liberation wars as a professional body, which consists of seven members from the ranks of professors of history, prominent figures from the field of science and art of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, members from the State Administration, Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defence, as well as a member of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. The Council will be tasked with giving expert opinions on the proposal to edit the war memorial or to edit the new war memorial. The education of councils in this composition will bring many disagreements, particularly in a professional way, but many disagreements on the relationship between the ministry and local self-government, which are also defined by this law. In this part of the law, measures are specified to implement the protection of war memorials as the obligation of the Republic. Also, the duties of the local self-government unit related to the regular maintenance of war memorials, as well as their editing, are clearly defined by the competencies of the Republic and local self-government units, which is not the case now, as well as the way of overcoming the problem, when units of local self-government, and most often this is the case, do not have enough funds for regular, current or investment maintenance. I believe this law will solve a long-standing problem in Nis, when it comes to military cemetery on the Deli High. I believe Secretary of State Negovan Stankovic knows what I'm talking about. I, as a member of the City Council of Nis in 2008, raised many questions in resolving the military cemetery's war memorial Delijski vis, which buried some 6,000 Serb warriors and Balkan wars both from World War I and II. The military cemetery on the Delijski Vis is a specific war memorial, consisting of three cemetery continents. In fact, there is a place where they are buried, just as I was saying, these 6,000 Serb fighters and in the part of that military cemetery there is a place where a number of German soldiers and a number of British soldiers are buried. I can say that this is a unique case in Europe, where opponents, enemies in the war together in death are in the same space. The city of Nis has done much for war memorials and in co-operation with the embassies of England and Germany, but unfortunately it has failed to make a grave mark on the space of the buried Serb soldiers, while the tombmark in British and German exists. An idea project has been done, an agreement has been made with the British and German embassies on joint investment, but unfortunately the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Defence did not give consent, for unknown reasons, to make it a gravemark in the area where Serb soldiers were buried. Otherwise, the Department of Defence is a beneficiary of this land, now I believe, through this council and through certain powers that the Ministry of Defence will have to finally resolve. I believe this law will remove the shortcomings of both disagreements and Serbs, i.e. the city of Nis will build a tombmark and chapel for worship and fertilization of buried warriors. So I urge both the Minister of Labour and the Secretary of State to help us finally do something to these victims that should be their respective monument. As a completely new law, Article 19 defines a proposal for the construction or existence of a new war memorial. This is a complete newspaper, because the applicable regulations in the field of the cultivation of traditions and the protection of war memorials do not foresee the process and construction of new war memorials, nor is it within the responsibility of the ministry to adopt a solution to the raising of war memorials. So, the regulations so far have not been defined, now this law defines it, which I think is one very good thing. I would also like to list only two examples of already built-up settings that need to get the status of war memorials, which are the mention of rooms in Vranj and Nis, which represent a unique case of respect for the victims. The author of all these items is a great man and patriot, the commander of the country's army of the Republic of Serbia, General Milosav Simovic. I call upon all the MPs, and also citizens to visit these two examples of rooms, and I can see how it is and how much it has been done to make up for these people who have been killed for the freedom of this country, in some ways, to repay ourselves. In Chapter V, Article 25 provides for the obligation to keep records of war memorials in the country and abroad, which determines the competent authority for keeping records. Article 24 prescribes keeping records of the deceased, which has not been established in our country so far, and so far there has been no legal basis for keeping such records in one place. That provision constitutes a major newspaper that implies the obligation of all bodies holding any record that at the request of the competent ministries of the same delivery and kept permanently. As an example, I'm going to re-emerge in these two elements, or I'm going to list a military cemetery on the Delician height in Nis. I was saying there are three cemetery continents. In the British cemetery there is a common gravemark and gravestones individually for each buried. There is also a tombmark in the German cemetery with a tombstone on which are buried names. Unfortunately, there are only tombstones in the Serbian cemetery with no name or last name, and about 6,000 Serb warriors were buried. It's just an indication of our relationship with our ancestors and those who have given us freedom for many years. There's no better situation on our war memorials abroad either. A few years ago he visited the Mathauzen concentration camp in Austria. Among other things, we visited a military cemetery, or military cemetery in the village of Mathauzen, where about 12,000 dead, dead fighters were buried. From this I can tell you that 2,000 fighters are Italian, Russian, Czech, Slovak and other nations, and 10,000 buried Serbs. Also, unfortunately at the Nis military cemetery, there is a gravemark for Serb soldiers, but there is no record of who is buried there and at what time. While, as far as other nations and Poles and Russians and French and Italy are concerned, there are arranged individual gravestones for each buried in that cemetery. But it's not all black, we have positive examples, we have certain war memorials, or military cemeteries all over some countries and across Europe that it's quite one other way done. I'll set an example only on the island of Vidu, the Blue Tomb, and you yourself know how many of our men were killed there after breaking through Albania, and I can tell you that I was thrilled to be there on the board or on the board, where the names of the victims buried in the Blue Tomb were found by an uncle of mine, or an uncle of my great-grandfather. That is why this legislation, which defines the record, partially corrects the injustice that we all have done so far towards our ancestors. There are domestic and foreign archives on the basis of which data on deceased persons can be established, only if the right responsibilities and ministries and local self-government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are now defined, can we do something to simply know where our people were killed, where they were buried. I will resume the example of the disputed room in Vranj, which is recorded again thanks to our patriot General Simovic, 5,648 dead soldiers from Vranj and the surrounding area were recorded, while in the disputed room in Nis 16,186 killed from Nis and the surrounding areas in previous wars with the most basic data, which means that we can establish at least a partial number and people buried there. One combustion in the Low Memorial room, there is a list of 52 British soldiers who died in Serbia during World War I. Last year, Nis was visited by descendants of Scottish nurses, who led Dr. Ellis Inglis in 1915, founded 14 military hospitals across Europe, of which 10 in Serbia. The delegation was of 20 people. Among other things, they visited Nis and the sights of Nis, but also some war memorials. We can be proud of the war memorials in Nis, which serve as tourist destinations, primarily a monument on Chegra, Cele Tower and many others who are arranged, but also many others who are not arranged. As General Simovic spoke in the humanity of Scottish nurses who gave their lives to help Serb warriors and in the occurrence of infectious diseases, a few of them found their ancestors on those 52-person lists in the Nis room. I believe that the criminal provisions that are defined by this law will affect because most often we react only to some penalties, we are far from conscious and conscious of doing business, regardless of how defined and precise it is. Certainly, the PUPS will support the proposal on war memorials and will vote in favour of this law. I would now briefly say about amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters. As the explanation puts it, a real-state alignment is being carried out. We also had previous laws that defined both SRJ and Serbia-Montenegro. We didn't have a definitive, final law that would define the Republic of Serbia. These proposed solutions shall ensure the stability and regularity of receiving all persons to whom the law applies and therefore shall be adopted by an urgent procedure. As users of the rights under these laws,... . prolonging, publication of statistics and suspensions of advance payments in order not to be left without the necessary material protection. Minister Zoran Djordjevic announced the creation of a new law that will fully regulate this issue and expect a bill this year. I believe that we will finally pass the law on fighters and on combat protection and have legislation to regulate assistance to all those who participated in various combat acts. We expect a proposal of quality and complete law and solution, and it is not crucial that these changes and additions be carried out by technical documents now but by the old federal law. However, I propose that in Article 103 instead of the term – the federal minister responsible for the issues of fighters and military disabled people, since there is no such one now, be added a term – a Republic minister or a competent ministry. Also, in Article 106 instead of the term – the competent federal authority, to use the term – the competent ministry or the competent authority. Once again, the PUPS parliamentary group will support all the three laws I have talked about and all the laws that are in today's debate after this debate and discussions in particular with the improvement of the quality of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40454	Thanks, buddy. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40455	I find it difficult to say - the Honorable Chairman, but let me say, the Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected Madam Ministers, with fellow Members, especially I would like to welcome the distinguished colleagues who work in the state administration, in local self-government across Serbia and who, indeed, on their shoulders, think of unworthy, honest and honorable civil servants of the state administration and local self-government, not those who are partyly appointed there and only paralysed, who maintain the system of this state and local self-government, so it is my turn to welcome you here in the House of National Assembly. What I always do, because I think it's a real opposition job, is to distinguish what's good in the proposed legal solutions from what's wrong with the proposed legal solutions. I never have, nor will I have a problem telling the public what's good and commending it. I think it's the role and purpose of a constructive opposition. On the other hand, and how the role and purpose of the opposition's work is to criticise all the bad things you have proposed in these legal solutions. First of all, it's bad because there is no minister here who has proposed all these laws, and I can't understand what more important work can be from a minister, except to sit in the National Assembly when his laws are on the agenda. This is the humiliation of the MPs and the National Assembly, but it speaks more of Minister Zoran Djordjevic than of anything else. What I am obliged to say here is that the first law that is on the agenda, which is the Law on War Memorial, has one extremely good thing, and that is that we will finally come up with a list of all war memorials in the country and abroad, which we will very clearly know who has the responsibilities, obligations and responsibilities in relation to all of them, and of course we will, if I understand it correctly, will be one additional obligation, and that is a key obligation to finally go to one list, that is, to record all the dead warriors in the Serbian Liberation and Defence Wars in history, which I would say, is one very important duty that we have not done until the end. There, of course, is already ending all the positive things I had to say, because the existing law has a large number of shortcomings, as well as laws concerning war veterans, which have only been used here to change and supplement the laws and decisions of Minister Zoran Djordjevic since 8 March 2018, where he put aside the applicable law and provided for, or avoided, compliance with the change in the average personal income from the previous month and decided to do so once a year. So, very simply, the minister denied war veterans and all others who are receiving on this basis by, say, paying them in January for 16.9% in February for 12.4% and in March for 15.6%. That's how much you care about war veterans. Given that such a decision by the minister has created conditions for the claims of users against the state, this legislative proposal now deprives you of the possibility of these lawsuits and legalizes what the minister has done, which is that on war veterans and disabled wars it saves about millions of euros at the country's monthly level. Well done on these savings. Instead of further taxing foreign banks, tycoons and all those who don't pay taxes to this country, you further taxed war veterans who were willing to give their lives to this country when it was most needed. I am obliged to inform you, gentlemen of the authorities, that war veterans are announcing their protest for Vidovdan in Belgrade and that the protest wants to end with a hunger strike. The reason is very simple, you have admitted it yourself, for six years your authority of the SNS and the SPS is unable to pass a roof law on war veterans, disabled wartimes, families of the dead and all those who were in their time willing to sacrifice themselves for this country in the country wars. For six years you have shown inability to resolve this issue of paying off war logs, solving all other health, social problems, disability problems, family problems, etc. At least you wrote one sentence and it was the whole law-containing thing, that this country recognizes and respects all those who were willing to give their lives for this country, even though you weren't prepared to do so, let alone meet them on certain social, economic and other issues. What is also an amendment to Dvori's interventions and objections to this law, is that you do not at all treat camps in Serbia's territory as war memorials. I think it's a major failure, perhaps even mentioning the taps, but the camps are definitely, which you're avoiding -- Serbian, like all other government representatives when it comes to the Liberation Wars, these are Serbian Liberation Defense Wars to just remind you, not anyone else. Also, I think the flaw is that in Article 4, when you talk about the advice that will deal with fostering the tradition of liberation wars, you did not predict members of the SPC and other traditional religious communities from the ranks of scientific institutes and the Society of Historians. Also, you don't mention anywhere exactly what wars are related to, exactly where the memorials refer, whether 15 of the least large military cemeterys will have guards who will be paid by the state and who will care about it all. Why don't you mention terrorists among those who shouldn't get any monuments in Serbia, and I'll give you a reason why. If you weren't Madam Minister, I recommend you go to Vranj, then to Velika Trnovec, and take a walk through Velika Trnovac, and see there a memorial to the former members of the Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje on the territory of Serbia, a monument that your authority tolerates and where someone celebrates who was a terrorist and rises up against this state. That's why you don't mention, I suppose, terrorists and that they're not forbidden to raise monuments. So it's allowed for terrorists, who were raised armed against this state, to raise monuments, to have it already in the Great Trnovac, you can visit it and lay flowers, if you agree with those terrorist ideas of the former Liberation Army. Presheva, Bujanovci and Bear. Perhaps in your term of office, both Haradinaj and Thaci will receive a memorial as your coalition partners... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40456	My colleague Obradovic, I will not allow you to communicate like this, not only with Minister Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, but with anyone in this room. Please continue in the spirit and tone of these laws that are on the agenda today, but that you are telling Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic to go and lay flowers on some grave of terrorists, a monument to terrorists. What do you want to say to the woman who was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who was President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is that what you're saying? (Bosko Obradovic: Do you want me to explain what I want to say? No, I don't want you to explain, I'm just warning you to continue in that tone of what the National Assembly and this esteemed home... (Bosko Obradovic, throws out of town. I give you a warning about your insult to Minister Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40457	Mr. Chairman, I don't really know what you're doing? I'm just saying that a monument was built on the territory of this state to terrorists of the former so-called. The Liberation Army of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje and that it is located in the center of the village of Velika Trnovac near Vranja, i.e. in Bujanovac, more precisely. That's why you gave me a warning about telling the truth? Then that's proof of how you run this session and that you're in pain of the truth. Now, let's move on. So what's second here is a very problematic legal solution, is the solution to this so-called solution. The simplification law, so to speak, the engagement of seasonal workers in certain activities. Please withdraw this law immediately from the assembly procedure. He's scandalously bad and half-employees and half-employees and make sure you make a better and better law. Here, I'll explain why. First of all, I don't know what the idea is now, to cut the harvest and get the workers and employers to start training in the local offices, Madam Minister. Is it the idea that one, two, three months, all the harvests and all the seasonal activities in agriculture are lifted so that you can train them how to, I say, report their seasonal workers? Incredibly, we're passing laws in the middle of harvesting, let's say, seasonal workers. Why is he so controversial about employers? Because it puts extra pressure on them. In addition, they are burdened by such a destroyed Serbian agricultural land, by a destroyed and humiliated Serbian peasant, and by the indemnity and over-indebted who cannot even pay himself any taxes and contributions, any health and social security, and we are burdening ourselves with this legal solution of yours. Thus, the bill prescribes a number of new obligations for holders of registered agricultural land, which many farmers will not be able to understand, let alone apply. What does that mean exactly? So they're going to have to file electronic reports, that of course in various ways here you've increased extra burdens on farmers based on 10% tax, contributions to pension and disability 26%, health insurance 2%. I remind you that these same farmers have been unable to pay their own taxes for decades and contribute to pension and disability insurance and health insurance and that their debts are currently 1.5 billion euros, precisely because they are powerless in one country favouring imports of foreign agricultural products, killing the competition of domestic producers, being competitive and dealing with agriculture at all. It is amazing that when you talk to a Serbian peasant today that he will tell you that there is no more point in farming in Serbia, that he can no longer live than that in this god-given country for agriculture, which bears wherever you sow and which has such a fertile country, which has enough water for irrigation, which can be organised into ransom stations, in guaranteed prices, in export insurance, in the food-processing industry. A Serbian peasant cannot survive, and you are burdening him further with this law and found yourself practicing on him how to fight the grey economy and black workers. Let's get this sorted out somewhere else, and let the peasant come to the end of the line, when you put order in some other places, and not to put extra burden on the peasants. Of course, I don't know if there's been any public debate here, I don't know if you've spoken to the Agricultural Association and I don't know, so when you visited which villages to ask them what would be the best way to solve the problem of seasonal workers. So, you haven't thought at all about the employer's interests. At the same time, you didn't even think about the interest of a worker, or a superior in seasonal activities, and you know why? Because you're predicting an oral labor contract. How can an oral contract on the work of any worker then resolve his fate and what was actually agreed and what his rights were and how to achieve them in a court of law, etc. Otherwise, the oral contract does not exist in the applicable laws in Serbia and is directly contrary to the Labour Act, I think you know it, but you are simply doing the opposite of the law. So, if the purpose was to, as I say, protect seasonal workers engaged in agriculture, who have been working in the black zone for years, without applying for insurance and without the prospect of exercising their right to retire, i.e. obtaining a period of employment that would allow them to exercise their right to the same, I think you have missed the point of not achieving an imaginary purpose because the defined way of working for seasonal workers in agriculture is in reality completely inapplicable and not protecting those interests of the workers that you intended to protect. Now we come, of course, to my favorite and most interesting subjects, and I would like to welcome, in that sense, a respected minister without a portfolio that deals with demographics and birthrights. It is finally one step of the current government to remember after six years that Serbia has a problem with the white plague and that we are disappearing demographically as a people. If it took you six years, I'm afraid you won't be doing anything special right now because you obviously don't understand that matter. We are always ready to support every step and every, so to speak, the measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that supports the fight against the white plague and which sets the fight against the white plague as the national priority of number one. You remembered, after six years, that maybe you should do a little of that, you didn't even start the ministry, you even started the ministry without a portfolio, i.e. The cabinet of a minister without a portfolio, which is only proof that you are treating and who is important to you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to resolve this issue. It doesn't even have a ministry, and state priority is number one. Of course, there are good things. I would also like to publicly commend the minister here because she has sent her representatives to the roundtable on the family organised by the Dvora in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the participation of more than 20 major associations dealing with the protection of family values in Serbia. It's a good move, one attempt to communicate and co-operate on the matter. On our part, Madam Minister, you will always have an open hand when it comes to this problem of demographics, birth and the fight against the white plague. Regardless of what we are your fierce opposition opponents, this is a topic that exceeds our party conflicts and divisions and you can always count on the Devera to respond and help in this regard. I also thank you for the reception of our delegation of the Serbian Movement Dvora who visited you to get acquainted with what you are doing and which you have received kindly and nicely. What has been very interesting today, as the latest news, is that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic announced that the "Friend of the Family" award will receive companies that, with good business results in collectives, have created a family and friendly environment that enables employees to coordinate their work and parenting. Congratulations, another real thing, but it would be your turn to get to know the public that "Serbia – Friend of the Family", the campaign of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori, has been a few years ago and that all these ideas you have taken over from the Serbian Movement of the Dvori, that's good, that's very good. This means that you realize how constructive, positive and quality our ideas are, when you literally take and the names of our campaigns for the names of the prizes that you are now awarding and you're dealing with the topics we've been talking about for 20 years, but here, after six years, the authorities and you're starting to realize how important these are. What is, however, here and how controversial is that, Madam Minister, no topic in this area can be legally solved if they do not do their job as a field inspector and that is a key issue. Whether field labour inspections protect the mother, the foster mother, the pregnant woman, whether they allow sliding hours, whether in any other way they protect anyone who is discriminated against as a parent, as a father or mother of more children, as someone who should have an understanding of their employer and why they are not further favoured not only by such prizes and plaques once a year, but by additional tax reliefs and other financial incentives by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget of the particular company that respects and have that kind of social responsibility towards family policy. You can do it all, but you're not doing it because you're not doing it well yet in something that took you six years to realize that the white plague is the biggest problem of this country. There's not enough resources that you're detaching. These funds are only a drop in the sea of the population policy that needs to be done, because while you support birth, more people than those born leave this country, not wanting and not seeing any perspective under your authority and the way you work here against the interests of domestic economy, domestic agriculture, domestic banking, working for the interests of foreign companies, foreign banks and foreign embassies. People just don't see the perspective of life in Serbia anymore, and that's a much bigger problem for you to stop than to rub your eyes with some financial incentives that we support. But where are you to essentially introduce measures that will support the fight against the white plague? You're just not there, because then you'd have to change the Labour Act, you'd have to change media policy and strategy, so you wouldn't be able to promote a show show more than family shows, cultural and educational programs. But you can't hit those who actually hold this power, and these are your reality friends from "Pinka", "Heppie" and other TVs that just 24 hours of propaganda promote you as power and you, of course, won't hit those anti-family TV programs that destroy morals, culture, identity and psyche of this people. As an expert, you know perfectly what I'm talking about, it's just a question of whether you can publicly tell what these people are for and for the future of future generations of "Farma", "The Couples", "The Cooperative" and anything else that ensnars the brain of this nation, morals, identity and a worthy court for anyone who should be that future parent and that future father and mother. So, if future parents are going to grow up at the values of "The Couple" and "The Cooperative", then there's no way your financial incentives can solve anything. This is a moral and valuable question. That's why people don't have children, that's why they have few children, because they don't believe in marriage anymore, in parenting, in family, don't believe in the meaning of life in this country, so they don't create families or give birth to children. It's a valuable fight, Madam Minister, not a fight you'll solve with some financial incentive. It's a good thing you remembered that, too, but you still don't understand what the essence of this fight is. I would like to commend an extraordinary association of citizens called "Mom's Dream" from New Belgrade, which deals with supporting pregnant women and maternity families. Here, these days over a hundred mothers have received their wing and organized daily talks in Belgrade and socializing with them and serviceing their mother's needs because their children have not been admitted to kindergartens, because there is not enough room in kindergartens in Belgrade, etc. So there's a lot of issues. But you, instead of solving these issues, Madam Minister, are to introduce order into inspections, to protect those mothers, pregnant women from being fired, and from everything else they've been exposed to, say, in these companies that you've subsidized from 10,000 euros in a new job, without being able to go to the bathroom, wear diapers and all other humiliations for 20,000 dinars, there you could, say, send a little inspection, and see how these women and mothers work in those conditions, instead of solving it, you decided to deal with solving parents who didn't vaccinate their children. Please, what makes you think that's right? It's completely contrary to other laws and it's not your area of jurisdiction at all. Here, let me explain why. It's even against the constitution. Thus, the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases in Article 85(6) defines criminal provisions in the event that a natural person refuses to immunise a person of a certain age and defines a fine of between 30,000 and 150,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40458	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40459	However, the key question is – parents have the right to express doubts about non-domestic vaccines. You punish them by two laws – a law I have already quoted and you are now introducing that they cannot receive social assistance, or financial incentives because they have not vaccinated their children. So you double your parents' punishment and you don't prove the correctness of the vaccine, but we don't have any domestic vaccines anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40460	Thank you, colleague Obradovic, with only two remarks. One thing about starting your speech, you made one mistake, you probably don't get to know the Rules of Procedure about work and law. So, the bill's proposals do not refer to the National Assembly of the Ministry or the Ministers, but to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I feel collegiately that it would be both gentlemen and correct to send an apology to Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, but that is up to you now. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40461	I thank you, Chairman. Well, not only did you not adequately respond to a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you allowed MP Obradovic to continue with an extremely harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure throughout his discussion. I think that we are not and must not be the hostages of such a speech that is repeated from session to session, which is repeated every time this MP takes a word at the meetings of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. He not only said that there is a monument in a village on the territory of the Vranj municipality, which was raised by terrorists, but called on the minister to place flowers on the monument. Is it an insult, dear fellow MPs, only to our distinguished Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, or is it an insult to the state of Serbia? We personally don't mind that MP Obradovic going to that village and removing that monument and taking steps to ensure that this monument is never found there again, but we cannot allow it to offend the state, to insult this authority that has allowed the entire Republic of Serbia, most importantly, to rule peace and stability and that no one is threatened. What you had to, and now, the chairman, did not, and had to do, is sanction what was continued and during the discussion by Parliamentarian Obradovic, and these were still insults to Mrs Djukanovic as a government minister. I don't think any ministers have come here for the shooting, including our friend Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. When we suffer selective criticism, then I must remind the opposition MPs of one fact, and allow me only five seconds, which is that when offended Minister Djukic Dejanovic did not react here, and in one single sentence addressed to Mrs. Vukomanovic, we have experienced salves of criticism and insult in an inappropriate way. Please make sure that we don't even have that kind of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40462	Do you think it is necessary to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure made by the Chairman? (Nedjo Jovanovic: No. ) The river has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40463	I'm just saying that the tendency is, in fact, that the Memorial bill ensures the continuity of the rights of fighters, and that any financial differences, if any, will be compensated by the end of the year. That's the first thing I wanted to say. Secondly, when it comes to the debate about seasonal workers, it's not just about the peasant that's being mentioned here. And combined, and large business entities are the subject of this law, and the truth is there were three public debates in the process before we joined each other here to discuss the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40464	Thank you very much. Authorised, Gordana Komic. You're authorized? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40465	Thank you. Of all the laws that are on the agenda, I will share with the government representatives remarks about three, with the previous introduction that I have never read the laws, I will never read, I will not read, I will not read, as the laws proposed by someone who is the government that I support and whose opposition I am. Fortunately, there is Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, and she knows it's true. I look at laws, billings and solutions like a text that needs to change people's lives, whoever the government is, and whoever the opposition is. And that's why I chose these three laws because everyone else on the agenda is the law again, so I'm reading the agenda, would I put it on the agenda if it wasn't for the government that I'm an opposition, but that I support? I would, since it's technical details in many laws, or it's about imminent harmonisation. However, these three laws stand out. From what is often read in the laws that the Government has proposed, and what I consider to be a deep scar of pulsism in us and the ethics of good intentions without ethics of responsibility. The first of these laws is the War Memorial Act and the first two remarks why it's good to even be on the agenda, because we don't have that law. Personally, I feel, as I say, I'm sorry, because you have proof that this law is not 40 years old, evidence of lack of self-respect in this people. Evidence of intent, we'll talk about our heroes, where we've all been, who's killed everyone, but we don't have any memories. Someone's gonna come from somewhere, so they're gonna do it to us. That's why it's good that he's the subject of our agenda and it's good that he shows clear intentions. So, if we had an orderly system of what, where, whose, whose, whose, whose, whose memory, can be established, what have they been removed and about what and who decides to know what and where there will be a memorial where we celebrate those who have died from us today and then high-value reasons. What's wrong with this law? The way it was defined that the memorials would be raised by free wars. Assuming that we all know what Serbia's Liberation Wars were, it was Serbia, it was the principality, it was within the Kingdom, it was part of SFRY or SRJ, but you simply have observations. And probably for most of the terrible wars of seven, which Serbia had every five years, some war for the 20th century, we did well and moved on, as we are. So it's not good because we have a lack of answers to an important question, which we lost in the 1990s, in which wars we won, which of these wars were liberating, so that under this law could be the subject of anyone who decides about the memorials. I am again glad that Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic is here because she knows that I may have too many emotions and too harsh words from our former friends in the coalition and people from her party and mine, resented that there is no clear list of people who died in the wars of the 1990s, regardless of whether they are members of the security forces, the military, the police and that there is no civilian list. Well, some people at the ministry said, we did that job. I apologized to them because it was that you didn't have a public list of people, that you didn't have a monument, that you didn't have a memorial, that you didn't have a memorial, people who died in the '90s, but it's a good thing that you had in the ministries people who took care of their business and kept records. If this law helps us find an answer to the question that we have lost, in which we won the wars of the 1990s, and how we will repay the people who have suffered in those wars, because they don't care whether those wars were liberating, whether they were not involved, whether they were wars in which no one has lost, no one has won, it's the first time I've heard them answer my question. These are dead people who died in their duties or died as civilians. We owe them. Their lives and their deaths. So, if it will serve to bow down to any memorial on which the names of these people will be, then that law of ethics will move on to the ethics of responsibility. If it doesn't work, then it will remain on the level of ethics of good intentions to exchange myths, about long ago times, the paces are about when there was heroism, humanity and heroism between us. I think there is now, but we've missed self-respect and we're having a hard time building it now. When it comes to self-respect, it is a myth for which I bind a comment on the second law, which also paints good intentions. I find it necessary to pass a regulation regarding seasonal workers. Simply, these people are somewhere in the deleted space, the margin of various laws, exposed to every kind of injustice, because there is no one to protect them, and even so, in terms of social groups, are among the people who are meant to have neither, you know, knowledge in high places, so that they solve their work problems, nor have enough money for an even decent life. In that sense, the regulation on seasonal workers is fine. You should've brought it. When we read the careful provisions that this law will change the life of seasonal workers, unfortunately I see one ill-hidden intention and I hope I am wrong, I sincerely hope I am wrong, and this ill-hidden intention of this law is to change the statistics of the unemployed in Serbia. It's our soul's fault if we do it for 50,000 jobs. Why is this bad intention called good intentions read? Because I watch what happens to me if I'm a seasonal worker who's here to pick blueberries. I have an oral agreement with the employer, I have no guarantee that my profits will be paid, there is an obligation to confirm that I exist and that I have worked. The state, society and government and this assembly will only see that certificate. He won't see anything else. They won't see me, they won't see if I got that 20,000 dinars for work or not, they won't see if my rights have been violated. They'll see confirmation. I just have to tell you, preciously, I have to be against it. I've already shared my position here that I'm against that repetitive narrative that we don't have jobs, we need to make jobs, there's no work. That's not true. He's got work to do. The slaves had work to do, every day, all day. Women have work to do, all day long. It's not a job problem. Earnings are a problem. I'm sorry that on this law as well as any other, which concerns the rights of people who work, we don't want to talk about profits, because when you establish that value ideology, there's no job, there's no job, it's gonna be worse, there's no oral agreement, 20,000, it can be worse. I have to be against whoever the government is, whoever the opposition is, because politics isn't about being worse. It's simple, see, that's what we live for. The policy is that it can be better. So, will this law provide 60,000 seasonal workers with basic rights, security and payment of contributions, that remains for us to see. I would be happy if I were to make a mistake in my assessment and apologize to Minister Djordjevic, the Prime Minister and you if it turns out that this does not affect the data the RZS will give on the statistics of the unemployed. If it does, then we won't have a problem, because the government doesn't care what I think about how bad it is. Why do I think it's bad that you don't care if I'm right? Because we've heard from the minister a variety of figures correctly, from the number of those who are in the gray zone, seasonal workers, over the number of unemployed farmers and others, very eloquently. But we haven't heard a key figure, which is why we're passing the law, which is a reduction in the grey economy. We haven't heard how much the grey economy is going to be reduced if you're going to register all season workers. We've heard that their percentage is currently almost 20% in total. Twenty percent of what? That percentage I recorded. Said Minister 20.8% of the grey economy. 70,000 people, to give them a thousand euros, can't make 20% of the gray economy, however you turn. Seasonary workers are nowhere, nor in Serbia the key problem of the grey economy. No reported work in general is, of course. If they confirm that the oral agreement pays them to reduce that gray economy, I repeat, I will say - I was wrong, this law has no bad intention of cosmetics, such as working surveys, reducing the number of unemployed. Why do I think it's legal to work? It's not legitimate to work, but legally it is. Each government will try half its mandate to show its results as brightly as possible. You'll never hear a critic in me because you're doing it. What else are you going to do, but in half your term to yell – this is great, it's great, it's great! It's not good when there's only pulsism that says everything's great. That doesn't work for anyone, or the government that promotes their results. Why am I saying that? Because I'd be glad to have someone hear me, so this Assembly will start doing what the Constitution is for, and that's that we have a dialogue on paying for seasonal workers' contributions to reduce the grey economy and do good to them and do good to the funds, and we've never talked here that every employee in Serbia by 40 years of working hours 34 000 euros has been paid to the Health Fund. I have calculated to give birth to four children with my will and joy, I have one operation and I have spent seven thousand euros for now and I hope that I will no more euros until I die, and I have already given the euro and the euro. So, it's not about -- catch the employer to give you confirmation, but it's about -- the lack of dialogue here. What happens to 34 thousand euros each of us who is being paid into the Health Fund? How do you manage that money? For the Pension Fund, 40,000 euros each. We've had the populism I've been against here, I'll be, and I'll be here and in Europe, that there's got to be an extension of the job, because there's no one to earn a pension. The life span in Serbia is 72 years for a man, 77 years for a woman. Now they're up to 65. The intention, fortunately, has given up the government, as far as I know, to extend to 67. I'll tell you how I read that law to come to the congregation, like I read about men working up to 65, and on average they live 72, if you're kind enough to die in a workplace, because we lost your money in a pension fund somewhere. It's not a mistake of this government, it's not my fault, it's not your fault, but it's the state of things in Serbia that we don't want to talk about. Instead, we are talking about seasonal workers with a story that the certificates they will have will make them work more justly, make better profits, be paid more honestly and be socially, medically secure and have what every worker should have. The last law I have any objections to is the Financial Support Act for families with children. There's no reason, I mean ideological, political or personal, however you like, not to participate in a good idea and reasonable issues in dialogue on how to help your family with children. I absolutely don't see anyone who should say that – it shouldn't be done because we're organized into society so that the state has sectors that help all social groups in age, half, by employment, whatever you want, because we're organized in the country. If we live in a country so no one cares how the other lives, then it's not a state or it is, but it's called a captured state and it's not very useful for the development of society. So, I'm at the beginning of any solution that will mean that we started to think with respect and care about what kind of society our children will grow up in. It's more important to me than how much you get for your first child. Is that a friendly society towards children? I don't think so. Not according to old people, not to children, and for God's sake, after this debate, we see neither women. I think it's a bigger problem than whether it's going to be 10 years per 12,000 a month, 15,000 or it's going to be five years, but it's still not a topic that interests anyone in Serbia, as important as I think it is. I consider it both important and legitimate. What are the shortcomings of this law in that case? There are no shortcomings in the provisions themselves. If you have money in your budget, and it's calculated there is, then it's going to be a payoff and it's going to be a first, second, third and fourth children. Why do I say if there's money? Because I am part of a family of four members and I am one of the 17,131 families with four children in Serbia. Our 17,131 decided to have four children. We do. If it was all from the beginning and we'd do it again. So it's not about whether you have money for us 17,000 families. You don't have what you have, when you have a family with a lot of kids, it doesn't have a price. It's just worth it. I'm not saying that because I think that this money that's now made up is too small, it's not well measured. I'm talking about how many people in Serbia have four children, 90s and some thousands of families with three children. It's the number I'm talking about. They're living people, men and women. If we really move our society to become friendly to children, to family, not myth, not pulsism, not drilling into breasts and imaginary words that are completely meaningless, and leaving families unhappy in violence, leaving women humiliated, leaving old people in a situation where I ask my peer, because I'm at age when his parents die, when I ask – when you see Mom, and he says – he's in a home, I don't ask - where is he, I ask – when did you see her? So that's a much more serious problem to me than how much of a budget you're going to estimate that I need a family. What is wrong with following this law is no good and it has happened again in this room, which has turned into a populist attitude about women's tasks to be born. Let's forget it. Let's all forget it. The child is the result of the agreement between men and women and women decide to give birth until the moment of conception. No one has to give birth to a child and you can't exempt a man from responsibility for conception. But you must not allow any man to decide on the freedom of choice for women because of myths and empty pulsism. It's inadmissible in the 21st century. Inadmissible. You must allow no woman to decide with myth and empty rhetoric and pulsism on free choice for women. If you take those two things off this law, then we'll understand what I'm criticizing. Not the provisions of the law, I would have designed differently, of course, but it is your right, but the atmosphere that has followed and what is the incentive of birth and what is a natal policy and the lack of a complete attitude that every woman has the right to choose. The right to choose is to have four children, the right to choose is to have no child, the right to choose is to have one child, the right to choose is to live alone, the right to choose is the basic human right, to own your life, your choices. If we continue with the rhetoric of what all women are and where it's written and how it's been for centuries, not that we're not going to have more talent, you'll only have the growth of enmity in society towards women, children, old people, towards those who are silent and will not use pulsism, mythical dictionary and all that is otherwise a picture of the language used and when it comes to seasonal workers and when it comes to families where you want to encourage birth and when it comes to what kind of monuments, memorials, who we're going to remember and why in our society. I have a few amendments to the laws without the hope that I'll be able to discuss the amendments, because it's popular here that one member is done, but I'd really like you to look at the amendments because they're reasonable and they can do good to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40466	Thank you. Here you go. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40467	Serbia has waged defence wars and more than 6,000 memorials are related to the event of these wars. Over 650 memorials in 44 countries in the world are related to the period as well. Just data that might not be bad to keep in mind when we talk about the subject and the law that's coming today. On the other hand, MP Comic is indeed a talented and quality MP, which no one will ever dispute, but I believe that her fears about the Law on Seasonal Workers cannot be realized because the tendency was absolutely not what she was afraid of, but everything she said was good in the law. Indeed, when it comes to the Law of Financial Support for the Family, I could say that the law has no tendency at all for any moment, nor a hidden intention to force a woman to give birth. The state is obliged to create as many conditions as possible for a woman to be stimulated to make a decision about achieving what she needs and certainly those mothers who have four, three children, two, one child knows best. So I don't think this law has a secret tendency that a woman has to have a baby, that she should do it for the state. On the contrary, I think it potentifies women's right to know everything she needs to know about family planning, that, in accordance with modern scientific and professional achievements, she actually has one educational level that will help her make a partner or a better decision, and I think she's one of the most elemental human rights, the right of women to make a decision about when she's going to be a mother and when she's going to form a family and with how many members. So I really can't just agree that the law somewhere because of that pulsism gets the sound of that legal substance that makes a woman give birth. At no time did we intend to do so, and at no time do we think that strengthening the party's relationship to support different professional and medical procedures in biomedical forms of fertilisation by developing all those institutes and institutions that deal with raising the level of knowledge from the domain of public health and reproductive health tends to make women have to give birth. He doesn't have to do anything. He absolutely doesn't have to do anything. It is good that the state, that units of local self-government simply think in their programmes about service, partnership, educational activities that naturally go parallel to the financial measures that are on the agenda today, and the tendency somehow to impose thinking that only financial measures are not enough, so of course they are not. But today we're talking about a set of laws regarding financial giving to families, or raising child standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40468	Thank you. Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40469	Dear MPs, respected Mrs Comic, before I look back at seasonal employment simplistically – Serbian citizens are not slaves and whether or not there is work, their will is whether they want to or do not want to work. It's a decision of each and their constitutional right whether they want to use it or not. It is our job to create jobs for them and give them the opportunity to work in accordance with the education they have and if they want to work abroad to protect all their rights, as our citizens to protect them there and try to ensure that they have equal rights as those citizens in those countries. Our mission as Government is primarily to create new jobs, and on the other hand it is to work in vacant jobs and where people are missing to try retraining, with the National Employment Service to do something to try to get through the requalification and prequalification project to give people the opportunity to get to work. Also, given that technology is going very quickly, that some people who are currently working, and that's what we are in the last change that was in December of the month, and that's what we're doing now, that even to some employees, we're giving them the opportunity to requalified to stay in their jobs, to be better, to have a greater impact, and to make them more profitable. Various methodologies exist when it comes to the gray economy. I took the one that took, when I pointed out that 28.8%, or it's about 26%, but it's something about five percentage points less than it was before, or in 2012, and we, of course, tend to it. The gray economy is killing our country, denying people everything they need. You mentioned investing in a health and pension fund and you know exactly what the money is spent on, you can't spend it past the law and you know where it's headed. So it's not directed to anyone on the side, it's directed only to our citizens, on the one hand, to provide maximum health care, and on the other hand to secure pensions. You know yourself that the system that was not exactly in its best condition when it was inherited and that a lot of that and a lot of trouble exists when it comes to the pension fund, where we, every year, manage to reduce what the state gives to the pension fund. We are now, in half a year, about 13 billion less withdrawn when it comes to the pension fund, which means that the state has the result that, on the one hand, employment and everything that is paid into the pension fund, allows us to save, that is, that money instead of going into retirement, goes into something else. We see that these are mainly investments, because it returns multiple times, raises our country's rating, raises our country's credit rating, allows for larger gross domestic product, greater employment, on the other hand, and provides the possibility for our citizens to live better. There's also an increase in wages and pensions, and we want some of the money to certainly focus on our citizens being able to spend, to have more consumption, because it's also being painted in their better material position. When you said seasonal employment, you know, to this day we have nothing. We have the possibility that seasonal employment, that whoever hires seasonal workers, will do it in a way that will hire them on temporary-temporary business. No one guarantees that it will come true at all, it's a contract and some contractual obligation that exists with them, where the administration and everything that follows such simple work is very complicated for the employees who engage, pulling a lot of space. You know we're going to reduce administration, parafiscal intrusions, etc. We watched to isolate a group of our people, our workers, who work in simplified jobs, who will have many others, and not only those, the privilege, but also those who hire them, to do so in a simpler way. We've provided the possibility primarily to make it a simplified application, that certainly whoever makes the oral agreement, as you say, that he can then request a written agreement, be paid at the end of the day, and he can now see on the portal whether he's registered or not. So he can react immediately. The law predicted that his minimum earnings would be 143 dinars per hour. It is simplified and cheaper to pay taxes and contributions, not removed from the National Employment Service records, does not lose social assistance, does not lose any cash compensation. So we've given these people the opportunity to do something without losing other privileges. So there's no dilemma about it, there wasn't any desire to take them off the record, get rid of them, and have fewer donations. On the contrary, we want to get them into the system, start working and give them a chance where they can, where they want, have some extra money. It was the idea of this law. Is he the best? Probably not, but it's better than what we had, and we had nothing. He'll show time and we'll see how it works. I believe that there will certainly be an amendment and an addition to the law, because we want to keep up with what it should look like and how it should work best, and in that sense only when things start to happen on the ground, we'll figure out where we're possibly wrong. I'm telling you, it is our desire to change that law in some cycle. The law will come into force from January 1st. Since seasonal affairs will be only mid-Next year, we may be going with a change and a supplement in the second half of next year, but we'll know that. Without having vanity or anything right now, to claim that this is the best in the world, that we have done and that we are sinless. We probably didn't, but we're trying to do something to this group of people, to give these workers the opportunity and what they didn't have until yesterday, and that's to be reported, to check that they've been reported and that we can act as a labour inspector, that we can punish those who didn't. It's the idea of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40470	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40471	I hope we understand each other, so let me just add why I'm saying we're missing him, and obviously there won't be any dialogue on why you think that little contribution to retirement and healthcare will help. I voted three times to pay out of Serbia's budget for non-existent pension contributions. Twice as the ruling coalition, once as an opposition, for a total of nearly 500,000 people – 2001, 2003 and 2005. We still have people who don't have an internship connected because of unpaid contributions from back then. Every time I ask, let's go to the congregation and talk about where your money is, who's responsible? So all sorts of wise men, and the power and the opposition, said to me, "You do not understand; it is politics." It's not politics. It's a tolerance for irresponsibility, it's -- they had good intentions, so they spent the pension fund, they had good intentions, so they spent the health fund, so we're not going to spend it with people now. Minister, until the day we sit here and talk about the health and pension fund and the equal rights of employees and those who pay the pension fund, we will live in the ethics of good intentions and there will always be someone skilled who will spend money without responsibility from these funds. That's why I'm talking about what's missing, and knowledge and will and desire to really change our approach. And once, if it were and were, if we had such an approach, then we could also defend more strongly the other rights of seasonal workers and all other workers than we do with this law. I repeat, I would very much like to make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40472	The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a lot of topics that are diverse within one item of the agenda, and this is not good, every time we draw attention to it. There must have been at least four groups here. We don't understand why you didn't single out at least this draft decision to amend the RIK members, when you know that it would certainly go without debate, but, well. You voted, now we're going to talk about what we can and how much time we have. As for the Law on War Memorials and Amendments and the addition of the Law on Fundamental Rights and Rights of Soldiers of Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters, these are certainly topics that are very interesting for SRS MPs, for our party that advocates solving all these problems, but these proposals will be discussed below in the principle debate. About these other suggestions a few sentences, as far as possible. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, etc., you passed this Law in 2015 and it has been very little time to notice that something was wrong and that's exactly what we're talking about. Every time we talk about bill proposals, we draw attention to how often you come to the National Assembly with half-completed or inadmissible laws, and that is why you have a problem like this. So you've passed the law yourself, and now you have to change it, but it's just technical changes, nothing fundamental in this law has changed, but you've had to do it. The Law on the Employment of Foreigners, too, changes and additions unlike this previous law, you passed this in 2014, and then in 2017 changed and SRS MPs invested, submitted an amendment, which had just shortened this deadline from 10 to 7 days. You didn't accept that amendment, and here we are now discussing it as amendments and amendments to the law. So be kind, pay attention to what the MPs say. We SRS MPs have always been serious and responsible people and our amendments are always meaningful. You may sometimes not like what we write, but when it comes to legal form, then you really should listen to us. The law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs, there has been a lot of talk about this proposal, not that this law should not be required, but we would not be giving it that importance as you have tried to present today, including MPs who have talked about it for a long time and not just you government representatives. It's kind of sad to say that this law is actually a fight against the gray economy, and what does this law essentially apply to? Who are these people who work seasonal jobs and what are seasonal jobs? I'm talking about the highest number. These are people who have been out of work in those theft privatisations since 2000, who are 50 years old and who can't get back to work and who are going to pick raspberries, pick cherry, pick pots, pick fruit, etc. That's what you say most, and you say when you regulate them with the law, the treasure of us, the lack of the gray economy, and the gray economy that blooms, and you know it well. This is the least of the problems within that gray economy. One of the ministers said in response to one of the MPs, that this law protects the fundamental rights of these people. No, the fundamental rights of these people were first not to get fired, not to be sold out by companies at a time in burasser privatisations that those who have since 2000 have taken over the power not to convert hotel locations factories, today mostly hotels and mega-markets nothing at the sites of former factories. It was then that the fundamental right of these people was violated, and since then, unfortunately, no government has treated them so that they have made a real effort and that these people have found a job. This law is pretty much, when it's law, now it's a proposal, it's pretty inapplicable. You know, it's nice, digitization, portals, reporting, but do you know what the structure of people in villages is? Do you know that this business, agriculture, is done by people who are 60, 70 and over, and that these people don't have the ability to access the Internet, that these people don't know or don't, that many people don't have, that there aren't networks, that they can't report up to 10.00 o'clock to someone who's come to knock out fruit. So what we're saying is not banalization, but this is the largest part of what this law applies to. Also says Minister Djordjevic -- we are not sinless, we certainly have mistakes, so next year in the second half of the year we will probably have amendments and additions to this law. So you're bringing it in in the middle of the season and you're already announcing changes during the next season. It doesn't make any sense. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution, you know, this law since it was passed in 2004, so it was changed in 2009, and we claimed back then in 2004, that this law would not make it possible, that this was just a dead letter on paper, and so it is. There's no record of what's really going on under this law, how many of these problems have been solved, how the problems have been solved. There is a fundamental problem and he is not in dispute resolution, the basic problem is in the Labour Law. You know that according to a court ruling someone can be returned, legally, to work, but the Labour Act says – the employer doesn't have to accept it, but pays him a double or I don't know how much of the amount the court has given him, so that the disbursement of these problems even now in a situation where whenever many of these private entrepreneurs and companies who are here from abroad, they say – they can't even organise themselves, how then, and you here are predicting some representative trade unions that will represent these employees. It's just something that's not applicable. You may have an obligation on that agenda to bring something like this, but my people, you bring what is obligation. This is where you extend your deadlines from 15 to 60 days. You're completely neglecting the fact that every dispute in the employment relationship is an emergency. Your working disputes in courts last five, six, seven, eight years, mobbing disputes last five, six, seven, eight years. So let's go a little bit into real life. It's nice, this is all that's written, but a little bit into real life. Before I devote a little bit more time to this law on financial support with children, I must say that you have done something good, you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS supports it, and that is the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on social assistance. Whenever you have a proposal like this that concerns co-operation with the Russian Federation, you will have our public support. Now this law on financial support with children, i.e. the bill, changes and additions. He's the most talked about here. The law is from last year, and we are changing it this year and this says that this law does not have a systematic approach to solving the problem of population policy. No, you said Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic earlier – now we're talking about this, so we don't know when about this, so I don't know when you have to propose to the government first. This problem must be fully considered and fully through the law to be resolved. This is one step, with certain flaws, a good step, but this is not the way to solve this serious problem of ours. I listened to you on one television this morning, you said what we all know, but you said that, I didn't like the way you explained that young people, the poll you had, young people in Serbia finished college, I mean most from the IT sector and medicine, so you said, you want to leave Serbia, you say – we invested in their education and they went away again. Then you say peaceably, well then let them be our ambassadors in the world. That's bad. We can't forbid anyone to leave, but we have to create conditions, this is what you said about it -- but we have to create conditions for these young people to stay in Serbia, have children, create a family, and it can't do it this way. You know, there's a lot of families who can't wait for this law to get that first, second, third, fourth child, we don't just know what's gonna happen if someone gets a fifth child. Will it be, since it's not desirable for the state, should it be undesirable for the family? What kind of relationship would they have with that child, then, would it be some ugly duck in the family? So, regardless of this material help, which is needed and which will be useful to many families, Mrs. Djukić Dejanović please excuse me, I know you are interested in this and that you want to participate in the debate. So, only this financial aid creates the impression that the state is making a social category out of the family, and that's not good. I don't think there's a man, or there's a very small number of people, who accept and that's easy to make out of their family a social category, so the state is going to give a little bit of this kid, a little bit of what, for this many years for this, so much for that, and somehow it's going to get past that. It's not an emergency, is it? The urgency is to create conditions for the formation of normal families, that young people can form a family in both the village and the city. Recently, a law on special conditions has been passed here to address the housing needs of the police and the military. We said then that the state that has money, we listen even though we haven't had a final account in 18 years just once, we hear that the state has money. If there is, let it invest them in the future, and that is exactly what the future is, therefore, favourable loans to address the housing needs of young people, but also in the village and in the city and those living in the village. Safe work doesn't need mothers, we've been here listening to some fellow MPs, not mothers, not fathers, young people don't want to be social cases. They go to school, they educate, they want to be able to live normally, to function normally, to have a secure job, to get that job decently paid, so that no one else can get, as small as that guaranteed profit, that minimally called. Do you know that millions of people receive this minimum wager and what's the worst five to 10,000 they have to pay the employer back in cash? So there's a lot you have to do before it just comes to giving someone some money to be happy with. Accommodation in preschool institutions, that's also a problem. Did you take care of it and when will you begin to build kindergartens more seriously in the villages? We want young people to stay in the villages. How's it going? Why would a child in the village be denied a kindergarten, a preschool facility, why would this in town have an advantage and that wouldn't be there? Young people in the village who conclude marriages, who have children, why don't they get these favourable housing loans, that maybe they build a nice family house on their father's house or grandfather's house? We can't make that kind of difference if we want to solve this issue this way. You know, we've been listening to a lot of things these days and in some previous period, and I guess everybody's agreeing to the government, talking about the low birth rate, the population policy, that the government is going to strategically solve it, no one is normally against it, of course, but then in that desire to court the government or the president of the state, then let's say the MP, and now I'm asking you, when I finish this sentence, to see if it doesn't exist in the government, something that we don't know yet, the MP says that he has knowledge that there should soon come here a law on migrants that the congregation majority will adopt, to settle our relaxed villages and say to that fellow MP, that it's good and because of the low birth rate. So, we're not going to change the demographic image, we're not going to solve it by moving migrants to these uninhabited places to raise birth. It's very, first, ugly, second, it's something that can't happen. So, since it's a member of the government, maybe he knows something we don't know. It's really important that you tell us that too if you have any knowledge of it. Families with children, the problem is families without children, the problem is the birth of the first child, and I don't mean now in medical terms, but also when it comes to solving these financial problems, the problem is that young couples give birth to the first child, and then when they're born first, they kind of dare to get born second. So this problem has to be solved basically and you can't tie this up, first, for I don't know, up to 10 years. If the state accepts to finance the second, third, fourth, first child, it must finance it until its age, co-finance it, finance it, or the family provides funds, but the state adds, what it adds must be either until the age or until the end of schooling. What are you gonna do about someone who's got three kids and you're gonna give him up to the age of 10 of those kids, and then what? It's expensive school, it's high school, it's costing more than basic, it's collecting clothes, it's raising kids, thank God. So this is a good start, a good idea, but it's not really a good solution. Another proposal, we've intervened with the amendments mostly on all these things I'm talking about, but unfortunately, we won't be able to discuss the amendments for a known reason why we're going to discuss three amendments on the memorials, which is not less important, but not this way. Don't tie this law to the application of the law for July 1st. If we have information that since 2017 there is a serious surplus in the budget, then Article 197. The constitution allows the so-called so-called Constitution. retroactivity. At least to apply it as of 1 January 2017, it will have more effect, and according to what we hear in public, the state of money has only to schedule them nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40474	Thank you. First, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40475	Yes, I thank you for the explanations and for the findings that say that the first step is good and that there are some illogicalities. Well, I could agree, because it's a well-trained opposition MP who has to make remarks, but what it is is that when Mrs. Radete finds that the first step is good, we in power have reason to be satisfied. In fact, financial support in itself is really one measure, and on many occasions I talked about it. But last year, only 130 million incentive funds, and now with 500 million incentivising units of local self-government in their midst, are making priorities on whether people from 18 to 42 will invest in residential construction, in starting work, in housing capacities at preschool age. It was this pilot project that we had last year that essentially reflected the correctness of everything that you suggested here, and what we now intend to apply to an incomparably larger number of municipalities, because with 130 million you could cover the elemental needs, on these issues, only 15 municipalities, and now with three times more funds, at least three times as many municipalities. A comment earlier was one of the MPs that 90 units of local self-government applied last year and that only 15 received, or received, funds. You know, it has been a great success for us to discuss this issue at 11 local assembly sessions last year and that 90 units of local self-government have appointed a person who will deal with population policy or a council on population policy, that at all these topics that we are talking about today have been addressed by 90 units of local self-government, since by the last year there was simply no formal possibility, nor has anyone initiated an intensification of the visibility of the subject of population policy and demographic issues. Asking whether it is possible for all parents who have become parents of the second, third, fourth child since 1 January 2017 to make donations, it is indeed possible that since 25 December 2017, this is quite possible and that the sustainability of this financial measure in the period from now on and over the next ten years is quite possible, because it is estimated that financial trends will go towards improvement and that not only macroeconomic stability, but also more investment and growing employment on their part will contribute, which is again in line with the suggestions that you have made when it comes to migrants, at this point it has not occurred to anyone to fix the demographic situation in Serbia, because they themselves do not want to stay in Serbia. As you know, we are a passing destination. What's reality at this point is that they are heading towards the countries of Western Europe. I am proud, probably all of you, that we have been to those who are going through such life circumstances, in which migrants have been, through Serbia, at the service to ease the suffering they are going through. These are mostly questions you've asked about this law and I just think we're on very similar waves. Believe me, if you were in a position to propose measures, you'd have to, because a distance of 7,000 miles begins with that first step, you'd have to start from a step. In parallel with this measure, it is working to intensify the repair of the atmosphere not only in business, but also in financial entities and in public enterprises to coordinate work and parenting. Socially responsible employers are encouraged, firstly this year through awards, and next year through the acquisition of certificates that will give them certain advantages in their business steps. These are the same procedures that last, and we can't do it over our knees, but we just have to measure well to do it in accordance with the good practices of other countries and the goals that we all want to talk about here. When it comes to some other measures, I have to say that unfortunately, there are still a lot of ignorance about population policy, that underage pregnancy is a big problem for us, that many families plan to interrupt pregnancy, that these are topics on which other resolution ministries work and prepare certain acts. You just can't bring all the acts right now, because the nature and goals that we have on our plan to correct Serbia's demographic future is such that if we haven't done anything for more than 60 years, and now we've started to do it, surely we can suffer very well-founded criticism, but it's certain that we started the story in one way that, with more visibility and making those first steps, we have a chance of reducing otherwise creepy demographic indicators that characterize us. Otherwise, as far as research is concerned, the student population, 11,000 students. It is indeed the fact that the largest number of our best students who are outside Serbia with outstanding professional achievements, which speaks of the quality of education in Serbia. In that sense, I said that we might have to think in another way. Not only did they go there, but could we make some connections, joint projects with those people who, in addition to their professional achievements, certainly have a strong emotional thread towards their country of origin, towards their Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40476	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40477	I would just briefly supplement some things with Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. First, when you said that we were changing the law, the law only predicted that by sublegal acts of financial effect we would predict, this law makes it enforce, i.e. installing it into the law itself. The idea of this change is to make it a legal obligation, not some sublegal act, and in that sense we went on to amend and supplement the Financial Support Act to families with children. When you talk about some positive experience and you support the Social Security Agreement with the Russian Federation, I have to tell you that when we negotiated social security, we very quickly reached an agreement, in the final round of talks. That's when I talked to Minister Topilin about the demographic image and what the Russian Federation did in ten years to reverse the wheel demographicically in Russia. They had, if you compare Serbia and Russia, a very similar problem, 20 times the size of us, 20 times the population, 20 times the negative natural growth. We talked to them about how we could do what we did here in some way and in some way implemented and on their advice on what it should look like. You probably didn't know that fact, but if you knew, you probably wouldn't have had this many objections to this. We've seen certainly all the positive experiences that exist and in what way one of the most important things in the state is to change, which is that we just have more children. They've been able to change that for ten years. I believe that since we're using other people's experiences, we'll certainly be able to do it sooner. I think that's what our country and our society need. When you talk about help, we don't give help, this is an incentive to have a baby. So that's one fundamental difference. We have an incentive for the first child who is 100,000 dinars, he was 39,000, and now he's 100,000. When it comes to social assistance, it deals with the second sector in the ministry, I have talked about it today, and we want to change the way and the attitude towards social giving, and to make it both more transparent and more efficient and more just in the future. That's why we're doing social cards, and that's why it's going to be in front of the Assembly and social card law. When you talk about the seasonal employment law and say it doesn't make sense, I'll tell you it makes sense. We delayed the application of this law for six months because we needed a law that would take effect in order to do a sublegal act, to do an application and to be able to do training, not only by employers, but also by a little media to cover that people could be familiar with how and in what way they could verify whether they were registered or not. Also, in the local offices there will be people who will report instead of farmers who don't understand or who don't have computers. So we've tried in every way that every excuse that exists right now is that there are great costs, that it's a great administration, that it's a massive administration, that we try every way we can simplify it and try to get them out. I didn't say that we're going to change anyway, but it's logical that the law that's completely new, which should be revived, is probably going to have some of its shortcomings, and we don't want to be someone who's going to convince you that something works and works unless it works. What is a message to the citizens is that we will certainly change, so that citizens will be better off, to protect their rights and to make sure that everything they work for on the other side is paid for them. I'll only go back to financial support for families with children. Minister Djukic Dejanovic said that we certainly have a series of measures that we do and that we want to do. We didn't mention that we wanted to include everything in this. We appeal to the church and we talked to the church, we talked to SANU, we need to change our approach to education, we need to change our approach to culture, but we also need to work on a media campaign. You know, I'm going to tell you one thing that gets into our eyes, maybe unconsciously and indirectly is a message. The message today for a happy marriage and a young couple on our television screens is that they sit alone on a bed and eventually have a dog. We have to change that. These commercials indirectly send a message about what a happy family is. Happy family isn't two young people with a dog, maybe they should have a dog but they should have three or four kids. We should be sending such a kind of message, because I think it's the right thing to do, and I think it represents the happiness of a family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40478	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40479	I'll start with this last one. You're right, Minister Djordjevic, do what you say, do the campaign. It's you who can make a good video on TV and cover those video banks that advertise two young people with a dog. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I did not use the experience of the opposition MP in this debate, but rather the political programme of the SRS. All of what you and this law and these laws have overlooked and what you normally do under this campaign of population policy, which is in line with the SRS programme, of course, we won't say that's good because it's another part of the government. We want this problem solved and solved as soon as possible and as best possible. We understand that, it hasn't been for a long time, and now it's started, etc., but you've lost a lot of, and you've actually lost a lot of time just in that story, announcements, strategies, etc. This is the first thing more concrete. You shouldn't have missed it, I'm going back to that apartment law, you shouldn't have missed it to start with young people who want to stay in Serbia, to create a family. You're talking about socially responsible employers. We're not saying there aren't any, but believe me, there are a lot of socially irresponsible people. We have a call, but of course no one should mention his name, a woman who works in a chain of trade, a pregnant woman, has agreed to work only this afternoon because she's fit because of her husband and only because she's made some remarks about working in that facility where she worked, she's been told from tomorrow morning you're going to shift or get a book. There are those, but unfortunately the inspections either don't have enough or they don't want to work, mostly the inspectors don't do their job well. There would be more answers, but unfortunately, you can do as much as you want, and we'll only be two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40480	Thank you, Radeta. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40481	I thank the chairman. First I'm going to express one protest the way this session is scheduled. Repeated practice, it was scheduled yesterday during the morning while it was a day for voting on the agenda that was at the previous session, so the MPs really didn't have enough time to prepare for all 14 points as many today on the agenda. Unfortunately, and it seems to me that the focus of the debate will remain most on one law, possibly two, but the other, let's say 12 laws will remain practically unfinished. I express the protests that this debate is united again since we have one of the laws that was in the united debate, when there was a debate on the budget in December of the month and when I face strange circumstances besides those thirty points that were at the time in the united debate, we were able to somehow open up the topic and talk about this law in the plural. It's a law on financial support for families with children, and with that, I've made some amendments, and now I've sent them again, and in the meantime I've submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the law so that we can try to change some things. I would like to point out that I really think that this law is affirmative, positive and that it will bring about something good and that any criticism on my part in December of the month in the debate with the budget united or today, you understand as well-intentioned and the only goal is for the law to come out of this assembly to be better for the citizens of our country. In that sense, I put an objection to one, which is that women who have a working relationship for 12 months, were then changed from 12 to 18 months, and I demanded that the measure be returned, because it is simply the situation in the state, whether they want it or not, are very discriminated when they come to a job interview in the most productive period of their life. So it's no problem for a woman to realize this if she has 18 months of employment for four children somewhere, but it's a big problem for her to realize that when it comes to the first child. So pretty women are on job interviews very often asked when they plan to start a family, how many children they have, whether they are married or not. We see that here too very often such questions are raised, so we just got a suggestion, what is the look of a desirable family, and what is not, whether it should have a dog or not or three or four children, not leaving it as a possibility for families to choose for themselves. It's just that some commercials are gonna motivate them to have kids or not, I don't think it's the subject of debate. Why was I talking about this? Because the families of that period were characterized as a kind of maternity mafia, they were burdened with having plans that they wanted to damage the state and that these plans were implemented and that they had to increase those 12 months to 18 months, which I don't think was true. I still have to explain the situation again today from that period and because that was why these women were put in an unfavourable position. At that time, employers were paid money for maternity leave, and then they were obliged to pay that money to their families. You have to be aware, since I come from the private sector, that this money is more than often, and I have a situation, it's a female collective, so I have a situation where I regularly have a country for every maternity or pregnant woman who has had a chance to wait at least three months. It's your interest-free loan to the state. What kind of employer today, especially an entrepreneur who comes from the order of small, medium and micro enterprises, can afford himself? So it wasn't the maternity mafia or the intention of women to take advantage of it, it was one abuse of practically a state that put the employer in an unpleasant position. This has changed in the meantime, and the good change has occurred, but the change in society has not happened. This expected change in these six months because they continue to have a situation where employers are very often openly discriminating women in job talks and asking these questions that I initially mentioned. I still think we need to get that measure back to 12 months, and I'm telling you that as an employer and as a mother. So, really, it seems to me that we're putting mothers in an awkward position if we don't return this measure to 18 months. The second measure, which was also problematic then, was again not resolved in this law, and it is mentioned that the biggest payment could be three months' earnings. It's a problem and it discriminates against women who earn more. So, sometimes this measure was read and meant that women could receive five months' wages, and now they can't but must practically fit into these three months' earnings, regardless of whether they made a lot more money before they came into a position to receive some compensation. The other thing that means that these are two discriminatory measures which, unfortunately, are not removed in these changes and additions after only six months, the second measure that has not been changed and which could have been predetermined, so let's understand that in this bill there is no financial analysis in terms of how much it will cost us the measure that we introduce, that is, the compensation that we're giving parents for the third and fourth children, but what we could predict is how many children we have at this point who don't have ten years of age, how many such children, here, Mrs. Komic just mentioned that the mother is four children, but her children are big, so she knows exactly how many mothers that have three or four children. So I think we're like a state, like. The Bureau of Statistics could run an analysis of how many families there are currently in Serbia who have three or four children and who will be subject to the provisions of this law because they will apply to children born on 1 July 2018, practically discriminate against all children and families who have children and are still not ten years old. So it seems to me that if we had some space in the budget to predict this and to bring this measure to me, so I can only predict this now, I can't say because I don't have the exact data in the explanation, there's room for this concession to be made for families that have a third and fourth child, and whose children are not more than ten years old, if we're going to put it as a limit. I also suggested that the amendment should be abolished, simply so that the children would not be discriminated against. The very provision that says that payment will be in equal monthly wars, practically over the next 120 months, would limit that rule, so I tried to describe this whole law. There's one part that, just a second to find him, which is pretty vague, and that's this article 7 that's actually closer to explaining Article 24 of the Financial Support Act to the family with children, and it says that if they pay off the rights to a parental supplement, which takes place in the months of war, the beneficiary of the right to leave the child or die, further payment of the right to the ministry's decision on social issues is interrupted. So, what am I worried about? I've been left unclear since this compensation is practically in favour of the child, so why would you deny help to children if some of these were to happen, to say, unpleasant circumstances because of all this? If this is going to be settled in the sense that you know now that you've already planned sublaws that will determine this closer, so it will be resolved, I welcome, but I'm very concerned because the provision itself is the law itself, it seems to me, the spirit of the law should be interpreted in such a way that it goes to the benefit of these children, so that they have a more successful, more beautiful and beneficial childhood. In this same article, unfortunately, we have a binding position that says that if rights are paid in the course of the parental allowance carried out in the months of the war that children are not vaccinated in accordance with the regulations in the area of blah, blah, blah, blah, and now we have the opportunity to hitchhike payment. I want, first of all, to fence myself with this attitude so that someone doesn't get me wrong that I'm against vaccination. My children have been vaccinated, and I'm very much in favour of it. The problem remains one in society, which is a very big fear of vaccination for the simple reason that the citizens of Serbia, we must assume, live in one great ignorance, as far as the vaccine concerns itself. So neither do you have any educational content on television in the sense that you can educate young parents about what it means and what it is that they have the opportunity to vaccinate their children, nor do you have a more serious public interaction between people who are against vaccination, who advocate vaccination, and that they would simply avoid any suspicion from parents who at all question whether or not the child should be vaccinated. With that in mind, given that the Constitution itself says in Article 21 that we cannot condition someone to vaccinate their child, that it would be simply discrimination in that sense. So, I would leave this as a choice of parents, and in the meantime the Government of the Republic of Serbia would do anything to educate young parents to make a good choice when they get into a situation to choose. It seems a little bit now, while I was listening to this debate, especially these last few shows and comparisons with commercials and so on, that somehow there's an impression that motherhood is being promoted as a job. It practically promotes how much money will be made by a mother who will give birth to a third and fourth child, instead of being an incentive to give birth, and in that sense I don't think the same way, as I don't think there has to be an inoculation of the matter of choice, no matter what I personally think about it, so I think the matter of choice must be that people don't come into a situation that as a way out of some economic crisis they see in being able to give birth to a third and fourth child and get some money from the state. I'm afraid it doesn't bring women into an awkward position. We need to create conditions so that these women who want to work and to achieve as mothers have the opportunity to want it because their child will have a place safe in kindergarten, because they will certainly get their benefits according to the laws that are voted here, that they will have free schooling, but free schooling, in terms of free textbooks, free of charge of some other content within the school. So, they must take this measure as part of all other measures as an incentive and wish they had a third and fourth child, and not take it as an obligation to be economical. I won't be long, I'll leave room and room for my fellow MPs. I will refer only briefly to the Law on the regulation of seasonal workers' status. This is one of those laws that I object to today's debate being united and why this law is an emergency procedure, since it takes effect in six months. So there was no need for that. The public debate ended in April. The summary came out somewhere in May. It's June today and we're voting that law. We could have delayed the adoption of this law, the vote of this law for about a few months and had enough space to have a public debate involving a number of smaller agricultural holdings, where people would first hand give us information on how they would be easier to report seasonal workers, and in their interest, the interests of workers and the interests of the state. As far as the War Memorial Act is concerned, I'll look back on it for a little while. I'll back it up. There's been a lot of quality debate, a lot of reasons for and against. All I care about is the composition of this council to deal with war memorials. I need to express one concern. Of the seven members to be present in this council, four members come from the authorities of the state administration and only one historian. I wish it were the opposite situation and we had four historians and one member coming from the state administration, and I think we're going to have to face different opinions from different historians on these issues. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40482	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40483	Mrs. Macura, first of all, it's not help, it's incentive. So it would be called financial assistance to families with children, and this is an incentive, so, financial support to families with children. Why 18 months and not 12? Because we've had abuses. In some ways, we had to be just to everyone we gave and that those who didn't deserve it did not receive extra funds. I'll explain to you what was done, since we have cases where we discovered and prevented it. Unfortunately, it's such a symbolic number of people who have abused, but it opened up the possibility of everyone doing it and because of that small number of people now we have to introduce some different measures. What's going on? When a woman finds out she's in a different state, she's in a deal with her employer, and by yesterday she was working for a salary, I don't know, 30, 40 grand, it doesn't matter, she agreed that the employer was paying 250 grand and that she was paying the rest back to him. When it's nine months past and she goes to maternity leave, she gets an average in 12 months, and even after that she shares it with the employer, because she gets a much bigger refund for 24 months, even though she's actually working for a lot less money. To prevent these abuses, we have calculated that it is minimal to do so on an average of 18 months. Also, we went one step further to see, since it was a big period, and there was a lot of maybe women who didn't work, we're going to hire them, that whatever the average of its compensation, or incentive, that is, maternity leave can't be less than the minimum income in the Republic of Serbia. When you say vaccination, the right is certainly to do what the Constitution and the law allows him to do, but here when we talk about vaccination, you first have the Health Protection Act and secondly, no one has the right not to vaccinate their child endangers the lives of other people. We must somehow prevent our children from being the victims of that small number of people who won't vaccinate. We may not be able to prevent it in total, people are opting for it, regardless of the sanctions, but we don't have to encourage and give financial resources. When you say seasonal employment, why were we doing an emergency procedure? Look, there are a lot of things we have to do by January 1st. It's only when the law comes into effect that you have a legal basis for public procurement when it comes to apps. When you do and you finish public procurement, you need an app to be done, to liven up, to do and train those people. I told you there would be not only a decision made by people who are users, but also by people who will support those farmers in the local offices. We also have one campaign to tell citizens how and how they can verify whether they are registered or not, all within the project that we are working with Norwegians now, which is "words don't work on black". The last thing, you say, was supposed to be a public debate. The public hearing was in three cities in May. You said it would be good if we had a public debate. We had a public debate on seasonal employment and it took place in three cities in May, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. So you might have had the opportunity to participate there, but I believe that if we did nothing else to make one good base to move on and that there was this segment or part that was so unspeakable and it was very complicated for these workers to try to simplify and bring people closer to it in a simple way and to make it easier for them to apply and to exercise all the rights that workers have when they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40484	Right on the line, MP Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40485	I thank the chairman. So, I agree with you that there have been abuses and I'm familiar with that myself. However, it is a very small number of maternity homes that have been inclined to do so. These could have been avoided by sending the Ministry of Labour an inspection after the maternity leave was completed and determined whether the receipts, i.e. the profits, had returned to the previous ones. No employer, especially in the private sector, can withstand that burden. So, if he increased the salary from some 30,000 to 40,000 to 250,000, as you say, or to 100,000, and expected the state to pay back and split the money or in whatever relationship he had with the employee, it could not have been a solution in the long term, and it would certainly have been discovered if you sent the inspection. It's a matter of inspection that he's doing these things right now. Because of a small number of women who were in the mood to, I say, commit the abuse of this guy, they're suffering all their families now. So I understand that you had the need for this, I understand, and that this is happening, I can't deny it because it really exists, but the problem is that there was a solution that was much more elegant, but that all the families were suffering. There is space still, this law has come in six months to change again and can come back in six months to change and to make one correction in the interest of all future families. As for the public debate, I said she was, held in April, so we read the conclusions somewhere in May. What I suggest to you is to postpone the adoption of this law, to extend the public debate to smaller agricultural holdings in which you would have a direct situation, in which you would talk to farmers if they had the opportunity to carry out the records in the manner prescribed in this law, which is by electronic means. So, I imagine some farmer on the border zone who may not even have the range of the Internet that has to do it. Among other things, you stated in the record that he must report an electronic address for himself and for the worker. So there are some things that you could get on the spot from the smaller owners in the first hand that would make the process of hiring seasonal workers easier. That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40486	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40487	First, despite the training I told you, the people will be in the local offices that will help these people, which will be able to do for them and who does not use the Internet and does not have the Internet to report seasonal workers. When you say we could have done it differently, we couldn't because you couldn't do it a little bit. I'm not a lawyer, I know a little bit of op law, but I know enough that's impossible. That's exactly what's happening because it's using this "hole in the law" and it already exists and there's nothing you can do about it. If we let that happen, I think at one point, as you say in six months, we could talk about a lot of them being abused, but by then it would be a state of harm. We'd all be in harm's way. We're not talking about money or anything. We're talking about the money of all of us, the budget of Serbian citizens who are being abused. It's not the only example. Unfortunately, there's an example where in a small number of people there's been a loss of some right and then a large number of people who really need to have some right have lost because a small number of people have been abused. It exists. Let me tell you, instead of abolishing that right, as they may have done before, so we've abolished some rights because we've seen that there will be abuses, we've tried to figure out how and how we can continue to be just more just. We've been working. Since we noticed that it could happen that the mother started, or the woman started her job not so long ago, so she stayed in a different state, to see that her average would be 18 months small, to get some minimum profit in that case and not to go below what is a minimum in the state of Serbia. We even thought about it. I'm telling you, there may be better solutions, but at this point, we haven't seen better than this, and we have to be just and try to eliminate abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40488	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40489	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, Madam Minister, the representatives of the ministries today, we are today discussing, of course, in an established practice in a united procedure on 12 laws, some are connected, some are not, but it is a practice that we are already used to. The problem is what comes from such practice and such work is about the lives of citizens in the Republic of Serbia because every law adopted here affects the creation of their lives and ambience in this country. These urgent procedures we are facing, with the unification of the debate, with false amendments, we are bringing to the point that we should be reminded by the EU of how our parliament works, and I think we should take much more care of it... I now warn you to draw to the agenda as you know and know it. ) You know, Mr. Arsic, I'm going to talk about the agenda, as I always do, but I don't understand why you won't let me say anything before I go to the agenda because others are talking about it. As for the laws that we have on the agenda today, I'm going to try to talk to you in this little time that I have about 12 legal proposals, I'm saying, at least for something meaningful... (President: That is why I warn you to talk about the agenda. And now you've confirmed that I'm right. I'll give you back these 30 seconds. ) So, first I'm going to talk about the War Memorial Act, which is the first one on the agenda, and I find it very interesting that, under this law called the War Memorial Act, it could probably have been called – and the mention of the markings. The amendments submitted by lawmakers say that the Law on War Memorial provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and then with a special reference to fiscal discipline, with a special reference to the development of the Republic of Serbia, digitalisation, implementation by 2030, stability of the dinar course, improvement of the judicial system, etc. So the Republic of Serbia lost a very large number of people in wars. In the First World War, 28% of the population died, in the second over a million victims in Yugoslavia, not to mention people who were shot in Kragujevac, in the King, and finally all of our fellow citizens who lost their lives in Kosovo. This is how you approach an important topic with a debate to completely devastate the subject and humiliate those citizens who have lost their loved ones and their ancestors and say it affects social equality, improving justice, improving medical institutions, developing health care. That's what we used to do during the previous sessions to listen. People's MPs are getting it. ) You can throw it to me, it's no problem at all, these amendments are pictures and an opportunity for your way of working and show how you see the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the law on seasonal workers or the bill on simplified employment in seasonal affairs, I'm going to talk more about this law. I also listened carefully to the minister when he explained this legislative proposal and the reason for the adoption of this law is to prevent, i.e. the reduction of the grey zone, which is 35,000 to 75,000 workers, according to the Ministry of Agriculture's assessment, and this law deals exclusively with the work of agricultural production. I've, by chance, been familiar with this law-making initiative through NALED activities for the past year, and I have to admit that I'm quite surprised that this law is nowhere near what we talked about, when we talked in NAED about the introduction of one of these laws. To be clear, every law enforcement initiative in the country is good for setting up a system. The only question is whether to go to the neck at any cost, on the nose with laws that will not be applied in practice. Why am I saying that? I also speak because, here, and today, in addition to this law, we have two more laws on the agenda, one of which came into force in 2016, the Law on Temporary Work abroad and the other, the Law on Foreign Employment, which entered into force in 2017. Both laws are equally presented as a revolutionary solution, as you now represent this law on seasonal workers, and then you change it after a year or two. Not to mention the Financial Support Act for families with children, who was adopted, respected minister, as you know, in December of last year, so six months ago, in a united discussion with the 2018 budget. Because we couldn't even talk about that law back then, you're probably changing it today after six months, but I'll talk about it later. As far as the Law on Seasonal Workers, you, this law, which will not be applicable in practice, are once again legalizing the work on black and the purpose of this law, is certainly not to regulate the seasonal engagement of workers, nor to help farmers who will hire them. It'll only have one goal and one effect, and that's the effect for the government's register. So once again, the government is holding hands in Serbia's citizens' pocket, this time to farmers, for who knows which time, because they will have to pay extra contributions to seasonal workers. It's not disputed, it wouldn't be questionable if in the past six years you've created conditions and ambience for people who deal with agriculture to be able to pay contributions to seasonal workers. In Serbia, you have 631,000 registered agricultural holdings, of which only 3,000 are legal entities and entrepreneurs, so 628,000 are small family agricultural holdings. This law actually shows how much you've alienated yourself from the people and you don't know what these little agricultural family heads look like, you don't know how hard they survive every day and don't know what this law implies for them. I do agriculture with my family, my neighbor in my village Počekovina deals with agriculture, as they do in Leskovec, Topoli, Vojvodina or anywhere. These people will not be able to comply with these legal provisions, and I will tell you later on why, nor will the state be able to achieve with this law the goal it wants, which is that workers who work in wages, if that was the primary goal, are to make contributions to social and health insurance. So, in order for you to have a farmer who is willing to endure this new imposition, I'm talking about agricultural landownership as an employer, you had to, not to cut their budget in the last six years and keep them poorer, but to help them, not to delay subsidies, not to cut subsidies, not to be less of a budget for agriculture today than six years ago, when you came to power, to hear about basic disasters and to help farmers. All of this was not in the previous period, and they are growing from year to year poorer, weaker, with no capacity to finance the workforce as they have so far financed. Of course, this is now a new imposition for them and when you translate this law into practical application, it would mean that each one of them needs to pay between 300 and 500 dinars over that journal they've been getting so far. In addition, the law stipulates that a farmer who leaves for the field at seven o'clock in the morning should plan time to report up to 10 o'clock every day to his workers working on his tax administration estate, and how, by filling out the tax returns. You say - by electronic means. Which electronic route? That shows how much you don't understand the condition farmers are in. Yeah, they're going to do that to 1,000 owners, these big and strong employers, who are already private firms and who have a bunch of employees, they're already hiring their people for permanent or otherwise, but these little ones, who are going to hit this the most, won't be able to do it. Since you have already prescribed this law from other European countries, and from Croatia, why at least you have not introduced the vouchers, as Croatia has introduced, so that they can go once a week to buy vouchers for a week and then fill in with workers working on their property. Of course, it's all gone. I can also talk about an oral agreement, which you predicted without a contract, you won't achieve anything absolutely, that the control of workers will not be possible, because what will it look like in practice? Someone took the workers to pick up his grapes, bathe his peppers, and then they come to the labour inspector or the tax administration, and they pull up the boots, and they go in the fields to chase the workers, they're going to run, etc. These inspectors, whom you don't have enough for legal persons and entrepreneurs in Serbia, do you really think they're going to go after village Ataris all over Serbia and control workers? Of course not. The other thing, when they get here, these hungry and poor farmers will come after them with them. Well, you're bringing people into another bigger problem, those inspectors who need to control the peasants, the peasants who today are supposed to fight for the ransom price of the raspberries, who should pay the diesel most expensive in the region, that there's no subsidized diesel, that needs to pray to God that it doesn't kill the city because the state doesn't have an adequate and efficient anti-urban protection system, which is supposed to pray to God that they don't flood, because we don't have a system of deforestation, because we don't have irrigation systems, who have late subsidies and incentives for a year. Here, in front of me, I have a memo from the Agency for Agricultural Payments of 5 June of this year, where the user of the funds he applied for for an incentive for that pig for 2017, that he has to complete the documentation, today, more than a year before he submitted the request. If something was wrong, where was that Agrarian Payments Authority to warn him about it earlier? So these are all the problems that say that farmers are poor, on their knees, and that this is a new imposition that you introduce to them and a new obligation, after all. The only good thing for them is that this law will in practice be completely inapplicable. Neither the state will have any effect, nor will the rewarder have any effect, nor will they give more money. If they need to give more money, it will lessen the compensation of these workers who work for them or agree to say, when the inspection comes – well, we are here, we work for free. Then how are you going to control them? They came on the phone, they help each other, they don't charge their services. So there's one law that won't have absolutely any application in practice. Finally, when we talk about it, over a billion and a half euros are due to the PIO Fund of Farmers of Serbia, those who should be employers to these and pay contributions. So now you see what kind of economic strength you're talking about. As for the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, this law, as I mentioned, is unfortunately adopted in the debate, with 30 points, where the budget was a central topic and, behold, today we are talking about it again, and we are probably going to talk about it again sometime. I want to support and commend, Minister, the initiative, because everything that is done to increase the population in Serbia is good, every measure is good, but that measure just doesn't need to be turned into a trade. Other colleagues talked about it, you said, you can't pay mothers to have children. That's the point. That this is going to be one of the measures that can deliver results, but it can't give a great result. Why? Because the overall environment in the state of Serbia, in the last six, seven years, is such that people are thinking about getting out of Serbia. Tens of thousands of people flee each year from Serbia, let alone form their families here. Just now, one of our colleagues said it wasn't our second and third kids, it was our first. Yeah, right, our problem is our first child. You said yourself that 600,000 couples don't even have their first child, they don't dare enter the family expansion process. Why? Because they have financial problems, because they don't have stable sources of income, because they don't have permanent employment, because they don't have a settled housing issue. That's the problem. It's an ambience. One law cannot raise Serbia's ethnicity, nor can it solve those problems. It can help, but others have to help. Problems, such as housing issues, unemployment, wages, food, clothing, books, kindergartens, excursions, medicines, fuel, electricity, taxes, what I've counted are basic things to pay for every family and plan to expand its family. It can't pay 300 or 400 euros, it can't be a cheap workforce to knit cables in "Jura, Leoni" or someone else's and you can say – here's a great job in "Kromberg subert" in Kruševec 2,000 people or we'll hire for a salary of 200 or 250 euros. With that salary, they can't even pay the overhead expenses they have every month, let alone plan children and expand the family. So politics is completely wrong economic here, and that's the bottom line of the problem. As Minister, I wish you success in your work, both you and Minister Djordjevic in your portfolios, but this is about a complete system of institutions and a comprehensive policy that should ultimately have results that we are seeking, if we are trying at all, and if we have the same goals at all. I said, when I listened to different exposés, different prime ministers, that I had nothing against the goals and that nobody in Serbia would, I'm sure, say that something out of those exposures was wrong. Yes, it's all good, it's just a question of what we're going to achieve and how to achieve these goals. There's something we don't get to these goals. Most of it all comes down to not cheap political propaganda, fighting for political points, currently some of the messages we send to citizens, and then these desired results and targets from year to year are lagging behind. Also, in this law you provided for a parental allowance for both first and third children, we as a parliamentary group in December have submitted an amendment to define and precise amounts then and criteria for both the parenting and the child's allowance. You have, of course, rejected that amendment, as you will refuse many others we have submitted to these legislative proposals. It's nothing to argue with. We had a similar thing in a previous session when we submitted the amendment to the speed limit on the highway to be 130, you refused it, then you passed a new law and accepted it. Okay, that's the way you see how the Assembly, state and government should function, but right now, I also urge you to specify and define the criteria and around the child's supplement. The child's supplement is also a big problem and also something that should be defined in this law in the same way as the parental supplement is defined. So, as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, we will not support the proposed laws because they are in an unserious environment and adopted, because we will not have a discussion in particular as it has become practice in the last year. It is no longer anything new when we listen to some of the same amendments read by the MPs of the government and they make amendments to your legislative proposals. That's what it says, dear Minister and Minister, that your laws you're proposing here are not good, because if the MPs of the government are making amendments to your legislative proposals, then there's something wrong with that. I'm sorry we won't be able to talk about an important law like this law of yours or the law of simplified employment in seasonal affairs. I think these laws are far more important than this which is the first, but what we will do is parliamentary work which, as this regime and this authority imagine, is also the laws that come out of the process, so is life in Serbia and progress in Serbia. We shouldn't be surprised that we're getting smaller and smaller from day to day, instead of being more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40490	Comrade Aleksic, don't misinformed the citizens of Serbia. There will be a debate in detail. That's for sure. The word has a minister, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40491	A strategy to encourage birth was adopted in December. It was a formal legal basis for making first of all, an action plan, concreteisation of measures and the preparation of the Family Financial Support Act. It's not about changes, it's about supplements. First of all, a formal legal basis had to be created, a serious budget had to be carried out to assess the financial resources available and simply to counter what would happen over the next 10 years, and what kind of decision should we propose to the MPs who will, in the extreme case, translate the bill into law. You will decide whether 10 years is a good period, whether stimulating birth for the first, second, third, fourth child is okay. There were some questions about what would happen to the fifth child. You know, the World Health Organization, therefore, the medical profession says that for the health of women up to the number of four births and desirable and useful, that all that is behind it is a risk to women's health and we simply stuck to one professional suggestion, and we suggested to local self-government units that in the event that twins are born from the fifth pregnancy, to predict from their financial means, the possibility of funding in the same way that it is for the fourth child. On the other hand, the criticism of us constantly changing laws, so we don't change. By supplementing this law, maybe we could go with some completely different law that would have one, two, three members alone, but probably the same criticism. Why one such law, why it's not within what's already been brought before. So, it's about inciting birth, it's about a formal procedure, but a fundamental procedure, an assessment of what kind of dynamic Serbia is going to go through for the next 10 years, and what can we guarantee over the next 10 years? The suggestions that childhood ends up to 18 years old, although it has attitudes when in fact a child becomes a teenager, or teenager, are such that what was real at this point was done. The most important feature of this government is that the offer of legal solutions comes from real ones, not from the basics that one should like or not like. So, given the very real parameters, we suggest that the MPs vote this law. I'm truly sorry, I didn't think the Financial Support Act would be a problem for any opposition group. I also know people who participated in the debate today, and I just can't believe we're not gonna agree that this is a good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40492	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40493	I thank and must begin at the beginning to express my satisfaction because Minister Djordjevic has returned to the debate, for the simple reason that he has not been characterized by a conflicting or arrogant attitude towards opposition MPs, on the contrary, mostly correct. I was very surprised by his ears, in a way, by the impeachment of the opposition in his opening statement today. So, in the opening statement, preventing him from expressing himself, opposition sedition on some of the issues he expected during the debate. So I would like to appeal to Minister Djordjevic not to fall into the trap of fondness for the taps and that there is no reason for him to perform, as I said, against the opposition. I believe that, Minister, you have the awareness that you are here with your fellow Members in front of the MPs, where we are all equal, and the MPs of the position and opposition, that it should be your goal to convince the greater number of us to support the laws that you are reporting and that you are explaining on behalf of the Government and, too, that if they are adopted, you will then make sure that they are applied in an adequate manner, which applies to the citizens who voted for this authority and who did not vote for this power and who did not vote at all, after all. I would like you to return in your relationship with the MPs to that relationship we still appreciated and that you had until this morning's opening presentation. I have to say that I've been distracted by the laws in the field of work, especially now for a little longer, by a very reasonable law on the engagement of seasonal workers. However, you know very well, Minister, that there are no adequate solutions and that all of this attempt is just to put the bow on the ficus, if before any, therefore, to this law, this is about new law or amendments and additions to existing laws, not to change, for starters, the Labour Act, which should be most important, at least in normal states, which, unfortunately, is based on slave principles in the Republic of Serbia, bearing in mind that it is no easier to fire workers than in the state of Serbia, that those who are encouraged to seek justice in court, some and get it, come upon situations in which the court decisions are not executed or are indefinitely delayed. Also, I have to say, before I enter into a more detailed explanation on behalf of the Independent MPs Club, about the law I mentioned. So, the seasonal workers. There was a law that was close to supporting our Parliament club, which is an amendment to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which is justified in new norms. However, there is one part of the law that we couldn't simply justify, or we didn't see that the explanation was adequate or enough for our support, which is the fact that mobbing, or abuse of labour and discrimination is now being added to the jurisdiction of the peacemakers. Otherwise, these are individual disputes that are the most common, which are the most sensitive and which, especially in relation to the employer or the superior and the employee, and I don't think this is a good solution, or that only a peacemaker's attempt, and if there is no mutual agreement, as these changes provide, only to extend the term of the further mobing and that the situation, especially for the employees in the problem, will be increasingly unpleasant. What is certainly the focus of my presentation and what is the law that we consider irreparable, so that it should be withdrawn from the procedure, is the already mentioned law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs. It primarily refers to seasonal agricultural workers, therefore, to the most difficult jobs in agriculture. I have to say that the public was able, here exactly a month ago, at the end of May, to be finally informed by public statements about it, and what kind of relationship this regime had during the last time to seasonal workers, it's good that it became public. It is a really unusual relationship, it is a relationship that no one else has ever had with seasonal workers. Some would like to say so – for the first time in Serbia's recent history. I will therefore, here, public data, which were published on May 29th, to read here, because of the minister, the resolution, and because of my colleagues and colleagues and of course, because of the public, which is that we have learned that this regime has paid 1,000 dinars per year for local elections in Vrbas not to work, but to sell its vote for SNS. Here's a quote, a quote from public information. A group of seasonal workers confirmed that he participated in the purchase of SNS votes in last year's Vrbas elections. He also confirmed it to the police. And as it was announced on May 29th, police reportedly began acting on criminal charges for the purchase of votes in the local elections in Vrbas. He confirmed, therefore, that group leader of seasonal workers, that, I quote, in agreement with SNS officials, instead of in the field, he was driving to polling stations, and that they received a 1,000 dinar daily to vote for advances. Says the man: “I said that I was contacted by the SNS people and said that they gave a thousand dinars for the vote. I gave it to the workers, who voted for the SNS, they'll get a daily without a job. They didn't all agree, but those who did, they got the money. “ The only problem is, it turns out, under quotes, this man turns out to be what he says – now maybe I will be the only one, and I know many who have done this for both SNS and SPS and said that no one has prepared him for the possibility of being invited to talk to the police. It's what exists as public information. So far, and it is not excluded that this will continue, if we are aware of the reality, that the workers of the most difficult agricultural affairs were in such a difficult situation that they were ready to sell their vote for a daily daily of one day for a thousand dinars to decide on their behalf for the next four years. This is just an illustration to see what situation the superiors are in. Now, if I go back to the concrete solutions that you have made in this law, which I have already stated that it is irreparable and that I believe it should be withdrawn from the procedure, it is that, Mr. Minister, here you are establishing the principle of oral bargaining and I can understand, you yourself have said that you are not a lawyer, I can understand that some circumstances for you are not recognizable, but I am sure that in your close, professional working environment there are very professional lawyers who have to tell you that the establishment of oral bargaining after centuries of the development of legal science is something that is most insecure, the most insecure relationship between anyone who should be party to this agreement, whether in this case they are seasonal workers, their employers or some other relationship or other form of a contractual relationship. They had to tell you, too, that it is not true that the positive experiences of some countries that have also established the principle of oral bargaining are positive at one point. They must tell you that experience has shown that these solutions have been shown in the meantime and that they are working on it, some have already done so and some are working to change them as soon as possible. Of course, life is faster than the law, and you can't, and I'm not completely clear on what basis you're telling us now that maybe before the next season of summer work, so by next summer, maybe change the contract or this law if it turns out that it's a problem, and you don't now, when so many times and for some repeated solutions, it's because this law is written in this way, it's a law that actually protects employers' rights rather than seasonal workers. They also had to explain to you that it was an oral treaty, as I said, that it remained far beyond the legal science of the old Romans. You know, that's when oral contracts were carried out by witnesses, a man with a scale appeared, a party in an oral contract promised each other a commitment. I say: I am Zorana Djordjevic, behold, I have borrowed a thousand dinars; he will repay me in a month. After a month, Zoran Djordjevic comes and says, "How come she doesn't lend me a thousand dinars at all?" As a result, the ancient Romans also began to write down the commitments and the excuses of oral bargaining. So the written clue was the only guarantee that was agreed. Now, that's how the laws came to be. So the laws came about so that people wouldn't lie and cheat on each other, because the oral contract is the most insecure. This is Article 5, which consequently causes a number of other norms and which, of course, make this law unsustainable. The oral contract is considered the moment when the worker approaches work by accepting previously presented conditions by the employer. There is no record of what they have agreed, nor what the price of the diary, or the hour, or whether it will have a break on which it should be entitled for 30 minutes, absolutely nothing, other than elementary personal data. The next thing you're assuming is that the employer, at the request of that seasonal worker, can issue a confirmation of where the data will be listed that he works. But in that certificate, which is issued no more than two months later, so with which this seasonal worker, who may be working for a month or ten days, can't do anything, doesn't necessarily mean there won't be any fake data. They may ordinarily agree that the worker will work 200 dinars an hour, and then the employer will make two months later that he hired him to work for 100 dinars an hour, and the witness is gone. The oral agreement is only between a superintendent and an employer. And who's going to guarantee it? The labour inspector who allegedly is the protector of the rights of seasonal workers here. On what basis is this man going to conclude what was the agreement, what was the oral agreement on—my mother? Well, that can't go anywhere. So there is no interpretation of the best lawyer in the world who will say that this law provides and guarantees improvement of working conditions and the rights of seasonal workers and that is absolutely clear. Of course, I'm not talking about the blackmailing potential of certain provisions where an employer can unilaterally cancel a contract to a seasonal worker, by immediately hiring the next one and of course this first one in fear of a job will agree to anything. So, there's no amount of profit in that record, nor do we know whether there's going to be a hand-to-hand payment or maybe there's some profit calculations, which would be some evidence again. I also have to say that I don't understand how you came to the conclusion that this law speeds up or facilitates the engagement of seasonal workers, if on the one hand it was your goal to avoid formalities through the oral contract, and then you introduce a series of formalities literally into the employers' watch. It's not clear to me that you didn't foresee a solution by simply formulating a contract, equal or typical for everyone, this relationship is regulated, but you've avoided it all and in fact protected mainly by employers' rights, if they're at all safe to report seasonal workers. I have a little time left just to look back on a few very interesting thesiss that have been presented here in the section of the discussion of population policy. I am taking the opportunity to appeal to Minister Djukić Dejanovic and Minister Djordjevic – do everything, put all possible influence on the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health to introduce this reproductive health once into school content. You told us, Minister, about the educational level of women to be raised, we listened from the Minister of Statistics, about kiretages, about unwanted underage pregnancies, etc. It's not about women. We have to deal with adolescents, so both girls and young people, who, of course, are in it together. Reproductive health is not just a matter of reproduction. We are all born as sexual beings, therefore, with reproductive organs. It's people's choice whether they're going to reproduce or not, but we have to make the same effort, and those who want it and those who don't want it, and those who can't, and you know that the best measure of prevention is both from unwanted pregnancy and from consequent sterilities, etc. Introducing reproductive health and these contents not only in secondary schools, but in several classes of primary education. There's no other way. There's no practice, there's no state that hasn't shown it's the best measure of prevention. I ask you to pledge your authority to apply it in the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible, either through some piloting or through some alternative content. But the awareness of it or the explanation that kids or young people know everything isn't true. Please take a look at the statistics of the Institute of Public Health from Vojvodina and through Belgrade, you will see how much they don't know about elementary reproductive health, they have no idea about elemental things. Informing online is, you know, often partial, incorrect, not enough and on the other hand, I don't belong to those parents, but I understand parents who have no knowledge, have no courage, after all, to talk to their children on this subject. I think the education system is crucial, so not health care, but in the network of these ministries, through the education system, that it's the only measure not only to prevent bad situations and dangerous situations in which women can be found, as well as young people, of course. We're totally neglecting guys here. When someone says reproductive health, everyone first thinks about the unwanted pregnancy of a young girl or a high school girl, because her pregnancy is visible, you know, and nobody deals with urological problems of guys, different other problems that adolescents really have literally on a daily level, and in that adult period when they don't share with the authority of their problems and when peer relationship is the key, of course, but I think the education system is the most inclusive, because it's the key. So, non-alternatively, go to some institutions or move out, especially in small areas, you know that young people are stigmatized even if they don't have a problem, and they go for information to some counseling facility. So, yeah, coming up on their feet, into the education system that's most important, and that's the right measure, which doesn't mean that it excludes the measures that you're talking about, but I think this is lesson number one, and all of this is an upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40494	The word has a minister, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40495	In the last part of your participation in the debate, I would really agree. Our traditional family simply accepts reproductive health and sexuality problems as a subject that can be significant to it and how important it is to all family members. In that sense, I agree with you that education and health systems must, within their reform steps, make one breakthrough precisely in public health and in the context of public health more knowledge of reproductive health, at every level, from the preschool period when learning the family tree and the relationship of siblings, boys and girls and obtaining elementary knowledge, to the one in primary school, because the beginning of sex life and among our young citizens is much lower than it was before, and the first birth has been delayed for a much later period. What we did last year, it was that we managed to, in collaboration with Minister Sarčević, in the course of the course of physical and health education in the fifth grade of primary school, which is completely insufficient, introduce knowledge lessons on reproductive health and conversation on full transmitted diseases. How important the topic you mentioned is the fact that one of the most common cancers in women with carcinoma of the uterus, which in one distant Australia was represented among cancers 10 years ago from 22% and only thanks to the administration of the vaccine against HPV, was reduced to 1.1%. So the topics become very intertwined. We can't be supporters of the antivaccinal lobby at the same time and ask that our knowledge of reproductive health be modern and modern. We just have to stick to the rules of the profession. For that reason, the Minister of Health, and the Minister of Education, and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and the Minister of the Environment, and all of us here together need to think about how to raise the level of general knowledge. It's a little painful, but the fact is that no matter how much we love each other and our Serbia, that our level of general knowledge, especially in these sensitive areas, is very low, and everyone wants someone else to start working, but not him. For this reason, I very much support your participation in the debate that without introducing into the educational system topics related to reproductive health and without the education of future parents, who simply have to develop this one stereotype, that taboo topic is to talk about everything in the family, because the child still spends the most time with his peers in the family and at school. So these are some environments where first knowledge is acquired. Boys and girls 10 to 14 years old, on average at 12 years of age, should be very informed about everything so as not to talk about juvenile pregnancy, secondary sterility, the cancer of the arms of the womb that can be, if applied according to our legislation, recommended vaccines, because there are problems as we see with mandatory vaccines, if applied, we can really take a fundamental step forward and in matters related to at least less secondary sterilities and diseases that relate to life and in a fertilised period, and every life is important and every child is important.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40496	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40497	When it comes to the draft law on seasonal employment, simplified, I have to tell you that there is a bond law, an oral agreement law, and it exists today by law. It is used both today and whoever makes the deal, simply if he is not paid by the one who needed it that day, the next day will not appear. Now, according to this Law, we have predicted that this oral agreement is a minimum that belongs to it, it can only be more than that, and he, as I told you, can at the end of the day and himself or with the help of someone else to verify whether it was paid to him or if he was actually registered. And it depends on whether he comes to work tomorrow. I think in those cases, whoever hired those people, bad news, bad news that something is not being paid, if it spreads quickly among those workers, I think it will lead to the fact that whoever doesn't pay them what they need, come to a bad voice and simply won't be able to get workers in the future. So they won't be interested either. Also, you're saying why the oral arrangement, so I guess we're all going to simplify as much as possible. It's very difficult for you yourself to realize that some things are very difficult to do, and imagine just asking them to sign a contract, to print a contract in how many copies and to buy a contract from someone, and not knowing whether these seasonal workers will read all the fine print and only then know what they have signed. This is how we know that their minimum that should be respected is what the law requires of them and that the minimum price is 143 dinars per hour. So everything is very measurable and everything is very verifiable. So the employee who's hired can easily come to the knowledge when he's done working and when he gets and when he's paid off with it, he can very easily check that everything else is spent and he's going to show up at work tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-21-0.u40498	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work and we'd be back tomorrow at 12:00. [[The session was suspended at 7:20 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue the joint principle and uniform searches on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Minister without portfolio with associates. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
