ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40500	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, what would you say about the bill by Murat Aga Pozderac or Sljevni Grubasic or Vuk descendant, I don't know, but what I can certainly tell you is that if you do everything contrary to what Alexic's descendant suggested yesterday, Serbia is certainly on the right track. Perhaps more than you should at this time be concerned by the Minister of Agriculture after yesterday's discovery that the former president of the municipality of Trstenik, director of the imaginary JKP "Počevina", co-owner of the NGO for the protection of non-existent, old persons, leader of an organized criminal Tassian budget discharge group, threw himself on agriculture, and I would really be on guard. Since there was only one truck without a driver in the JPP, because it was no longer known which one was broken, the director or the truck, I am not sure how and how much poor Julian was going to get hurt and who he touched with honorably and manly to answer for it. In addition, I must say that I have had enough of these Eurofanatics, whose entry into the EU has remained the only official objective. I'm really sick of them diving crocodile tears over that instead of having 20 laws that we're discussing in the sitting, we're not going one by one. If they did, it would be too long a trip to Europe, because if I remember correctly, when the coup came to power, in October 2000, they said it should be harmonised or amended about 12,500 legal regulations. Count only from one to 12,500 and imagine the Assembly discussing each individual law for seven days? From sloth on their side is something that's unconquerable and obviously never ends. I am not in a hurry personally in the EU. I don't even want to enter the EU personally, but, like many of my colleagues in the O.R., every day we do the best we can, as we have sworn to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, apart from the honorable exceptions, there are none in the O.R. except when they should come to provoke, insult, cause riots, obstruct, but honor them. It turns out that we non-Europeans care more about joining the EU, but that's really not the case. It's not that. We want Serbia to decide one day full of pockets, full of stomachs, standing on its own feet, with a healthy economy whether or not it will become part of the EU. (Radoslav Milojic): It's important that you have a full stomach. ) Serbia is part of Europe and that is what is undeniable, and the rest will be decided by the citizens of Serbia when the time comes. The laws we're talking about now are not the populist laws, as we heard yesterday, but the laws that go ahead of this time. I'm glad you didn't get scared of the possible twisting and abuse by the demagogues when it comes to the law on simplified engagement in seasonal affairs. This is not law or force or coercion. This is the law of opportunity. With all due respect to the difficult situation in agriculture, this law will allow any of the seasonal workers to experience injury, God forbid disability, to have a legal basis that, like other citizens who are employed, they exercise their rights. I don't think he should be a bit rigorous at first. Attention should be paid to education, as farmers engage seasonal workers, but also to seasonal workers. I didn't fall from Mars, not even from dudes, and I know that today 1,800 dinars as a daily are much more significant and larger than 1,500 dinars and paid taxes that this law foresees, but what tomorrow? One day he comes tomorrow, and then, far away, we regret it. Besides, there's a lot left here at will for both seasons and, conditionally speaking, the bosses. It's easy to say you're a relative to get a bigger diary, but you should think about what if you get hurt or get sick. The boss can accept a variant like this, but what if tomorrow someone sues him, so it costs him more than he pays as much as this law provides. All of this, in some future period, needs to be resolved, gradually and put into order, and the adoption of this law on the agenda of the Assembly and its entry into force tells me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia expects serious progress in agriculture, in agricultural activity, and that what we are talking about today, that it is very difficult to pay off the diaries, that it is very difficult to create conditions for the payout of the daily days, in a year or two, when this law gets its full application, it will no longer be a serious problem, nor a serious obstacle. It's a good thing this law has room for habitation and there's got to be tolerance, but what the state can't have is tolerance and what can't let it happen again is what happened in the Chances. The director of ZZ, a certain Radovic, sells to a colder built by the state, and now leads the Malian protests, because instead of deciding when to sell the raspberries, he is now blackmailing them, to those to whom Radovic sold the coolant. If there is not enough awareness already, this is one of the serious reasons why the state has to take steps and pre-warm these situations, because in the same period there is a freezer built in Slankamen, but it was a completely different relationship between members of the ZZ and instead of that one freezer there is now another and, as far as I can hear, they are doing very well, serving their members of the cooperative and thinking about expanding capacity. This is good law. It'll be even better when time shows what else needs to be improved on it because we're introducing this for the first time in practice, and we'll know that for, by my estimate, two or three years when it's fully revived. What has not been said much, and it is significant, the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on Social Security. I don't think it should particularly point out how many of our fellow citizens who live and work in the Russian Federation or a certain number of Russian Federation citizens living in the Republic of Serbia will facilitate the exercise of the right to an age, early retirement, disability and family pension, rights in the event of injuries to work, occupational illness, etc. The text of the Agreement and the number of meetings and arrangements clearly show from this text how much effort has been made to bring the general principles adopted by both national legislations covering these areas into maximum conformity, especially in the part where it comes to the collection of periods of insurance completed in both countries and direct payments obtained by giving. The law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children is inevitable. What is in front of us today shows that the state is clearly making all the efforts and giving maximum support that the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia can now provide. In order for this to have an effect, it has to be done, but it has to be done most in education, in education, in understanding of life's things and problems. It's not very popular what I'm going to say, but our children are as beautiful as we've raised them for the past 20 years. As we implanted in them defetism, selfishness, self-evidentism, and what must be done is to erase it. You know, one day that these givings are ten times bigger that will be made to help expand the family, someone will say it's a little bit and not enough. It has to work on education, it has to work to erase from the consciousness of what I call the "slip" firm that brought to Serbia, which is an alliance of thieves and frauds, a red-beard pirate who first introduced the "Big Brother" into Pioneer Park. We need to explain to young people that children are the only and greatest wealth, that healthy and happy offspring are the only successful career, and in order for children to be born, you don't have to have a three-bedroom apartment, equipped "in the full", each by car and a 5,000-euro salary. It's enough that you have enough love for yourself primarily, so mostly for children, and then you'll realize when you realize how rich you really are. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40501	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40502	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I advertise the 107th dignity of the National Assembly that always breaks as soon as the previous speaker gets his word and I advertise Article 108, Mr Arsic, that it is the turn of the session of the old chairman, in this case you. Let me ask you, what does it take for someone in power to make excuses for you to react? Do you perhaps have a hearing problem so that you do not hear or want to react deliberately? Do you mind if I say, "The thief, the cheater, the bandit, the redbeard?" It's just part of what the previous speaker said earlier, and I see that there are some here and funny, sitting next to you. It's nothing funny. I don't know when you'll find it appropriate to react. And that's said by a man whose party president cannons everything to the students and says that the 300,000-euro apartment was acquired by his aunt's aunt's money, not his aunt's. You didn't find any of it appropriate to react. Don't think we're gonna keep our mouths shut here and let them insult anyone, especially people who aren't in the O.R. and who can't answer these disgusting lies and disgusting accusations. It would be better to think about today and this agenda that 1,000 villages in Serbia with less than 100 inhabitants, that the average age in these villages is 80 years, that you have ruined Serbia and that you have owed it 10 billion euros for a frequent year of your boast and corrupt authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40503	Let me answer your injury to the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojić): It is the Serbian, when I see you, you make my day, you and Rističević. A fellow Milojić, please. First of all, you have no right to a replica, colleague Komlenski, because it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This is what you have accused your colleague Komlenski of, okay, in your discussions, regardless of the topic of the agenda, you are calling authorities in Serbia robbers. [[Radoslav Milojic: It is not a replica, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] (Radoslav Milojic: No. ) Robbery power, that's how it is. (Radoslav Milojičić: Thief. Here's a better one. Furthermore, in your discussions, you keep making the truth that, say, the diesel at the time of your government was 80 dinars, which is not true, that the wheat was 24, and now it's 12, so it's up to 16, I think, the dinar... (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. I'm responding to your breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can't have a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. I am obliged to answer you. Radoslav Milojic: I can. From the post, Mr. Arsic... I'm obliged to answer how... (Radoslav Milojic: To answer the price of cereals in Serbia, I did not ask that. Don't get excited. I just want to tell you, colleague Milojičić, that colleague Komlenski has the same rights as you. Nobody kept you from saying that, so don't expect me to stop someone else. You called his party president a man who sent guns to students. Is that right? (Radoslav Milojic: That's right. Well, I'm sorry, what does that have to do with any breach of the Rules of Procedure? Radoslav Milojic: How is there not? Well, there isn't. (Radoslav Milojic): How could you give him 15 minutes to tell lies, which is why I reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I was just quoting some of your speeches. You will see that my colleague Komlenski was much lighter, much more disciplined, much more correct in his presentation. (Radoslav Milojic): And much more charming and handsome. ( ) Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Answer yes or no? (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. Yes. All right. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the Redbeards, I'm advocating Article 103 of Article 8. in relation to Article 107. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I believe that the Rules of Procedure has been injured because, but I do not insist that two minutes be taken away from the previous speaker, I would like to warn you that there is also a gourd pirate out there somewhere in the sea at Palanca. It's about a person who's had five tons of raspberry in one night. It's about the person who drank the tank in one evening, or as much money as Mr. Sutanovac received from exporting tanks to Iraq, for one tank. Imagine a man who drinks five tons of raspberries, who drinks one tank and drinks a two-year lease of a pool of Olympic proportions in Palanca. He said one great lie. It is true that there are 1,200 inhabited places, it is true that we found this after the rule of the alliance of thieves, frauds, peljesanovic, fraud, that Serbia became a collection of smaller party homes and that we found this situation in 2012, but the average age in the country was not 84 years, but 59 years, the average price of wheat in 2011 was 13.5 dinars, only after the change was 26 dinars thanks to drought. It stabilized between 17 and 19 dinars. Malina was not two and a half euros in 2011, but 90 dinars, slightly less than the euro. He cheated, violated the dignity of the National Assembly, but I'm not asking to vote since that person can sit down again, drink some tank, five tons of raspberries or two-year pool rental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40505	Since counterpart Risticevic does not want us to plead on Vote Day, I am not obliged to give him an answer. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40506	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm advertising Article 109. And about how Serbian citizens live, you have to ask them -- if they have enough money in their wallet, whether they have enough fuel in their tank and whether they have enough food in their refrigerator, and the answer is no, because for 6.5 years, the B.I.D.S. authorities in each segment are worse, in agriculture, especially. I can talk about the price of grain that was 23 dinars, 24 dinars in our yellow days, now the price of grain is 16 dinars, since you talked about it. We can also talk about the fact that we yellow, as you say, found the average salary of 30 euros, and left an average salary of 230 euros when we left the government, that we returned the old foreign exchange savings, that we returned 13 back from the rest of our pensions, that we returned 14 children's supplements that this ruling majority remained only in another form to the citizens and citizens of Serbia, that we returned Telekom, that we returned the country to the UN and we are proud of it. For us, Zoran Djindjic is a hero, and Ratko Mladic is a war criminal and there is no compromise on that with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40507	My colleague Milojic, in your discussion, you have called on a member of 109th and by that member I should punish the people, because you have asked the question that while we are in power we ask the citizens if they have enough money, whether they have fuel in the tank, etc. (Radoslav Milojic: I say they do not. ) I'm not going into this right now, I just don't think I can punish or intend to from this position of the Serbian citizen. (Radoslav Milojic): You punished them by being in power for seven years. And that question, Mr. Milojic, was supposed to be asked while you were in power. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? Yeah. ) It will come out. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40508	Thank you, Chairman. Article 27. - The President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and in relation to Rule 108, I must remind you that you have at your disposal some measures, such as warning, taking words or away from the session. But, Chairman, if you're interested in what reason the previous speaker is nervous this much today, here, I'll tell you. Word came out that Kena's in front of the D.A.'s office for organized crime. That's why he's nervous. The public defendership of Smederjevska Palanka municipality has filed criminal charges against Radoslav Milojičić Kena Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the competent department of the Prosecutor's Office for Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40509	Comrade Markovic, don't talk about the details of your private life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40510	Well, this is not a detail of private life, this is public information, public information that a man is in front of the D.A. for organized crime and for the robbery and theft he's been doing for years while he was president of Smederevska Palanka Municipality, when that city left without electricity and water and total loss, debts and minuses of nearly four billion dinars. And he's complaining to us here today. I ask you to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure and take a minimum of two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40511	My colleague Markovic, I will not take away from the time of the DS parliamentary group those two minutes, because I know that as soon as they spend time, they leave the hall. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? No, I don't. The damage to the Rules of Procedure, just a little bit, there are more. George Komlensky has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40512	Thank you. Article 103 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. You were obliged to react and to prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure in the second round, regardless of the gentleman who abused the Rules of Procedure led to the fact that the abuse of the Rules of Procedure was caused by a serious problem, because he himself would no longer lend himself a hitchhiker, so he is trying to somehow attach himself to this slip to the association of thieves and frauds, so that he might not borrow from those 25m euros registered by a redbeard pirate from 25m euros. And in Smederjevska Palanca, there is no one to borrow from, nor can he approach any dinar from the budget anymore because the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka saw how many he robbed them during his term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40513	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40514	Thank you. A member of the 107th National Assembly has been injured because, Mr. Chairman, you have allowed the previous speaker to talk roughly about the SNS. A man whose time of exercise of power, Serbia and its citizens were robbed by 100 billion euros, spoke. The man whose authorities' holders Djelic and Pajtic signed a famous Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2008 came into force, a criminal contract, which, first of all, violated the rights and threatened the rights of agricultural entrepreneurs, i.e. agriculture as branches of the economy. He talked about a man who only advocated the gray economy, because the gray economy is exactly the place where they can rob, where individuals can get rich, and citizens are poor, in which corruption rules. I'm not asking the National Assembly to plead, but you were obliged to react to the lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40515	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40516	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 108. Mr. Chairman, I think Mr. Milojic is trying to take over the presidency of this assembly. I don't think we can allow it, first of all, for moral reasons. The time in which citizens were able to corrupt themselves in the way that they are corrupt, the time in which a party that was a real combustible ruled and who missed the citizens of non-migrants through it and that, by international organisations, only 10 years from now, more than 50 billion dollars were exported. So, I'm talking about data from international organisations, which say that only through privatization by false invoices has been taken out of Serbia's state over 50 billion. I think he's trying to make noises and noises to distract himself from the general criminal responsibility of Mr. Gilas, Mr. Jeremic, his responsibility and to try to replace the quarrel here and thus present himself as a political opponent and that all the measures that the judiciary, which is independent of this authority, is not independent of their authority, because they have selected these judges, that the judiciary is portrayed as a remandist, that the regime, that the current government, that the regime, according to them, is accounted for by political insinuators. That's why he comes every morning, tries to replace the fight, to present himself later as a political victim of the regime, to allegedly the judiciary, and that's what Mr. Markovic was saying, accounting with them. You have to stop it, because this behavior is repeated for a few days. Please take care of it in the future. I'm not asking you to vote on this and respect your tolerance to your opposition colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40517	Thank you. You're right, colleague Risticevic, it's impossible that I've done so much damage to the Rules of Procedure for only one exposure. We're moving on to regular work. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right anymore, colleague Milojičić. (Radoslav Milojic: Only I have no right. You've talked twice about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: Six of them were right, except I don't. Very brave. You come here just to tell me what you have. (Radoslav Milojic: What are you afraid of? Why don't you give me your word? I'm not afraid of you, but we have to keep working. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40518	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the particularly great efforts that the Republic of Serbia has made in the past years to preserve its own integrity and integrity of the state, in strengthening the economy, new employment, social security, assistance to families and all other areas of life that are of great importance to citizens, for the country in general and for its international and stabilisation and reputation, I would like once again to look back on what our diplomacy has done in recent years, especially in recent days, fighting for KIM, our province for which some of the government once did not care. I would like to point out that the great efforts of Minister Ivica Dacic, the great efforts of the government and the president of the state bear fruit, in this sense that a growing number of countries are today withdrawing their recognition of KIM, noting that in the previous period they were not familiar with what is actually happening in these areas, nor with the interest of the Serbian state to explain this issue to our old and verified friends. So much success is greater today and more significant, as trust is being restored among old friends, as good and positive relations are being restored and Serbia is recording significant steps in this regard. No matter how small or large these countries are, it is significant, every vote in the UN means Serbia's victory. In that sense, I would like to thank the state of Liberia, the foreign minister, who, together with Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, held a press conference, publicly showed a document that invalidates the previous recognition of KIM, as an independent state, and leaves a question for further resolution. In that sense, I think our congregation must also support such efforts and overall endurance. When it comes to today's session, in my discussion, I will initially join MPs who, during yesterday, highlighted the abundance of the agenda, the diversity of laws discussed today as well as a difficult environment. My emphasis on this issue goes with the argument that among these laws there is a significant number of those who solve many important issues that have been open for a long time, which could not have been mentioned for a long time, nor have great efforts been made to close, and this time in the proposal, e.g. The agreement with the Russian Federation or some others, we are closing important issues that have been opened, and we will not have enough time to introduce the citizens to these solutions, and they are certainly for us, or for all citizens of great importance. It is good solutions that solve serious problems, as well as that law that solves the reference of employees to temporary work abroad, which we know was also problematic in the previous period. Among the total laws that we were able to divide into several groups, and one group makes laws in the field of labour and employment, other laws in the field of combat protection and memorials, and the third agreements and memoranda that I spoke about earlier, a special place, however, is taking up the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support to the Family. It's also by the meaning of the great law. This was shown by yesterday's debate, so there are no MPs who do not support this goal and this law. According to experts, in Serbia 30, 40 years ago, they pointed to a major problem of insufficient birth and population depopulation. It is responsible that in half a century Serbia becomes a state with almost the oldest population in Europe, in which there will be not enough young people to ensure the duration of both nations and states. It was a futuristism at the time that no one wanted to hear seriously and take action. For example, in 1971, the total fertility rate in central Serbia was 15% lower than needed to restore free reproduction, and in Vojvodina over 20%. Before 2000, however briefly, a family ministry was established in the so-called so-called "Family" ministry. The bad time of Slob, but after 2000, it was better off. It was only in 2012, that the government began to responsibly address serious national and national issues from reviving labour and employment, resolving the stability of the state budget, strengthening the economy, resolving the issue of the Serbian province of KIM and its international status, etc., but here is the big problem of restoring the population and population policy. Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, without a special ministry, without broad support from professional services within her ministry, succeeded in her knowledge, ability, profession and good relationship with science, with the position and opposition to bring together professionals, so that the development strategy was adopted for the first time, the Action Plan from which new concrete measures of support to the family came about at the end of last year. The measures support the birth of the first, second, third and fourth children in order to make the necessary family model in Serbia a model with three children in the future. We have long been slaves to a duo model that we accepted from France in the '60s and '70s when it was almost a shame to have more than two children in Serbia. This time, the concrete measures adopted by this bill mean the support of 100,000 dinars once for the first child, 240 thousand for the second child, a million and 440 thousand in the 10-year wars for the third child and 2,160,000 for the fourth child in equal wars. I stress, this is not economic, it's not a social measure, it's an incentive to family and to have children. It must be, as the minister said yesterday, just beginning to see real effects in the next 10-15 years. This is applied by much more developed countries, and it is a big deal that Serbia today, in the conditions in which it exists, has applied such measures. Why? Because if this trend continues, the population will drop by 23% over the next 20 years, with only 5.5 million people in Serbia. That's why it's high time, and the question is whether we've already spent our time taking measures, and it's financial assistance to families with children, to be the ultimate measure, but we're aware that it's the basic one, because economic strengthening, developing new businesses, new employment, social security, housing policy is just the right measure that stabilizes this issue and these measures can change the course of this policy. Even when better conditions are created, we must cope with the new philosophy of young people's lives, the understanding of personal freedoms, with family understanding, with the influence of the media and global politics. I certainly want to point out that you can always say – it could have been different, it could have been better, but it certainly is no reason not to accept this law as a start and as a big revolutionary and significant thing. Our goal is to preserve the family as an institution where partners are equally and mutually respected. By developing a family model with three children, applying economic incentives, social development and security, security of simple and expanded reproduction, because as our friend Vesna said yesterday, there will be no one to bring flowers to our memorials of one heroic people who fought for his freedom. Today, too, the laws include those in the field of work, where the Law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs is certainly set out. That means hiring seasonal workers. It is certain that the issue of seasonal workers has not been treated so far, because they have been employed in an old, traditional way. It is certain that these people who do seasonal jobs work in the field of the gray economy, that they are invisible to the system, that in every respect they are unprotected, do not have pension and health insurance, are exposed to numerous risks, are directly agreed on working conditions and wages. Employers, agricultural firms and combined, but also private workers have no obligations and responsibilities. True, seasonal workers are getting smaller and are already finding them in less and less populated villages. It is important for the state that all workers work legally, that employers work in legal and equal conditions to have the same rights and obligations, and that approach is also responsible for the budget in general. That is why we will surely adopt and accept this law and this orientation. Let's take a look at the season workers. These are unemployed people, lower education structures, former employees' surpluses in violently buraseric privatisation of closed and destroyed factories, older, difficult employment categories, often people with disabilities, under 18 years of age, and often foreigners, and I'm afraid there will be more and more. By rejecting this bill, we keep leaving all these people out of protection and out of the law. The imposed obligation to report seasonal workers will first be met in large agricultural holdings and farms. It's gonna be harder to apply at first with an individual manufacturer and we're all aware of that, but it's now. The village is not sufficiently used to such changes and innovations, but the measures will start to apply, develop, and thus we can further develop the village and bring back life, build roads and the necessary infrastructure. These flows should go in parallel to both development and stimulation and labour and social protection of rural residents and this as an SPS can only be supported. I'm not sure the labour inspector will be chasing seasons in the fields, but we'll protect you and those people who work under these conditions for sure. In this sense, we support the laws that are in this set, especially this law in the field of seasonal employment. Despite these laws, laws are also proposed in the set, as I said at the outset, or amendments and additions to fighting, disability protection, which other MPs of our parliamentary group will still be talking about. I just want to point out the great importance of these laws, the importance of protecting every fighter, anyone who defended his house, his people, because our army was never an aggressor. We defended the place where we were born, where we lived and the right to live and stay. A great deal of attention, of course, has attracted the War Memorial Act, which is the first such comprehensive law of the Serbian state in this area. This matter was previously covered by the laws of the SRJ, i.e. the SFRJ for memorials abroad, and by the Republic in the Republic itself. I have to say, in the previous period, we haven't really proven ourselves responsible enough for these memorials, because many others have been abandoned, some even forgotten or undiscovered. I therefore welcome the proposal of this law in the belief that we will have responsible and comprehensively investigated and recorded memorials and places of the death of our people abroad and in the country. Also, but perhaps even more, I think it's important to record all the dead, killed, all the victims of the war. Unfortunately, the 20th century is the great loss of the Serb population in various Balkan, world and NATO wars. It's inadmissible, even embarrassing that we don't know the number of victims and their names. I'll remember my grandfather, Judja, and I'll remember both uncles and uncles who untraceablely disappeared in World War II, but at the same time all those fighters, whose names we've named, and the people who were killed, whose names we've forgotten at KIM. That's why today someone can say that for example. There were not so many victims in Jasenovac and the difference was not from a few dozen or hundreds. That's why you can say -- Serbs were aggressors, so it can be forgotten and unpunished. The loss of Serbian miners at KIM who remained unpunished and carried out on this day. There must be no private initiative behind the memory. The state must stand, not look into the past and be trapped in it, but remember, warn and look into the future. If we lose our memory, we've lost ourselves, and we've lost a lot. That's why I propose responsible, with respect and piety, every action in that place for marking, keeping memories both in places and in people. I suggest, and that's what we're already talking about, for example. The old Belgrade fairground built between two bridges as a major central memorial, similar to Jad Vash, and marked this place as a place of great suffering for the people. Also marked are the Topovo sheds, which must not remain with just one mention of the board on which a modern shopping mall will be built. Modern malls are located in every place, and traditions and memories are only of some. And to know which and what state it was in doing and the fascist formation, that genocide and the killing were conducted and worked. It must not be forgotten the name of an ordinary man, alone, but hero Miladin Zaric, who saved one bridge and saved so many lives of fighters and the fight for Belgrade's freedom. Finally, we support the establishment of advice as a body, we support the integration of professional people and protection institutions that will give professional opinions in this area when, to whom and where to raise a memorial and when it is unacceptable. Given what we have been through as a Serbian people in the 20th century, how we have defended the right to freedom, to independence, as much as today, but other means, and that the right to life in our country has never been given to us, but always with fierce struggles and great efforts to think that we are fighting hard now, I think we should be more suited to the "Vojesti Serbie" anthem, which, as we have seen, was written by the great Dossetij Obradović, the great Serbian Enlightenment Minister and the first minister of education, whom, as we have seen, the students in the prom exam, today did not recognize. It's a question for the Minister of Education. That's us. When we are able to change our relationship to such things, and this government is truly struggling to preserve the state and bring together the people, then we will have a successful state and a successful people. If we succeed in not forgetting both Kajmakalan and Cer, nor Kolibar, nor the heroic defence of Belgrade, nor Sutjesk, Neretva and Kozara, nor Koshara, nor Paštrik, but not Jasenovac, Jadovno, Sisak and Jastrebor, a great loss on KIM, which is a black hole in our history, as we succeed, and we have to raise Serbia, there will be something to remember our descendants, and what to guard and what to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40519	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40520	Thank you. Dear President, I must say that we have before us the draft laws submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, and the special value of these laws is that they treat both the past and the present and the future of our people and our citizens, and in this sense all praise for the proposed laws. First of all, I would like to refer to yesterday's discussion of certain Members of the People, which touched on the talk on the principle of moral issues and the questions of reality. First of all, I must point out that the reality of the series and the first reality program was introduced by Dragan Gilas through the construction of the Big Brother house, but what is sad is that the Big Brother house was built in such a way that the usurped land in the most elite part of Belgrade, in Kosutnjak, and imagine what and under what justification – for building a living room for children. It seems that by 2012, the yellow company was the best and easiest robbery, unfortunately through children, which is for every conviction and shame. Of course, behind the Big Brother’s house, only the ruins remained, the other animals died, and the rest was garbage. Also, I would like to point out that during yesterday's discussion, there was an announcement and a plea for farmers, for agricultural producers, etc. The basic means of political struggle for MPs of the yellow company in different forms of appearance is certainly manipulation. Neither they care about farmers nor they care about Serbian citizens. They only care about their own pockets. If they had taken care of agriculture, the 2007 Stabilisation and Association Agreement would not have been signed, which is the most devastating for the agriculture sector, because it allowed 100 per cent imports of milk and milk products from the EU in 2014 and, of course, something else – this criminal contract allowed the purchase of the country to foreigners by 2017. Fortunately, the citizens of Serbia in 2012 trusted to lead them into the future gave SNS and Alexander Vukic, and these attempts were prevented by the government of Aleksandar Vukic, on several occasions, reacting to the protection of agricultural producers, cattle farmers, just those involved in the production of milk. Of course, foreign land purchases are not allowed either, thanks to this government. I want to go back to the proposed laws. First of all, I want to say that the first proposed law relating to war memorials, all praises for it, because this law is a sign that our government, our country and our president and that they are taking care of all those who have suffered the freedom of our country and, ultimately, that we are living peacefully in it today. As far as this law is concerned, it is the first time that the correct procedure is introduced, and in fact the administrative procedure, when it comes to the construction of new war memorials, as well as the removal of the old one. Also, for the first time, I have to say unfortunately, but fortunately this government recognized it, that the country of Serbia should have a unique record that refers to all the dead and killed and all those fighters who gave life for the freedom of the country. This law is just predicting the keeping of a single record and finally, thanks to this government, we will have this unique record. I have to say that last year, the Ministry of Labour worked on reconstruction and reconstruction of war memorials, and in the last year 17 war memorials were recovered, which is certainly commendable. I must point out that the proposal for this law also provides for the formation of advice and inclusion of professional people, except for people from the state administration, particularly historians, primarily representatives of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, because I must point out that war memorials are actually our monuments of culture that we have to guard for our future generations. When it comes to the draft legislation on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities, I must also point out that one of the priorities of the government and one of the priorities of SNS policy is to fight the gray economy, because the grey economy is the source of corruption and crime. They did so by 2012, and now they care about it on the road, including this law. There have been some objections here compared to this law, but unlike their period, when the workers, unfortunately, really were superiors because the yellow company fired over 400,000 workers, these workers were superiors, that's not the favorite expression in our society, that's the expression for those who work for bread crusts, they're concerned today that this government is setting up a registration procedure, not the archivals as they say, these are seasonal workers. These are the workers who have an insurance internship. These are workers who may one day exercise the right to retire. These are workers who also have health care, for which health care is provided. These are workers who are not deprived through seasonal jobs of any of their rights granted by either the National Employment Service, either at the Social Labour Centre, which refers to the exercise of the right to financial social assistance, in accordance with the Law on Monetary and Social Assistance. Certainly all the praises for this law, and the remarks we heard yesterday, that the state wants some money, I just have to say one thing, for the sake of the citizens. State revenues are taxes, but from those taxes that the state collects, roads are built, kindergartens are built, hospitals are built, social protection institutions are built. Therefore, this government is giving the funds in a responsible manner to the benefit of the improvement of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law also provides for this transitional period, given that here the two ministries are responsible for the adoption of sublegal acts – the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance. But I have to say, for all those villains who seem most afraid of the success of this government, that in 2012, these citizens led to the bottom, that thanks to the SNS, we rose from that bottom. We're moving forward. Serbia is developing with a rapid step and is becoming a stable country, both in political and economic terms. I must say, this law was otherwise supported by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Development. You don't think the German Federal Ministry would support something that's contrary to democratic principles and fundamental human rights and fundamental human rights is the right to work? Since the arrival of SNS and the government of Aleksandra Vukic and the government of Ana Brnabic, unemployment in Serbia has fallen drastically. We inherited 26% unemployment, it's now down to 12%. Of course, that's a lot, but every day we struggle to make that unemployment smaller and smaller, and that fight is also an example of yesterday's setting up a cornerstone for the German factory in Pancheva, worth 160m euros, which will, of course, employ our workers. The opening of factories, the possibility for workers to be employed and to achieve their existence based on work is almost daily, when the government took over, and the people in the democratic process through the elections, believed that this country was run by Aleksandar Vucic and the SNS government and its coalition partners. When it comes to the third law, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, I must point out that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic is the first statesman to publicly appear before the people and meet the citizens of Serbia with the disastrous consequences that this country and this people are waiting for in about 40 years if there is no increase in birth. As responsible statesman Alexander Vukic and as someone who loves her above all else, first of all, his country, which is the Republic of Serbia, he has just done his job by doing it... (Radoslav Milojic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40521	Excuse me, colleague Milanka. My colleague Milojičić, I now draw your attention to respecting the provisions of Rule 106 of Rule 3 so as not to apply the provisions of Article 108. (Radoslav Milojić): Do you hear what they are earning? I give you a warning, Mr. Milojich. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to injure the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Milanka, just ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40522	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm really sorry. The question of population policy shouldn't be the subject of these bickerings, but it speaks more of them than of us again. In fact, a decline in the birth rate has been recorded in Serbia for 70 years. For the past 26 years, it's not about the fall of birth, it's about the white plague, which means that many more faces die than they are born. In that sense, it was necessary to take immediate measures, because these measures, certainly which take their results, will not be taken for 10 to 20 years. The concern of birth is the care of the survival of the state, the care of the survival of the nation, i.e. In addition to economic issues, the main issue of this country and the issue is raised by the first Aleksandar Vukic, whether someone liked it or not. And he was the first to form a advice to deal with this problem, and of course the government adopted a strategy to encourage birth, of course she also made an action plan, and as one part of that strategy is exactly today the law that lies before us. Thanks to SNS and Alexander Vukic's responsible economic policy, the country's financial consolidation was primarily carried out, as the country's "yellow company" was bankrupt in 2012. Except for the financial consolidation, the dollar is like a steady currency. He's worth another currency today in the world. At the time of the "yellow company", the dinar was the fourth worst currency of 186 countries in the world. Inflation is stable, moving within the target range, the growth of gross domestic product only in the first quarter of this year is 4.5% of investments occur every day and Serbia is the leader by investment. It's pre-conditions. Economic development is a prerequisite in fact for taking the first step of such incentive measures, which are heading towards fostering birth and towards improving the birth rate in the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that this law for the first time has increased the scope of women, mothers, who can use the right to maternity leave. At the time of the "yellow company", farmers, owners of the agricultural land, of course, had no right to do so. They now have women farmers and those who work on occasional and temporary jobs and who work on the basis of work contracts and those that work on the basis of an author's contract, etc. The support measure for the birth of the first child is 100,000 dinars. It pays off one time. For the second child, the support measure is 10,000 per month over a two-year period. For a third child, the support measure is 12,000 per month for a period of 10 years and for a fourth child, the support measures are 18,000 in a time period also of 10 years. Of course, this is just one of the instruments to encourage birth and, of course, it is the right of parents to decide how large their family will be. Of course, it is the right for the mother to first of all have the right to decide on birth, but it is also the right for us, the MPs and the SNS to point out the negative consequences that this may lead to. All other SNS laws will certainly support in the voting day, because they are also in order to further develop our country and to improve the quality of life of all citizens of society, I hope the most pregnant women, future mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40523	Thank you. We are moving on to the list of MPs in order to be reported. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40524	Ladies and gentlemen, the laws offered are certainly a significant step forward and a clear effort has been made to improve the topic they are dealing with, so the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the voting day will mostly support the proposed legislative solutions, by having certain suggestions. First of all, about the law on financial support for families with children, because it's about the topic I've talked about here and I've stood up for, exactly this step that's been made here, where it's been offered to support those mothers who want to have babies and families, to make it easier for them to raise children and families. However, what falls into my eyes is that there may not have been enough sensitivity for the target group itself, mothers, just the ones they want to give birth to, because underlining the traits from the entry into force of this law, or from July 1st and leaving out all those mothers who have given birth to four or more children, who have been conscious and willing to give birth, without this motivation and incentive, they remain beyond the possibility of getting an incentive, or compensation by the number of children they have given birth, which is also from an ethical aspect, but in general from the aspect of support of just those who want to give birth quite discriminatory. Also, limiting motivation, i.e. incentives to the fourth child, is also problematic because we leave out those mothers, champions who give birth to five, six, seven and eight children and who have done so and are likely to do so without incentives. So we can notice here that we're going to re-force those mothers who may not be born, and leave out a significant number of those who want to give birth. So this should be reconsidered and the shortcomings corrected at some next time. Also, when we follow certain conditions to get support for mothers, the question of citizenship for the mother is also questionable, because if you have a Serbian citizen's father you have a child who was born, a Serbian citizen and a mother who came, either from Albania or wherever the children are born, the citizens of this country will be deprived of this support. So here we have a very significant number, mostly those mothers that actually come to those parts where we have the most significant decade in terms of demographics. The issue of preschool education and general school education is that we have a formula to attend education in the Republic of Serbia. So it remains only unclear what, although perhaps an implicit system of churches and religious communities, the educational system of the church, religious communities, is implicitly in the state of Serbia. Just so it doesn't stay unannounced, someone will say tomorrow – well, wait for the state schools, the state kindergartens, and the question of these schools or maybe private schools and kindergartens, etc., so there is some clarification missing. And, I certainly think, regardless of the importance of child vaccination that we have an ethnic problem, and perhaps the constitutional problem of connecting, conditions of child vaccination to these mothers, regardless of what the vaccination is important, but in this way condition, I think it's both discriminatory from both ethnic and constitutional aspects. Now, for the public's sake, I have to say that this time I had to postpone my Friday prayer, which is at one o'clock, I'm going to have to go at two o'clock to so-called. Arabic prayer, i.e. prayer in Arabic, and therefore again I am informing the public and the leadership of the National Assembly that it is necessary to resolve the issue of prayer space for members of Islam, the Islamic community, the MPs here in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40525	The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40526	Of course, I would like to thank the esteemed Mr Zukorlic for the contribution he makes as an MP on topics that are very important for the stabilisation of the family, for stimulating birth, for the population and the most intelligent policy. He really does it in one way that in many segments he fits into the attitudes that were here yesterday and today's words. But I'd have to say that the formal legal act from which this measure comes out of which we are today pleading and analyzed is a strategy to encourage birth. The term of inciting birth means actually encouraging couples, encouraging mother to make her decision through a whole series of stimulating measures be positive. It is she who decides when, whether to give birth, and a whole series of measures, including this financial one that encourages the birth of the first, second, third, fourth child, is the topic of the talks and the debate we are having. Why did we propose to encourage birth to go to the fourth birth of a child? Because the World Health Organization of Science and the Educational System makes it very clear, I said it yesterday, but it was simply not all MPs, and it may not be a waste to repeat, they say that birth to a fourth child is in the interest of and the health of the mother, and everything that is harmful to the health of the mother and child through that number. So we had to simply take a view of science, profession, above all medical professions and recommendations of experts when we opted for this number, and of course we think that a whole series of other measures, but that are not stimulating. So population and social policy are still different. Most of our families with a large number of children certainly should have social support and many local environments and on a national basis, many of these acts are regulated. However, today we are talking about inciting birth, we are talking about today's Strategy to encourage birth, which was adopted in December 2017 and the Action Plan that arises from it and we are regulating legally that this must be an obligation, even through the numerical value of the amount of money that goes to children for their standard. Of course the child is the bearer of this right, but up to 10 years of use and in the interest of the child, they have a parent who takes care of the child. This child who receives these funds must be in the system of this country, primarily registered after birth, then, that child must be in the health and education system. The goal is that those children who are not really children who are not involved in our system are included in the state system, because caring about their health, caring about their education is actually the obligation of the state. We can't have insight, nor can we give financial resources to someone who doesn't belong to the state's health and education system, and which criteria you will vote on in the voting day in connection with this, it's a matter for you MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40527	Dear fellow Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Would you like a word, colleague Zukorlic? Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40528	I'd just like an update. I thank you for the clarification you gave, but we do have, as I said, the father of a Serbian citizen, a child reported in the country, a foreign citizen's mother lives here. What about the support of that family, that child? Question, what does the state system mean? You see, if a child attends a kindergarten at a church or an Islamic community, with those kindergartens being recognized by the state, is that the same system? So it's important to me just to know, because I'm going to be asking and I'm already being asked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40529	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40530	The child in the system we really don't share health care in private and state, or share education in private and state, even preschool. It is perfectly understood that everything in the system of the health and education segment of the state that it is absolutely no matter whether it is one or the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40531	Thank you. Comrade Zukorlic, would you like a word? (Muamer Zukorlic: No. Just the first question... ) The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40532	I'm sorry, just please. So, if the mother has the status of a permanent resident, if not, the father can be in charge of taking care of the child. Therefore, it is through him that this child's right is being realized. So, it's not deprived, I'm sorry, I didn't answer, and that's also very important, the child that was born and reported, so that which is in our country's system can be cared for by the father or mother who is constantly staying here and can be a foreign citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40533	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jovan Jovanovic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40534	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that there is no previous announced speaker, because I do not have a third-degree black belt like him and I do not intend to threaten young Alexander Seselj, nor to muddle the son of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, Mr. Danill like him. But he usually rarely comes to this high house. But let's take the turn. I'll say, Mr. Vice President, a few sentences about the War Memorial Act. The aim of this War Memorial Act is to preserve from oblivion bright events and monuments from the history of the Serbian people and the history of national minorities so that young generations can learn about the great struggle of their ancestors for freedom, for their suffering, for their heroism and their limitless devotion to their country's Republic to Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the basic task of moral education besides all else is to raise up in the spirit of patriotism, as the greatest extent of man's morality. That is why the first-class task of educational institutions is ahead of the rest and fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. Just visiting monuments and caring for such monuments and setting them up and keeping them is the first-class assignment of kindergarten, school and college programs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this will contribute to the care of Serbian patriotism which is special to other patriotisms because love for its Serbian people implies that we love and respect other peoples and that is the specificity of Serbian patriotism. In that sense, Serbian patriotism is recognised in the world by many statesmen, by many politicians, by many scientists, by many marshals, generals, writers and soldiers. For example, German Emperor William II said when he sent his army to war against Serbia to his soldiers, I quote: "The Serbs gave the world evidence of high military virtues and the greatest military skills, on flags sprayed with blood they wrote the greatest and brightest victories." Or Augustus Von Makenzen, a German Field Marshal, told his soldiers, quote: “You are not going to the Italian front or the Russian front or the French front, but to fight against a new enemy, a dangerous, tough, brave and sharp. ” Or an example, after its victory by Serbian soldiers in the Colombian Battle of Vienna, it was told General Pocherek that it would be best to commit suicide. The initials returned that he would, I quote, "when he sees that another general defeats the Serbian army." Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the speciality of Serbian patriotism, which makes it specific, is the patriotism of knowledge, what many nations do not have in the world. Let us ask ourselves how many of our country's inhabitants know that the radio receiver, this powerful media weapon today in the world, found a Serb from like Nikola Tesla or how much the population knows that the great technological power of the United States is largely based on inventions, among other things, and Serbian scientists Nikola Tesla, Michael Pupin, Ilia Dvorsky, or that today large cosmic projects are based, ladies and gentlemen, on Tesla's ideas and projects. If we cultivate the patriotism of knowledge, then we will further affirm our nation and the national minorities living in this country. Then it will not happen to us in the future, as we have today's MPs in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or some leaders of political parties with a lack of patriotism, as scientists would say - a lack of patriotic feelings, such as. Cedomir Jovanovic, called the sniffer, who said on 26.10.2012, quotes: "Republic authorities have treated and are still treating Vojvodina in a corrupt way, and therefore Vojvodina should be given full sovereignty and recognised as an independent country." Is that, ladies and gentlemen, patriotism? Cedo Jovanovic proved that he lacked a patriotic feeling when he said in 23.6. in 2012, I quote: "The Serb Republic was created on the Srebrenica genocide, the greatest crimes unrecorded in Europe after World War II." His opposition colleague Sasa Jankovic, called Sasa Prangi, gave up KIM, which means he has no patriotic feelings. He said on 3.8.2017, quote: "Kosovo and Metohija should be admitted to Interpol, and thus acknowledge, independence." That their colleague, Nenad Canak, called gicos, has a lack of patriotic feelings, says that in 5.3.2017, he said, quote: "I am ready to recognise Kosovo and Metohija independence." If we develop a sense of fostering and preserving monuments from Serbia's Liberation Wars, then we will not have one of the Veselinov, the former Minister of Agriculture of the former DOS, who said on 10 June 2018, quote: "We must work to ensure that the Republic of Vojvodina does not endanger the security of the arrival," I underline, respected citizens of Serbia. I repeat again because of you, respected Serbian citizens, his quote: "we must work to ensure that the Republic of Vojvodina does not endanger the security of the arrival". So what kind of university professor is that? Whose patriotism does he represent? In which, ladies and gentlemen, country in the world can a university professor teach students, work on developing his country? Is that patriotism? Is that the cultivation of traditions and memories? It is also important to plan for school trips to visit Serbia's memorials and Liberation Wars, because it will make it easier for us to contribute to stronger patriotism and patriotic feelings of our students and students, future politicians, so we will not have a Wolf Jeremic, a descendant, who in the absence of these feelings of patriotism, past the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and past the Government of the Republic of Serbia, brought a mission of EULEX to the KIM and asked the question of the International Court of Justice on so-called ". One-sided independence of KIM and thus stabbed in the back not only Serbs in KIM, but also in its own country. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we've heard today from a representative of the opposition regime who said Ratko Mladic is a criminal, and for him, Zoran Djindjic is a hero. I'm just saying that very quickly in the textbooks, what Ratko Mladic said will be found, I quote: "The limits are drawn and stopped in blood, and the country defends by all means. The soldier who gives life for his homeland is not dead, the man who loses the eternal hearth." The second said in May 1999, I quote: "Bombadate Serbia stronger and stronger, Milosevic will fall." Or three days later, "Keep on bombing Serbia more strongly and stronger, you have destroyed hospitals and schools, the trafo stations, in seven days, Milosevic will fall." Ladies and gentlemen, these are really different values. I believe if he comes to power as the speaker who compared these two representatives, he'll probably put the traitors of the state as heroes in textbooks and declare the heroes enemies. That's why this law, ladies and gentlemen, about memorials is very important. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and primarily to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who regained his pride and dignity to the Serbian people and national minorities because he first began to mark glorious dates from Serbia's Liberation Wars after a period of the dark age of the touchy former government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40535	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40536	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I will support all agreements and laws, as well as my colleagues from the Parliament club. Since Mr. Alexic is not present, and part of my discussion is directed towards him, I will still wait a little while in the final word as an authorised representative to say something I think about these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40537	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40538	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, this session today is scheduled with a agenda that is already well-known, which is that a large number of laws, which are essential to the lives of citizens and concerning their existence, their social security, families, etc., are accumulated at one point in the agenda, so that, of course, as MPs, we do not have the opportunity to talk to them with due attention, and each of these laws, which is on the agenda of this session, deserves a serious, serious debate. This adds to the fact that, at the very top of the agenda, there is a law that does not belong in its nature to this group of laws and does not really share anything in common with them, which is a law on war memorials, which should actually mask a number of important issues, which we, as MPs, especially in the amendment debate, want to discuss with you from most of us. So I'm going to talk first about these laws in the field of work and the areas to protect the family, and then I'm going to go back to this law that you put as the first point within this common agenda. First of all, I'd like to say something about this law on simplified employment on seasonal affairs in certain activities. Since 2014, when amendments and additions to the Labour Act have been made, we have been speaking from the DS over and over again a criticism of the authorities, and this is why do you constantly dissipate the subject of the labour law? Why do certain topics constantly raise certain questions, a group of questions are from the Labour Act, and they regulate special laws? This trend is very well known and it is neoliberal and there are many countries in which today, I would say, ideology, primarily economic policy is applied, and it produces the following consequences -- it creates one very large confusion amongst all those who need to apply the Labour Act and similar laws, and in particular it creates very great uncertainty among all those whose labour rights should be protected and protected, because workers, employees, are very under-informed about their rights, and they find it difficult to meet the sea rules that exist. Again, with regard to 2014, when we passed the Labour, Change and Supplement Act, you brought it, you said yourself - there is no agency law, temporary employment, and this law has been in the plan of each government since 2014, and this has not yet reached the agenda of our Assembly and is constantly forming one, so another working group on one issue that is very important and a large number of our citizens and citizens are working precisely through these agencies and still acts and does not exercise their rights in one gray zone. Now, we're passing this law on the simplified employment of seasonal workers who have, as the legislator of the law says, one task, which is to reduce the gray zone, or to reduce the work on black, or to reduce the level of gray economy in the country. And that is, of course, one task that is to support, one goal that everyone in this society should support because our goal is for everyone who works to pay taxes, and yes, on the other hand, and all those who work by law to have a normal competition and to work on equal terms. However, we have a few problems here. This law confirms one thesis that we have been presenting for a long time, which is that the government claims it wants to contribute to the creation of new jobs in employment and that it wants to create a better, working, business climate for employers. Our belief is that, by adopting the strictest neoliberal principles in its operation, this government is actually doing everything to employers at will, not asking in which way the rights of citizens, i.e. the rights of employees, will be protected or in what way it will be threatened. This is a very important question. This law concerns people who may be the most vulnerable, because they are hard to employ, because their approach to the labour market is very small, because it does not possess qualifications. It's the paramedics. The law stipulates that a seasonal worker, i.e. a trustee, will be considered to have concluded an oral contract on work the moment he enters service. I think that all those who know little about the right, know what is and what is the characteristic of the oral agreement, the oral agreement, but when you look at the very provisions of this law, you wonder how it will apply in practice and how you will provide those people who very often have a low level of literacy, etc., to exercise those rights. It says here that at the request of a seasonal worker, the employer will be betrayed by a certificate of employment. So, on request. If he doesn't know he has to ask for that certificate at all, which he probably won't know, he won't have it. In what way will he exercise his right to compensation? It is said that the fee will be paid at the end of the day or if otherwise agreed at another time. So, if the oral agreement is reached on a different deadline, it will be possible in ten days or twenty days, how will this right be achieved if the employer simply tells the worker – now go home, you are no longer needed, and this one did not ask for confirmation... Yesterday, the minister told us -- a seasonal worker will be able to check on the portal to see if the employer reported it. Well, they're people of poor literacy. They're hard to sign, let alone go to some portals. Let's have some awareness of the reality we're talking about and where we live. So to support it is the idea to introduce more laws here, but also more justice, or more respect for individual rights. That's what's very important to us. I think it's very important that we keep this in mind. This law is now passed before this season of large agricultural works. We know that we have a large number of inflows of employees usually in August and September because of agricultural work. The question arises how will the success of this law be measured. My assessment is and my concern is, were alive and saw, that next year we will have amendments and additions to this law due to serious violations of labour rights and serious problems that this law will produce. There is another question – how will we statisticalally regulate the analysis of the application of this law, as it is said, which is correct, that during the course of the performance of the work, the seasonal worker is not deleted from the employee records, nor is payment of the cash compensation suspended during temporary unemployment? Will he, on the other hand, be considered an employee at the same time or not, according to the rules of the labour survey? So some questions of practical nature are being asked. I think it would be important to get answers to those questions. As for the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, I think anyone who knows what kind of society we live in, where the risk of poverty is enormous, that every year the number of citizens and citizens and children who need social assistance is growing, since, regardless of the government's alleged efforts to create new jobs for people, we have, of course, all the awareness and knowledge that a huge number of people are working for minor salaries and minor earnings and that it is difficult to live on. So any measure that has the task of financially supporting and facilitating people's lives, of course, should be supported. In this sense, I support indeed the efforts of Minister Djukic – Dejanovic, with the whole strategy on inciting birth. I think that's important and that might be one of our most important, I would say, patriotic subjects and that it's much more important than some others, which are often imposed on us as such. However, one question is raised here – in which way, Madam Minister, I know that you are serious when you make these plans, since we have known each other for a long time and we have worked together, how did you plan to monitor the application of this law and its effects, in which periods, how did you plan and what were the indicators and measures for measuring the effectiveness of this law, and will we be able to, for example, from the moment we adopt it, have an overview of what the effects it has made? Why am I asking you this? Because, especially this parental supplement, it is one measure that is not clear to whom it is actually intended, whether parents or children, because the provisions of the law provide a contradictory answer to that question and the next question is asked. You have one help, and we mean that children are born into one family in a relatively short period of time, two, three children, I guess, in six, seven years, they come into the world, but a big blow for parents and for families comes when they go to school, schooling, etc. We have some measures that have been tasked, also, to help children, to the family precisely with the intention of incentives and demographic opportunities lifted, simply. These are, for example, free textbooks that were similar to that intended for their children, because all children have the right to free education under the Constitution. So, my question -- have you thought about how to comply with the measures in that later age of family life and children's development? I think that's very important. When we talk about demographics and when we talk about the opportunities that exist in our society, yesterday Minister Djordjevic told us that we should now make videos about it, of course, what it means to be a happy family, that it is not a dog but a married couple with children. Of course, these are good measures, and everyone should support them, and many countries have done so. However, the main climate exists in society. We have, of course, a decline in the birth rate of many factors, but let's not lose sight of the exodus of young people from here starting in the 1990s due to the consequences of the disastrous policy that was then led. And then we lose one generation, now we lose another generation of young people who go abroad in huge numbers and percentages. And now that you look at those young people, they don't compete, they don't compare with their peers here anymore. They are part of the global world and they compare with their peers outside this country, in Europe, in America, in the developed world. When you ask them – what's not good here, they tell you – we don't see how we can overcome reality show, information that we find relevant, one hate speech, one intolerance, one inability to develop in person. So what represents one dominant social, media climate, etc., which, of course, is one way of forming and making them make certain decisions about their lives. So the general climate is also important. I think that's not enough work and that throughout our media content and through everything that's shown here as important, really important in that dominant sense, one very negative message is actually being sent to young people. And that's something I just think is an essential question. In the end of this law, I don't have time to talk about the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, I'd have a Law on War Memorials. We have submitted several amendments, too, but we will not be able to withstand the competition of a huge number of very unacceptable SNS amendments to this law, but what seems very bad to us is that this advice is planned to form dominantly. Four out of seven members of the council should be of the order of the state administration, and they should decide on very important issues, including the removal of war memorials. That part of the removal of war memory is not explained in the law at all, we do not know exactly what is meant by it, given the great influence of the administration in this council and the intention of removing war memorials, it creates one impression of great manipulations and abuses of various authorities, so perhaps yours, after some others, which will make very self-performing and without sufficient professional influences of information and criteria to make decisions about it. In that sense, we have submitted various amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40539	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40540	Every ministry and, of course, the government has a plan of activity. The resolution ministry and the government have a plan for the last quarter of 2018 to be the time when a law on a employment agency will be passed that regulates labour-saving. It is in the plan and it is right to ask the question of the honourable letter. In line with the EU's accession chapters, seasonal work has been singled out from the Labour Act and in the EU countries, and simply this model is something that justifies its existence in countries that already have a tradition of such solutions as we are now solving. And what's further important is that the seasonal worker never loses his jobless status. This is not envisaged anywhere and it remains unemployed if such status was before any of its rights and obligations are regulated by this law. What is also interesting, or important, is your question about indicators under the application of the Financial Support Act to the family with children. You know, the number of users and the number of children will be monitored every year. However, demographic indicators that are incomparably wider than this indicator, mean actually the right result for a long time and within other measures. I would remind you that the 2030 UN Agenda is a document that, from 20 to 30 years of age, along with 17 targets and 169 sub-targets, has 232 indicators on which the Republic of the Statistical Office, and in terms of reconciliation, works very hard and that a huge number of these indicators relate to the quality of life and family, poverty reduction, any other issues that we have mentioned, and which have a direct and indirect relationship with your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40541	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40542	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected minister with associates, citizens and citizens who listen and follow us, we today and today at this high house are discussing a set of very important laws, laws that change the lives of all citizens and citizens of Serbia. I would firstly single out amendments and additions of the Financial Support Act to families with children, as the proposal to amend and supplement this law defines the amounts, defines how to pay and coordinate parental tasks with the goal of raising the birth rate. The essence of this law on financial support for families with children is not that in any way, any woman is denied the right to decide on birth. The essence of this law is to create conditions for raising birthrights. The concern of birth is the concern of each of us and the formation of the ministry you run, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, for me, was the first step in solving, in addressing this problem and predicting and applying short- and long-term measures to raise birth. Unfortunately, there is no responsibility that the 2008 birth strategy remains a dead letter on paper, as there are no arguments in this high home that in any way the government proposes can put in a different plan. As a society and state, we are responsible for the harsh statistics that are progressive and that warns us that progress in GDP, growth of GDP in economic reforms has no effect unless we stop a progressive decline in birth. In this regard, I would particularly like to point out that it is very important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia allocated 130 million grants to local self-government last year, and this year 600 million. I know you've worked very hard on it and what local self-government, given the specificities they need to get these funds. For the incentive of birth in addition to these very important short- and long-term measures, it is important as society and the state to work on security, to continue creating conditions for people to work and to live and work from their work. Unemployment, to remind ourselves, was 28% in 2008. We've managed with responsible measures to reduce it to 14% at this point. The state also began to build cheap apartments for members of the police and the military. I believe that this policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue, that it will include both educational workers and doctors and many young people who intend to leave the country, that it will be an incentive to stay in Serbia and fight for it. I must point out Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic that women today are very burdened by the work of the house, the care of children, the care at work and the burden at work, and that this must be done to introduce service activities. Our policy in the coming period must be focused on actually focusing on women, making it easier for women to be encouraged not only to have one child, but also to be a mother for the second and third time. As the main reasons for less childbearing, besides financial reasons, parents also cite an insufficient number of different benefits and services to support families with children, especially in villages, separating, above all, the inaccessibility of kindergartens, educational institutions, children's doctors, and above all, the lack of both sports and cultural content. I must point out that many measures of population policy do not depend solely on money. Here I would highlight flexible working hours, adapting kindergartens to the work of parents, which I believe is one of our next phases in inciting birth. Also, I must point out that it is very important to support the state for single parents. They're facing one big problem, they can't charge the judgments of unconscious parents who don't pay child support. It's not the courts' fault, because the courts judge it. They suggest that the state take the risk and responsibility, i.e. the state pays child support to single parents and then asks unwitting parents for that money. With great success, I would personally consider that with financial consolidation, for example. Every third child in the family is allowed free kindergarten. As a educator, I must point out that parenting is very complex and that young parents need constant support in parenting, it is necessary that my fellow psychologists and educators with young parents work constantly to overcome the problems they have in parenting, both in kindergartens and elementary schools and in parenting schools. In the end, I have to say that in this process of raising the birth rate, the role of the media is very important, and to point out that a single daily has been running a positive campaign for months now with a view to how to make us a million more. As regards the Law on the Employment of Seasonal Workers, the paper is an electronic reception through the Tax Administration, as well as additional protection of the rights of seasonal workers, such as The right to compensation for every moment of work, the right to safety and health at work, but in my opinion, the main essence of this law is the fact that 30,000 workers in agriculture who are currently registered, that they are in the black zone, should move into legal flows. It is important, I see, and the solution is that for the first time it is envisaged that the employer may be a natural person, carrier or a member of the agricultural land that deals with agricultural production, and thus for the first time the possibility is opened and that the natural persons involved in agricultural production can, as an employer, engage seasonal workers. Finally, for 40 years, the state of Serbia has been waiting for the War Memorial Act. It's something we owe our heroes and our heroines, who gave their lives for the freedom we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40543	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go, colleague Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40544	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected members of the Ministry, I am authorized in front of various organizations of military disabled people to speak of these two laws, as well as the Memorial Act. I personally have several hundred of my own fighters among the military's disabled. That's why this problem is very personal to me. Right now, I want to express my first position, the requirement of military people with disabilities is for these two laws to be withdrawn from the procedure. I know that's not going to happen and that most will vote these laws, and that's why I want to state my views and attitudes of the military disabled. Gentlemen, yesterday, heavy military disabled people spoke with the president of the state, and immediately thereafter with the Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Policy. They have made their views known, and those views, as soon as this law is spoken of, are not adopted. When I spoke to the minister twice, I understood the minister's problem that these two laws put out the fire. But you, gentlemen of the Ministry, are responsible for why that fire occurred. If for 30 years there is a practice for disabled persons to be determined on the basis of the average salary of the previous month, how could you allow these, I say, new ways of accounting in the statistical office? That's what I'm saying because I think you're one of the most important ministries in the country. You are the biggest users of the budget, and this statistical office should work perhaps the most for you. How could you let today, in the computer era, come up with that problem? You had to see that coming. Well, for 30 years, gentlemen, when the ink pen was determined by the percentage and the average salary for the previous month, it was always done by the 25th of the month, and now it takes 55 days to determine that average. You have to understand that military people with disabilities are a special category in this society, and heavy military people with disabilities, they're something that needs to be respected. You know they're under a hundred in the state and they don't complain about their incomes, but they're sensitive when they're touched by the law, and these laws, or by the decision of the Minister of March of the month, are touched by that right. Now these two laws need to be introduced into the law, i.e. mutilated by an illegal decision. The minister explained it to me, I understand him going through various budgets, etc. By the end of the year, the disabled won't be damaged. But, gentlemen, if this principle of not touching the rights of military people is broken once, then they suspect that even tomorrow when you start working on a new law, you'll do it again. And they have another practice. So the documents exist, the rights exist by law, but they don't come true. You know, when it comes to orthopedic aids, that's the problem. Some aids are not produced in the country, others have helped together, and your ministry is obliged to find a way for military disabled people to get what is legally theirs. Gentlemen, you must respect more than ever the military disabled, especially those who are severely disabled in war. I was in three wars. What I've done for this country in three wars is nothing compared to what the heavy military disabled have done for this country. They literally gave everything – youth, health, life, and you must first keep in mind when you do anything when they are military disabled. The minister says you're starting to work on a new law. If at least 50% of the members of that committee are not from the ranks of military people with disabilities, then it's a useless job for you. Public debates, gentlemen, you yourself know it's pro-forma. I was with some of you at those public hearings. If you just rely on the force of the majority, whatever you suggest will be voted upon, then your relationship with the military disabled is not good and not moral. Gentlemen, I'm not going to say that our laws, or the Law of Fighters, are not good for military people. He, even in comparison with laws in countries around him, is good and you who work on it, disabled people don't ask you to invent anything new. If there is anything in four different laws, they ask that you, gentlemen, unite it into one law. Maybe there's only four, five things to solve. So it's no problem to pass a new law at all. It means that from these existing laws, where good solutions are good, they only unite into one law under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying, just four, five more questions, because of the time I don't talk about what these questions are, they're not even very big, and we're going to have one of the best laws, and it's going to be military people who are disabled. You have to consult them in the draft laws, because if it's just one member, then it's pro form. I say again we have, we don't even have a very big problem compared to the surrounding countries. What should the Republika Srpska do that has 24,000 dead and 40,000 military people with disabilities? We have under 10,000 military invalids and we have, you better know how many more rights holders, maybe 12,000. It's not even a burden for the state. You know that military people die, even now at 10% per year, because most of them are from World War II, that from these wars we may have 4,000-5,000 of all military people with disabilities. So, gentlemen, it's not about means, it's about goodwill. Something else, gentlemen, I want to tell you, but you really need to take care of that. All these laws, regardless of whether they're from the SFRY, whether they're from the SRJ, and now what you're proposing, begin, says the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters. Gentlemen, I now order you in the name of a fighter, wipe the fighters out of the law, or lay them in the law. I propose, at the end of the day, I have proposed this law and it is in the Assembly, in your ministry, that you do, when you are making the law, only the law on military people with disabilities and civil disabilities, and then you do the law on fighters and families of dead and missing fighters, and then you are facing that third law that requires the non-governmental sector, which is looking for Europe, the law on civilian victims of war. Take it all down to one place, I think it's pretty hard. I agree, let this title remain as you have given it, as those before you have given it, and so have those in the SFRY, but speak in the name of the fighters, and in the law, you have no fighting rights, not one given, but more, gentlemen, I am telling you in the name of the fighters will not be able to. Talk to the fighters when you write that bill, so either write a new law on fighters or install rights in these existing laws. All the countries in the environment, it is, gentlemen, a shame, they have a law on fighters. I'm talking about Republika Srpska again. How does that economy support 40,000 military people with disabilities and 24,000 dead and hundreds of thousands of other fighters? They cannot exercise the rights that our military disableds have, but they have written the Law on Fighters, and even the quasi state of Kosovo has, gentlemen, written the Law on Fighters. Who are we, gentlemen, and who are all of us sitting here for 27 years ignoring the fighters who created this country and every country of the 20th century or from Karajord to today? If Serbia was able in the First Balkan War to regulate all issues a month after the war, to give 400,000 medals to participants in the First Balkan War, to regulate the dead, to regulate the disabled, and we are talking about great successes, and for 27 years we have been ignoring fighters, saving on fighters, saving on their blood. According to my budget, based on the bill I wrote with my fighters, I'm not saying it's good, but at least it's hard, so you've saved a billion euros on the blood of the fighters, gentlemen. I guess that's enough. I guess it's time to write a law on fighters. Think carefully, when you're making these commissions, about morality. Think about the future of this country, because we can talk about Europe, about the world, about peace, about being neutral, but tomorrow it might take someone to defend Serbia again. What message do we give to younger generations when in 27 years we are unable to pass one such law? I thought I told you that you could understand what you needed to do. Let me just say more about the Memorial Act. Why won't the SRS vote for him? Gentlemen, in Article 2, point 2) you're talking about prisons and captivity. Yes, the Serb people, Serbian fighters died in prisons and in captivity, but millions of Serbs died in concentration camps, and you didn't put it here. These are concentration camps in the First World War of Austria, across Europe, Slovakia, Hungary, Austria. These are World War II concentration camps. Millions of Serbs were killed in them, and in prisons, tens of thousands of Serbs were killed. Why are you gentlemen avoiding the term concentration camp? Some German clerk, probably, who reads the law... You're scared. What I do with this government, with our statesmen, who, after all, are ashamed of their own shadows. They were concentration camps and they should write there, and you write about prisons and captivity. Secondly, gentlemen, we've given it up in the amendments, when it comes to members of the council, we're asking it to increase by one member and be a representative of the SPC. Why? Because the SPC also has records, in particular records for various sites where our people have been killed, and therefore it is necessary to respect that fact and therefore, in the composition of that commission, the council should also be a representative of the SPC. If you respect that while this debate is taking place, we will consider voting on this law, because this law is necessary in any case, the records are required. And most importantly, in fact, it is of all things to write down all the Serb people's sites, and by reading this law and looking at some other cards, there are them, not across Europe, you can say freely throughout the world. But some of the things I've shown you, though, you either need to explain, or you need to respect and put into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40545	Thank you, colleague Delic. The word has a minister, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40546	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, number of users per type of user and rights per day 20. 12. In 2017, the following is: there are military people with disabilities in Serbia 13.795, family disability users, and there are 10.664, civil invalid wars with 1,050, monthly income users, there are 6,020. Of course, military people with disabilities are wartime, peacetime, totaling 13,795 and changes in the way statistics were never allowed to go to the heart of the reduction of all rights of military disabled people. That's exactly why this law is being passed. And if there were certain financial damages for any disabled person, at the end of the year it's compensated. So it is precisely the tendency of today's debate and the passing of this law not to diminish any rights of a military invalid and that the monthly compensation should not be less. On the other hand, when it comes to orthopaedic aids, it is not disputed that orthopedic aids will be given in a way that has been allocated so far. However, if someone changes the orthopedic aid, he must go out on the commission, that and the profession to assess what is possibly the new orthopedic aid that is most vulnerable to the person concerned. As far as the new law is concerned, it will practically be a codification of the existing law and there will also be no reduction of any single right, and certainly all representatives will participate in the commissions, not symbolically but essentially.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40547	Thank you. Comrade Delic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40548	I wouldn't call it a replica. Yesterday, in his address, Mr. Minister said, and it is seen by wartime people as a key point of view, that there will be no reduction of rights in the drafting of the new law. Well, gentlemen, what the minister said, that's what we're looking for. And we think it's a key principle that should be adhered to in law-making. And we're gonna follow it and it's okay. The information you provided, they're probably correct, the gentlemen gave you the exact information. The only thing about the 6,000 is the fee for unemployed military people with disabilities. I always look at it differently – they are disabled from the sixth to the tenth categories and I would like them to be less, i.e. the state to work harder, and to provide employment for a number of people with disabilities. I think there are even some legal norms when it comes to companies, but especially when it comes to state authorities, public enterprises, etc. It should, however, be ensured by the ministry through its organs, that some shifts are made. Otherwise, I agree with this. But when I was talking about these orthopedic aids, there's a number of military people with disabilities, even the heaviest categories, who've lost their eyes. That's the problem. Say, those orthopedic shoes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40549	Thank you, colleague Delic. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40550	A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs is now on the agenda and a proposal for a law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities. This law regulates a simplified way of working and paying taxes and contributing to work in the agriculture, forestry, fruit growing, fisheries, etc. due to its specific characteristics and conditions of seasonal work. It should be said that the employer is an entrepreneur who, under this law, performs business in those sectors and has registered agricultural land. In order to carry out this work, he needs to hire other persons, workers, or seasonal workers, while paying compensation for the work done. Also, individuals under the age of 18 can be employed only if they are medically capable and have the written consent of parents. Foreigners, who are on Serbian territory at the time of seasonal affairs, can also be hired. The work done on the mob is not subject to the application of this law. Seasonal jobs are those that only take place at a certain time, during the calendar year, such as sowing, planting, swimming, harvesting, cutting fruit trees, pastures, etc. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(8). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which also regulates the system in the field of working relations. The grey economy and informal employment are the leading challenges Serbia faces. Undeclared workers have been deprived of pension and health insurance rights, and the state has been suspended because they cannot collect taxes and contribute. Companies operating legally have far higher costs than those dealing with the gray economy. Taxes relate to the income tax of citizens and contributes to pension and health insurance. Thus, employers paying the minimum labour price to seasonal workers on average must pay the state 10,197 dinars per employee, counting taxes and contributions. Entrepreneurs, and those strong entrepreneurs, there's more and more in Vojvodina. They need a seasonal workforce. You haven't been able to find a parole officer in Vojvodina for a long time because no one's interested in work. And those who want to work, who are interested, simply blackmail entrepreneurs who pay them 300 dinars an hour on black. I hope that by applying this law with paid contributions and taxes and a tax card of 143 dinars, which is neither small nor much, it will bring order in this area for relations. A seasonal worker's employer will have to report it by ten o'clock when he starts working and logs it out same time as ten o'clock when his employment with the employer ceases. Seasonal workers can work for up to six months during the calendar year, but that work doesn't have to be continuous. A oral agreement is concluded for work and it cannot last longer than 12 hours a day with a break of at least 30 minutes. An employer has to renew his application every month for every seasonal worker. In this way both the employer and the seasonal worker will be motivated to be registered because the employer will reduce the cost of hiring by introducing an E portal, as the monthly cost will be 6,060 dinars, not as in the case of a temporary and occasional deal that would be 11,650 dinars. I would also take the opportunity to thank all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, friends and fellow citizens, my Sombors, who supported and condemned me the threatening and disturbing letter sent to me and to my family and children because I advocate the preservation of the identity of the Bunjevac National Minority. This threatening letter will not hesitate me at all because I truly believe that all national minorities have the same rights and that there must be no assimilation of one minority over another. Once again, thank you all for the support that means a lot to me at these moments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40551	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai. She's not present. The word has a folk MP named Milena Corilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40552	Dear Vice President, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for families with children. Although the basic text was adopted half a year ago, although I believe that such a practice should be avoided that the laws change over a short period of time after adoption, in this case we can all agree that this is a legitimate move, especially if it is given the fact that the adopted and currently applicable text of the law has not yet started to apply, that is, to be applied since 1 July, where such a procedure can be justified by the desire to fully improve the legal text before the very beginning of its application. I will not linger on some technical improvements and corrections relating to the calculation of the basis of planned fees and fees. What is of importance is the amendment planned in Article 23 of the existing legal text, which refers to parental supplements. Instead of the general provision so far, which envisioned that the height and method of harmonisation and payment is prescribed by the Government, a precise amount of these payments will now be prescribed. They are foreseen in different amounts and in the dynamics of payment from a one-time payment of 100,000 dinars for the first child, up to a monthly payment of 18,000 dinars over 10 years from birth, for the fourth child. What is important is that the amendments to the same article provide that these amounts will be corrected twice a year with the movement of the consumer price index in the country, so they will be secured from potential depreciation. The procedure for applying for the exercise of rights is extremely simplified and will be possible, but at the birth of a child in a health institution by electronic means. On the other hand, Articles 24 and 25 provide for certain restrictions, i.e. the situation in which these fees will be suspended, and they are related to the elemental requirements, compliance with existing legal provisions in the care and training of children, such as the regular attendance of preschool and school classes, vaccinations, as well as the requirement for the residence of parents and children in Serbia. Article 12 of the proposed amendments and additions, stipulates that the rights to parental allowances for children born in the period from December of last year to June of this year will be brought into line with the amounts foreseen for children born after 1 July, so that their position after the entry into force of this law will be improved, which is good. Given this change, I think it is a good thing that these amounts are now set by law and thus protected from some ease of change or abolition in the future, thus showing seriousness and intention to endure to this extent of population policy. It is also important, which has seen the need to find a formula to protect against potentially devalue the value of these donations, which is of great importance to future parents who will be able to plan their family budgets with a higher degree of certainty. Of course, it's always a key question, heights and amounts of these givings, and could they be bigger? I'd certainly like to, and especially the pensioners of my grandparents, to make these amounts as big as possible. However, you must have in mind and realistic opportunities, or economic power to pay off. Also, these rights of monetary giving will not exclude stimulating measures from a local level that, as far as I know, exist in a different volume in our municipalities. In some municipalities, this is especially commendable because they are very tall, not tall, can never be high, but are beautiful amounts, so that all of this should give one decent support that should encourage young people to create a family and give birth. In this respect, the PUPS parliamentary group will give its support for the adoption of this legislative proposal, as well as other laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40553	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Are you talking to a colleague? (Jorge Komlenski: No. I thank you. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40554	Thank you. There are a lot of laws that deserve attention, but my time is limited and I will look back on a few of them. The draft law on war memorials, our parliamentary group on them has a globally positive position, because it is a new law, however, full of certain inconsistencies and unskilled formulations as well as possibilities for abuse. We will say more about this when the debate is in particular, because we will discuss these two members of this law for two days, because the average of one member of the law is daily, but what I am currently interested in, which I would like to explain to me, is a very important issue in Article 19 where the permits and consent issued by the competent authorities in accordance with the regulations in the field of protection of cultural goods in case of plans to build or set up a war memorial within the framework of immovable cultural goods, give them to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and in particular emphasizes the Ministry of Energy. Why is the Ministry of Energy singled out in that case, I don't get it? Why isn't it the Ministry of Environmental Protection, where often national parks are actually memorial centers? That's what I'd like to be explained. The next law I want to say is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Support Act for families with children. So, without a desire to reduce the good intentions of the legislator, I do not think this law will achieve the desired effects aimed at increasing the birth rate in Serbia. This law and all these stimuli, which I don't want to reduce, came late, which they would say in that song, "It's early for sadness, it's late for luck," so it's too early for grief, because we still, thank God we have young people, it's too late for luck, because this law is being passed late. You know, when you do the right thing at the right moment, it causes a positive chain reaction and this law needed to happen much sooner. It wasn't done at the right time, unfortunately the positive reaction is lagging behind and we will continue to have a trend of leaving young people out of the country, which I am very concerned about, as I suppose, all of you. In front of young people, in all generations, there were always some questions that we answered when we were young, and they also had to answer. So when are you going to graduate, when are you going to get a job, when are you going to get married, when are you going to have a baby, and then, when are you going to have another child? Unfortunately, these generations have already stopped on another issue. They don't have an answer to when they're going to get a job and that's the biggest problem. Living in suspense, living in boredom, because not only financial incentives are enough, it takes a good social drive to set up an upgrade. So, the conditions are needed, the care of reproductive health, the need for education, and only then is the financial incentive to do so. I would like the minister, whom I see as willing to deal honestly with this issue, along with us to make a great effort that is not so great, the matter is only a step and a good will. So why not work on reproductive health? Why don't you work on your education? Why don't media outlets, which have national frequencies, broadcast educational programs in this sense, and then we could talk about family care, we could talk about increasing birth rate. So far, looking at couples and watching ads about African plums and commercials about Durex condoms, for which, by the way, young sexually active people don't even have enough resources to buy, so unfortunately, it all ends up. This means that you must enter daily life, that education and worry that it is available, the moment you include a media program that you want to watch or be involved in school. The next law, which I would also like to give my opinion of me about, is a bill on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities. This can only be a positive impulse for seasonal workers' status, but it is really inappropriate to say that this will stand in the way of the gray economy, because the gray economy does not live largely in this area. The gray economy is calculated, in a completely different way, systematically. Will seasonal workers live better or will they just fix statistics on the number of employees? I'd like them to live better. Minister Djordjevic said our citizens are not slaves. No, they're not slaves, but the lumpen proletariat are, because we're at one stage in the original accumulation of capital and it's the citizens of Serbia who suffer very much because of it. What bothered me the same thing in this law, it's that the fact that they're actually... . (President: Time, counterpart Pavlovic. Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... If actually construction workers were seasonal workers, they would have to be taken care of as well. So they get hired, they don't sign up, they're without protective equipment on construction sites, they die on those construction sites. So the inspection has to do its job, not that they're retroactively applying to protect the employer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40555	Thank you. The word has been made by Professor Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40556	All right, the truth works, with regard to the regulation and removal of war memorials, Article 19 point 7) says – a permit and consent should be obtained, issued by the competent authorities in accordance with the regulations governing the area of planning and construction in the field of energy. So these are those power permits, which are simply, whenever you have an object, there's no ministry anywhere, the competent authority is just issuing something that's common when a facility is simply edit, upgrade, build. So you'd be right, but I don't think it's a good interpretation of this article 7. On the other hand, I would quite agree with you that we are much behind on population policy measures for 60 years. In the '50s, experts warned very seriously that we would be in this situation. In 2008, a team of experts made a very decent document called the Birth Encouragement Strategy and that 60, 70 years ago, or in 2008, we would not have taken any step as late as we were. We are not relieved by the fact that other countries of Europe have a similar problem. This really isn't just our problem, but I think it's very important to move on and I totally agree that the education system must be one of the pillars to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40557	Thank you. My colleague Pavlovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40558	If I could get a hold of myself, I'd still like to say something. The education system absolutely yes, but please media services, means something that is present in public every day, in every home, I would, I sincerely ask you, because I see that you have good intentions and you intend to do this in a serious way, to make this joint effort with all of us here present and that this education is done in another way, and not in the most banal way possible, even very ugly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40559	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40560	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as regards the law on amendments to the Law on financial support for the family with children, it should certainly be noted that this support, or such a regulated right to a parental allowance, is guaranteed as one long-term measure of the Republic of Serbia in the fight to increase the birth rate. In view of the fact that the information system that we have received, or in materials, will also be used by the competent authorities of local self-government, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia suggests that communication with local self-government is precisely suggesting the formation of local funds for assistance and treatment of sterileness, such as that of 2000 years ago in Nis. Such a fund, which was named the Trust Fund for Mutual Assistance, has certainly reached those who needed money for these purposes. The then municipality of Nis, and now the town municipality of Mediana, has made and continued the tradition, and this year has allocated eight million and 200 to the most intelligent policy. In this context, 20 couples were financed for out-of-body fertilization, with 200,000 dinars each and every third child, 120 thousand, etc. The town municipality of Medjana, otherwise the fifth in Serbia to allocate money for these purposes. Otherwise, the proposed measures of this law will most favourably ease the unfavourable material position of families with children compared to those without children. In the area of health care, the legal solutions will contribute to a greater scope of immunisation leading to a higher degree of health care. Compared to the education system, solutions under this law will directly affect a higher percentage of children who regularly attend school. New legal provisions will also reflect on the material condition of socially endangered families that are often families with more children. As regards the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, I attended the promotion of the Republic Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution in Nis, on 1 December 2017 in the Chamber of Commerce, where I met myself with the work of the Agency and its competences, which was only one in a series of promotions held in Vrsac, Kragujevac, Kralje, Užica, Ivanjica and Novi Sad. The result of this promotion was that in Nis, in December 2017, 36 individual work disputes were launched and everyone was successfully resolved. That is why it is necessary to continue to promote this institution and the support that I know will be promoted this year in Piroth, Vranj, Kruševec, Sombor, Subotics and Novi Sad. The commitment of the Republic of Serbia to settle working disputes peacefully stems from the revised European Social Charter, which the Republic of Serbia ratified in 2009. The provisions of this Charter establish the obligation of Member States to define in advance the appropriate mechanisms for resolving labour disputes, based on methods of pacifying arbitration, as well as to improve and use them effectively. What is little is known is that according to the International Labour Organisation, the Republic of Serbia and its Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Working Dispute Leaders in this area in Southeast Europe, which is why the International Labour Organisation is holding an international conference in the Republic of Serbia from July 4th to 6th, where it will meet with our practice representatives of the agency and bodies for the peaceful resolution of labour disputes from Bulgaria, Montenegro, Republika Srpska, Macedonia, Romania, Albania and special guests and federal services for intervention and peace from the United States. Just because we've developed something that's a good model and an example, we should continue to develop it in that direction, as well as in the direction of decentralisation, and that one institution like this may be detachable and that these organisational units may be organized for example. in Nis, in Novi Sad, and in Kragujevci. In voting day, the SDPS will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40561	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40562	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers and Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, I would like to start with the first law on the agenda and see what the SNS suggests how we talk about this law and how to improve it. One amendment, MP Dalibor Radcevic -- the War Memorial Act provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to industrialisation. National MP Dragana Kostic -- the Law on War Memorials provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the increase in investment. National MP Goran Pekarski -- the War Memorial Act provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on capacity-building. National MP Vlado Babic - War Memorial Law provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of medical centres. National MP Dusica Stojkovic -- The War Memorial Act provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the functioning of the E-Government. My colleagues from the SNS, I have no other question for you, except that you're not ashamed that we're talking about the law that we need to talk about how the mail will be delivered... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40563	Comrade Jerkov, one moment, please. I'll let you speak, just a moment, to define some things. We are having a debate today in the principle of proposed laws. We are talking about amendments that have been proposed, and we still don't know what amendments will be discussed in detail, so they should first be declared by the resolution committees, and then we should discuss the amendments. Please speak of what the topic of the current assembly is. Please sign in now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40564	Vice President Milicevic, I understand very well how the assembly procedure works. I'm talking about the amendments that have been proposed and I'm asking my colleagues how they were not ashamed to propose such amendments to the law that we should discuss about the fighters who fought for this country, who were killed, who did everything to make our history light, to be a country that fought on the right side in all wars. Despite the fact that we didn't get an answer today from Minister Djukic Dejanovic, nor Minister Djordjevic, we asked several times yesterday what the Liberation Wars that Serbia waged, whether we have a consensus on what wars were liberating, which were not liberating, whether we know what wars Serbia took part in, in which wars it won, in which wars it lost, how the names of those people will remain listed. Of course, it is clear who led the policy that brought us into the wars of the 1990s and which eventually led to the country that was created in one of the wars that Serbia should be proud of, eventually in the streams of blood falling apart, in which the deaths of these people will be marked, and where the responsibility of those who brought the greatest shame to Serbia and made of us the people that are still being talked about as a criminal people. It seems to me that from these amendments we see that this concern for fighters, the concern for war memorials is quite hypocritical, just as it is hypocritical and caring for superiors, and we need to deal with them, because due to the Law on Agricultural Land, which is the same government, however, in a slightly different composition, suggested, and the Assembly in previous co-operation with the same majority as it is now adopted, our farmers, I think of the couples in Vojvodina, will either have a choice to work as an adversaries on agricultural land that the SNS without competition, without bidding, without public invitation, without criteria assigning to their business partners and their officials or relatives of their officials or will have to stop dealing with agriculture. So, the contractors are going to be more and more, the ones who've been working on the land that was owned by the state so far, now they're going to have to work as contractors on your business partners' land.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40565	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. counterpart Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, as an authorised representative of the SNS, is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40566	Thank you. First of all, I must say that SNS MPs and how responsible they approach their work, when it comes to the submission of the amendment. With all due respect, we treat all those who gave their lives to live in a free country today. Of course, it is the right of every MP to submit an amendment, including a member of the SNS. That's one thing. The second thing, as far as our amendments are concerned, is that, of course, it is only today that we can talk about Serbia's overall development. Yes, only today is it possible to talk about it, because memorial centres, apart from the cultural heritage that they represent and which are part of the identity of this people, can also represent very important tourist centres, and tourism seems to be one of the branches of the economy that contributes to the growth of GDP and, of course, the improvement of Serbia. These are the reasons why SNS MPs, respecting the Rules of Procedure, submit amendments. As for those who gave their lives for Serbia's freedom, I must say that the Serbian people participated in the Liberation Wars, that we are proud of our ancestors and our liberating tradition, that Serbia is an anti-fascist country and that Serbia fought with its army against fascism and all that was negative. One more thing to say, in 2015, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40567	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40568	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to me that certain MPs from the opposition are unable to look back on their successes while they were in power. I am sorry, above all, for the citizens that we from the previous regime do not have so many positive things that we can point out, but that is why I can talk about positive things and work now, the government of the Republic of Serbia. I will speak today in the principle debate on proposals from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, but I will point out how the co-operation of this ministry and the units of local self-government can have positive effects on citizens and results relating above all to social policy. That the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a good social policy also shows the latest data from Nis, the Social Labour Centre, which talk about reducing the number of beneficiaries of financial social assistance. There are now 8,431 social support providers in Nis, or so many families receive financial assistance. Compared to the same period last year, it's a lot less family with a trend in further decline. What follows the reduction in the number of social assistance users is the reduction in the number of unemployed persons, according to Niš's branch office. The most common reason for losing the right to social assistance is the employment of a household member. In 2012, for example, there were 33,000 unemployed persons, and the number of social assistance users was higher. So it was over 12,000. Now the number of active jobseekers in the last few years is the smallest, and the trend of reducing the number of social assistance users continues. This is the result of the measures carried out by the city and carried out by the National Employment Service in such a way that certain funds are allocated to be introduced into some form of employment. Another important thing I would like to point out is that the City of Nis and the Centre for Social Labour in Nis is helping young couples in the country, which is in line with the social but also with Serbia's most intelligent policy. In Nis, the implementation of the first phase of the project has begun to help young people in the country who want to develop their business in rural areas where they were born and who are also stimulated by family enlargement. Through the Centre for Social Work, five million dinars have been allocated to provide social and financial support for the launch of their own business for families who would enter this programme of innovative policies, wanting to deal with agriculture, beekeeping, fruit growing, rural tourism or other activities that will support their family. Seven families have registered so far. It is only a preparatory phase for next year and the City of Nis is preparing to provide any kind of assistance to families in the country. Professional teams have already begun to work on the ground, to analyse citizens' needs. By next year, it is planned to complete mapping on the territory of four of the five city municipalities, as the territory of the Median municipality does not cover villages and rural areas. After that, training, stands and education will be organised on reproductive health. Families that meet the conditions will be granted about 140,000 dinars, as well as all other necessary support. The application lasts until the end of the year and all interested families from Nis or the environment can contact the Centre for Social Work. There are about 4,700 villages in Serbia. There are fewer than 100 inhabitants in about 1,000 villages. The villages are being shut down, but this will be stopped by the conduct of the proper and social and innovative policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will certainly contribute to the implementation of the measures in the City of Nis in support of social, agrarian and national reforms. The development of the village must be accelerated because as many as 40% of Serbian citizens live there. On concrete examples, I have now shown the results of the measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in line with this I call on my colleagues and colleagues to support these proposals in the voting day and to support the social and intelligence policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40569	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40570	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Listening to yesterday and reading the explanation, for example, of the Bill on Financial Support for the Family with Children, says the provisions of the Financial Support Act are part of the overall social care for children and refers to improving the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, and then further says that, including demographic needs, it is also an important instrument for population policy. Here we have to admit that there is a social category, but absolutely there is no instrument of population policy, especially if we have and we consider that there has been one way of serious discrimination against children born before this date since this law enters into force. Here's the thing. When the state is supposed to take away the citizens' money, then there's something that can be said and it can work retroactively, right? Now, you've made one regulation where people who use gas cars have decided that instead of ten years now they're paying the state for five years using gas bottles, even those who had, for example, the label of the Faculty of Machines for ten years, as I have my case to bring out, after six, seven years, even though I have a stamp and a sticker, they say -- a regulation, you have to pay another six thousand dinars now. Here's the question of how did you not think that by the age of 10, those kids who haven't turned 10 yet, I'm talking about the third and fourth kids, why don't they get some funding? If he's nine years and eight months old, here you go in these monthly wars you were supposed to pay, pay me those four months. Those who are two years old, who are a month old, which makes these children different from these children who will later be born or maybe now if we see you thinking about this kind of policy, there's something else you want to improve, so let's wait another two or three years. Maybe there's something else going on, so there's no need for us to make kids now? What's really illusory is that you don't have here at all in the law to mention the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth children. Once in Serbia, we talk about my grandfather's time, it was normal for Serbs to have seven, eight children. That was the most normal thing. Here, Petar Jojic 10. What now, fifth? No, it's best that you've passed the law to give the fifth child back that money now for the third and fourth. Who gets a fifth child, gets back. Is it forbidden to have a fifth child? Is that what we're gonna do? You're really insecure. This looks like everything, but it doesn't look like a population policy. Let's talk about the other kid. How much does he get from the state now? Why didn't you say the same thing – wait until she turns two, those children who were born, so nice 50% of this amount. Why am I saying this? Because I think the parents in the previous period were brave when they started a family and had three, four, and more children. Now we don't reward their courage, and in the future we're going to reward parents with more than one child or those who didn't even start a family? It had to be thought about and it's not too late, of course, to accept the smart sometimes word of the opposition and say – well, you're right, let's put this in because it's in the interest of every young parent. Here, I think I won't have any under four. I only have two so far, but since I'm only four years married, there's time. I've decided that Minister Zoran Djordjevic, I think he only has two, just when I get third, to make some competition. Even that's not a bad thing to think about. What is still amazing is that in another law that speaks of working in seasonal affairs, it is probably applicable in developed Western European countries. I admire that man who wrote this law. Either he hasn't left Belgrade in his life or he's acting crazy. Here, now, go along with me, and there are MPs from the ruling majority of western Serbia, so find me a village that has asphalt to their homes or depending on what they do, raspberries, nuts, whatever they pick, what agricultural products, fruit growing, whether they keep sheep or whatever they do. You didn't get them asphalts first. Whoever says it's not true, I'll take him with me tomorrow to western Serbia, so make sure he resigns immediately, either him or me. Go, for example, to the Zlatibor County, and come to Maglich, so if you find a meter of asphalt or the one that said it wasn't true, or I'm resigning uninvited. So don't make it up. On the other hand, you have a good part of those villages where even very often the power runs out, where the water network is not solved, where there is no irrigation. Not to mention, schools are empty. It's about this first part of the law. Why is that happening? Because in these villages there are other people who are over 60 and over and they are farming and then you say in the bill, and when you explain, I can't remember exactly who said it, it says – this is another kind of fight against the gray economy. Are you out of your mind? Who are these people who go and do seasonal work today? They're people who are bored after October 5th. These are the people who lost their jobs, no dinar compensation from this country, who were thrown out on the street when the factories were closed. But you're doing the same. Take an example of the crab. Where you've had big factories, you're building malls and you're still bragging about how you hired 500-600 people with 200-euro salaries and closed production. You want these few people left in the country, and what particular thing he's doing, and he's forcing you to drive them away, to forbid them, is that the next step? Be careful what you say. You're saying that the seasonal worker that works, so this is really and really interesting, says Article 6. – a seasonal worker who works 8 hours a day or longer has the right to rest during daily work for at least 30 minutes, must not be longer than 12 hours a day. Well, I'm curious, what, you want to bring in cameras like in the Society, someone's gonna follow up, put in a timer that works? And what do we do when it rains, when weather is bad? When there's no harvest, it's picked in the morning for two, three hours and then we're out of harvest by the end of the day, how are you going to lead it? Furthermore, he says – the employer is obliged to familiarise the seasonal worker with the work he will do, the place of work, the expected duration of work engagement, the conditions for safety and health at work, etc., payout deadlines. Check this out, payout deadlines. And what made it possible for a farmer to give the product in time to be paid before paying for the seasonal worker? Do you know that only now before this harvest did most of the raspberries charge for last year's harvest, because you then protected the people who made the monopoly by buying agricultural products, who was sanctioned by the Criminal Code? Who are you killing here? You kill both seasonal workers and producers here. Furthermore, the employer is obliged to issue to the seasonal worker at his request a certificate containing information about the employer, so he says, the FIB and the rest, etc. There are almost no such persons because most of them are natural persons, but then you say that even the employer is considered also a natural person, carrier or member of the family agricultural land. And there are very few people who have agricultural holdings. And then you say this - the registration records and the check-in of seasonal workers are submitted by electronic means to the Tax Administration. You want to convince me now that the over 60-year-olds will sit down instead of feeding pigs and chickens, go and pick up the raspberries and other agricultural products he has, he's sitting behind a laptop, playing on the Internet on his computer, what? Do you expect to describe them, I don't understand, in the seventh, eighth decade? And you've made nothing possible for them. Ludi, don't play. You either never went to work or you weren't seasonal, or you hired people to present to the people today that you solved all the problems, you really went into the 21st century like other states, so this is all that's left. You find a worker today, do you think it's easy to find a worker? Here, I'm telling you now, someone told me he's a 1400 dinar worker. You can't find a worker for 1400 dinars. The worker is 2,000 dinars plus breakfast, lunch, dinner and accommodation. A minimum of 2,000 to get someone to work for you, because it's not an easy job. Now, you figure out how many workers you need per ar, any agricultural goods, so put on paper how much you owe in advance to have money to pay for that seasonal worker, you don't have the security of the state to charge your sales, your product, and then put your finger on the head and tell me – why does this farmer, for whom? Let's not talk about this major problem right now, when your raspberries fell to 70 dinars. How about blackmail, what you don't work about? How much longer do I have, Chairman? Do I have two more sentences?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40571	Almost there. Here you go. Finish two sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40572	Two more sentences and I'm done. Since they're in villages where there's no availability, what did those privates think they wanted to be rich overnight? They come in nice with a truck and they tell that old man -- you either give it to me right now, or tomorrow morning you're gonna lose it because you have no one to take it to. And then he is obliged, simply blackmailed, to give him at the cost of whatever he offers, and those prices are much below and from the guaranteed price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40573	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40574	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that everyone in this hall and in the public of Serbia has agreed that the time has finally come to regulate the issue of hundreds of thousands of fighters, military people with disabilities, families of fallen fighters, civil disabled wars with one system law. Serbia has not solved the issue yet. I believe this government and this congregation council will finally do this historic thing. Among hundreds of thousands of fighters in Serbia, there are also over 50,000 Krajina fighters, i.e. members of the Republika Srpska Army. Previous legal solutions have made a great injustice against the country's fighters. Namely, they were granted the right to a military internship only until 27 April 1992, when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was founded. The Krajina fighters believe that this is a great discrimination and expect that this new system law, which I hope will be adopted by the end of this year, will correct this injustice. As a contribution to this fact, I point out this. First, the Krajina fighters did not fight for themselves, they fought for Yugoslavia, for Serbia, for the Serbian people. Due to the policy of double standards of major forces and the pro-Tuscan solution of Franjo Tuđman and his policy of ethical cleansing, they experienced tragedy and disaster. Over half a million Serbs from the current Croatia area have been expelled. The second reason I point out in favour of my claim that Serbia should correct this great injustice and that in future law recognises the military standing of the Krajina fighters throughout the war of a double-term war, is the fact that all of the province's officers, former JNA officers who were on military duty in the Republika Srpska Krajina Army, therefore at the level of brigade commanders, the Corps, in the Command of the Chief Staff of the Republika Srpska Krajina Army and in other duties, are recognised as a double-term military service. Now, tens of thousands of Krajina fighters are asked – with whom did these Krajina officers and commanders of brigades, Corpses and other military units command, if they were granted a dual-term wartime standing, and their fighters were not? The third thing I want to point out is the fact that at the end of last year, the Croatian Parliament passed a law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which fully equated the rights of members of the Croatian Council of Defence. So it's a military formation of Western-Herzegovina Croats with members of the Croatian Army. Therefore, Croatia has fully recognised the members of the Croatian Council of Defence as an integral part of the Croatian army. Another important thing about this law is that the legal possibility is that all those members of the Croatian Council of Defence, who have not exercised their rights to disability or families of fallen fighters, can now do so under the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, if they deliver valid evidence. On the other hand, there is one scandalous, one senseless, absurd thesis that Serbia and Krajijska Serbs and JNA have committed aggression against Croatia. Of course, many facts clearly state that the main culprit for the war on the territory of today's Croatia was France Tudjman's prostitute policy, as well as the policy of creating a unitary BiH, Ali Izetbegovic, was the main culprit for the wars in the BiH area, as well as the separatist policies of Kosovo Albanians in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this law, which, I hope, I repeat, soon adopted, should, I repeat, be recognized by the Krajina fighters for the entire time of the double-term war. In this way, the state of Serbia, I repeat, would correct a major historical injustice and Krajisniks could indeed say that from that moment on they are fully recognised by their mother Serbia. I would like to say a few illogical things and a few things that, in my opinion, are not good, which are in existing legal solutions, which are related to Krajijska Serbs. In fact, we have one fact that one part of the family, or wife of the dead Krajina fighters, had been abolished by the fact that their children had completed their education without being 45 years of age. When they were 45 years old, they again applied for a family disability. Now we have three types of discrimination. A group of these fallen fighters' wives, the fallen Krajina fighters, received answers that they could no longer exercise the right to a family disability, as their husband died after 27 April 1992, therefore, after the creation of the SRJ. The second part of the wives of the fallen Krajina fighters received the answer that they could not regain the right to a family disability, although their husband died in 1991 or until April 1992, for reasons, for God's sake, they had no Yugoslav citizenship, but Croatian citizenship. Well, it's clear to all of us that during 1991 and April 1992, everyone had Yugoslav citizenship. Only in January 1992, did Croatia cease to be a Yugoslav citizen in the territory of today's Croatia by recognising the EU. The third reason why women of the dead Krajina fighters lost their right to a family disability is the fact that they, for example, returned to Croatia, Kordun, Bani, Lika, Northern Dalmatia or went to third countries. I don't think these three reasons are good, that it was necessary to find a way for all the women of the dead Krajina fighters to be allowed to return to Croatia or go back to third countries in the process, regardless of the period in which their husband died. Also, we have one illogical thing about wartime military people. We have a part of our countrymen who have exercised the right to a personal disability, a part of them have returned to Croatia or gone to third countries and have been suspended by the Ministry's resolutions. We have a third category of civilian disabled war, where we have one paradox. Those civil disabled wars, therefore, from the area of Krajina, which have exercised the right to a personal disability under the law of the Republic of Serbia, have not been abolished by that right, and that part of the province's civilian war that has exercised the right to a personal disability under federal law has been abolished. Now, simply, people are surprised, embittered, one category of civil disabled war continues to exercise the right to a personal disability, and this other category of civil invalid war does not realize that right. I mean, these are just some of the examples I want to point out, in a well-intentioned manner, that during the construction, i.e. the formation of a working group that will work on the creation of a new, comprehensive, system law on the rights of fighters, a family of fallen fighters, civilian victims of war, that these objections will be taken into account and that we will all agree that the basis of this law must be that all rights acquired must not be reduced and abolished, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that this new law will allow, or create a legal possibility for all those who are not, above all, from the landscape, who have failed within the legal deadlines to exercise their rights, whether they are disabled, or family of fallen fighters, to enable them within the new legal deadline, provided, of course, if they bring valid and solid evidence that this really happened during the wartimes of 1991-1995 in Croatia. Also, I'd like to mention the two facts that the Krajijski Military Disabilities pointed out to me, regarding the changes and additions of these two laws that are on the agenda today. The first draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters, which was brought at the level of the SRJ, 1998, here the Ministry proposes that the basis for the calculation of personal, family disability, rights, or care and assistance compensation, for orthopedic assistance, be the average earnings in Serbia from last year. Wartime wartime disabled, civil people with disabilities, say and appeal to the ministry, to Minister Djordjevic, told me that they also told him in the conversation, that the basis for the receipt of a personal disability, the family disability, was the average earnings in Serbia in the previous month. I believe that through the talks we can come up with a solution and that wartime military people, civilian war people, will not be damaged, because some estimate, in their opinion, that by the end of this year they will have fewer people with disabilities of 50, 60, 70 euros per month. The second amendment proposed by the ministry is related to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families of the Republic of Serbia, where it is proposed that the age limit for men be shifted from 60 to 65, and for women from 50 to 60. In fact, this is about families, or wives of dead military people, women of fallen fighters, who did not exercise their right to retire, that now, according to this bill, men will receive monthly compensation five years later, and women instead of 50 years old, will now be able to receive it at 60 years of age. I also suggest that we discuss this topic and see how to meet this category of Serbian citizens. Finally, I would like to appeal once again to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, to form a working group as soon as possible and to move forward in the preparation of draft new, comprehensive, system law on rights of fighters, families of fallen fighters, military disabled and civilian disabled wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40575	Thank you, colleague Linta. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40576	Just one piece of information for you, Mr. Linta. The board has made a proposal, as you said, to consider once again not being such a high level, or year to cut it down, to return to 50 and 60, and we will accept it as Government, so that I inform you that we will return. I think we got off on this too early, and I think those people should stay here and get help before, not wait like they did on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40577	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. He's not there. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanovic, but there is not enough time and is not present. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not there. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. The word is from the National MP Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40578	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected gentlemen from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliaments, today we have a set of laws passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resent Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. I will talk about the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, and I will talk about the War Memorial Bill through amendments, so I will give other colleagues the opportunity and time to talk about the proposals of these laws. Population policy is a policy run by a state aimed at harmonising demographics. So the number, the structure and the population. As far as population policy types are concerned, there is this expansional or innovative policy aimed at increasing the population. A demographic picture of this population policy would look so that 11% of women have one child, 44% of women have two children, and 45% of women have three children. Restrictive or anti-natal policy implies a reduction in population. In Serbia, 600,474 women have no children. That's why we passed the Biomedical Aided Fertility Act, which I'm not going to talk about today. When it is added to the fact that about 17,000 interruptions of pregnancy are made annually, it comes to the fact that every baby born has three interruptions in pregnancy, which contributes to the anti-natality population policy. The third is so-called. just to mention redistributive or dissipating population policy. So it's a favourable population space. A fourth, eugenic one that encourages the birth and development of a certain number of people. For the first time in a hundred years, the state is engaged in supporting the birth and improvement of demographic imagery in Serbia, with the goal of reaching a level of 1.85 children per woman within 10-15 years, i.e. a 10% increase. I note that in 2016 it was 1.46 children per woman, which is not enough even for the simple reproduction of the population. Serbia, without the Albanian population at KIM, had a population of 7,040,272 in 01.01.2017. For the first time since 1966, the number of people in Serbia is around 7,000,000. Only in 2017 did we lose 39,202 inhabitants. The trend of negative natural growth in Serbia lasts for 27 years. Since 1991, the number of newborns has been constantly lower than the number of deaths. In 2017, only 64,734 children were born, so that according to these projections in 2060, we will be only 3.90,000. We may have more than 1,700 pensioners, as many as we have today, but 7,000,000 people. Serbia would have no economic potential, no political potential, no demographic potential. I underline, central Serbia and AP Vojvodina are affected by very unfavourable demographic movements with a long-term demographic projection that announces even more unfavourable tendencies, but with its provisions this law clearly and unequivocally defines the state and gives incentive measures by increasing the parental supplement and thus the state is dealing with the biggest national problem, which is the problem of the depopulation. So, for example. The parental allowance for the first child, born on 1 July 2018 and later, is 100,000 dinars and is paid once after birth. For the second child, there are 240,000 dinars, 10,000 dinars a month for two years. For a third child of 1,440,000 dinars, 12,000 dinars a month for ten years. For the fourth child, 2,160,000 dinars, 18,000 ten years a month. So for the third child, about 12,200 euros, for the fourth child, 18,300 euros, which is more than 30,000 euros. At the first moment, the state will invest 12m euros to encourage birth. This is all possible thanks to the surplus in the budget, which is achieved through fiscal consolidation measures, GDP growth is 4.5% and the fall in public debt which is 59, as well as the synergy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. At the end of my presentation, I will conclude with one sentence -- respected Members of the People's Parliament, as well as the citizens of Serbia, the people of the comfort zone move into the zone of unconditional love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40579	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40580	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll talk about the War Memorial Bill. Given that the area of protection of war memorials in the country and abroad is legally covered by laws that have been passed in the period of the existence of the SFRY, I fully support the initiative and the proposal to adopt a new law on war memorials that will fully regulate this area. This law will deal with all issues of importance for the protection of regular maintenance and investment maintenance and arrangements, removal and financial maintenance and arrangement of war memorials. In addition, the law will regulate the establishment and keeping of prescribed records, as well as other issues of importance for war memorials in the Republic of Serbia and our memorials abroad. Why is the adoption of this law important? And by this law, as well as all others that we have brought, the SNS, led by President Alexander Vukic, shows its significant different attitude towards this area compared to all the authorities so far. We and this law show our household relationship which, for example, the yellow government was completely foreign and unknown. We also want to show our respect, the need to preserve a worthy memory of victims and participants of armed conflicts in the past. Our goal is to strengthen and further affirm the principles of patriotism, antifascism, understanding, co-operation, and the fight against anti-Semitism. By editing and maintaining war memorials, the notion of war graves, individual graves, gravestones, the mention of the skeleton, the memorial of the church, monuments, the public memorial of the monuments, the monument of the tablets, the sites of destruction, the sights and other punitive symbols of importance for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, therefore, by editing and maintaining all those war memorials on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also the Serb war memorials abroad, we want to cultivate traditions for future generations, because war memorials are also one of the identification codes of the Serbian nation. Unlike some nations in our environment that secretly cultivate other values, we affirm antifascism, patriotism, understanding and co-operation and support the fight against anti-Semitism. The Republic of Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, completely rejects any relativisation of crimes committed against innocent civilians in the past, rejects any attempts by historical auditism and rehabilitation of political organisations of armed formations and individuals responsible for the crimes committed, as well as the dissipation of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred. At the same time, we respect and affirm the principle of equality and respect for historical, national, religious and other personalities. For these reasons, it is important to point out that this law does not allow the construction and installation of war memorials that are not in line with historical or real facts, which offend general and state interests, national and religious feelings and public morality. The law does not allow the construction or setting up of a war memorial dedicated to an event that does not comply with Serbia's Liberation Wars or symbolizes the loss of sovereignty, territorial integrity, integrity and independence or freedom of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the law does not allow the construction or setting up of a war memorial to a person represented by fascist, Nazi, chauvinistic, separatist or ideological ideas, as well as a person who was an associate of aggressors, occupiers, their allies or descendants. At the same time, this law respects the principle of equality and respect for historical, national, political, religious and other personalities. He, in addition to his basic memorial function, has an unequivocal educational significance, and will positively foster the development of Serbia's tourism potential. Protection of war memorials and death scenes shows Serbia's respect for its past and for all those who have lost their lives in armed conflicts. Serbia thus honours its brave ancestors, and with regular maintenance and arrangement of war memorials and efforts to be dignified, it preserves their memory forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40581	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40582	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, the government's priority is to carry out reforms that will lead to improvements in the general and business environment, all in order to ensure a better future. Reforms of active measures are carried out through the National Employment Service. The unemployment rate is decreasing, leading to the application of the new Labour Act, and it was the basis for Serbia's progress and growth. The new Foreign Employment Act, which was adopted at the end of 2014, i.e. In December, an area of foreign employment was arranged in cases of working relationship. The conclusion of a contract which exercises the right to work and self-employment is prescribed by the conditions and the procedure for issuing a licence. The law harmonised with the relevant EU Directive and the Convention on International Labour Organisation. The changes and additions will contribute to better positioning of the Republic of Serbia in terms of increased investment, in particular the involvement of highly qualified experts who carry out tasks of interest for the Republic of Serbia, as well as jobs of international importance. In the period from the beginning of the application of the law in 2015, observing the issued permits for the work of a stranger, it was observed that the largest number of permits were issued to foreigners with high professional training, showing that the largest number of foreigners employed by technical professions, and through cities, the city of Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis was recorded most in January to April 2018. The proposed amendment of the law is necessary to reduce the time limit to 10 days for issuing a work permit for employment and thus enables greater efficiency in providing services to be provided by the National Employment Service and affects the simplification of administrative procedure. It can exceptionally be issued to a foreigner, when it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, that there is a prior consent of the minister responsible for granting temporary stay and cannot be issued for a period longer than 45 days. This will contribute to creating a more favourable business environment, aimed at increasing the volume of investment, and thus a positive effect on the Republic of Serbia's budget. Applying and protecting temporary workers has an important role to play in the growth of business and is a significant source of additional foreign exchange revenue for the countries that refer to the employees. The fact that the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance has data on the posting of temporary staff abroad, which is referred to by the employer, does not need to double the databases and objectives achieved, should simplify and facilitate the process of sending temporary workers abroad and the employer will be relieved of the excessive administrative procedures. A new legislative solution adapted to the modern economic financial legal system will reduce the costs of entrepreneurs who are referring to temporary work abroad and lead to the abolition of the current obligations of the referral process. Serbia successfully implements its strategy for curbing the gray economy. The adoption of a law on simplified employment in seasonal jobs in certain activities provides for the fight against the grey economy and informal employment as one of the measures of the government's action plan, poses challenges facing the Republic of Serbia. Unregistered activities harm the employer, employed as well as the state. Undeclared workers are deprived of the basic rights, pension and health insurance rights. The state fails to collect taxes and contributions, and employers operating legally have operating costs, so all parties have a common goal of fighting the gray economy. The better position of workers should be to provide a law on simplified employment of seasonal workers, especially in the agriculture sector, and to provide for the introduction of a simplified way of reporting seasonal workers through an electronic platform, so employers will be freed from large-scale administrations and seasonals to exercise labour-based rights. The state pays the most attention to the birth, raising and raising of children, which we all have to care about individually because the birth of children and the rate of growth of population renewal marks the demographic development of the Republic of Serbia. The general objective of the sustainable demographic development of the Republic of Serbia is the stationed population in which the next generations will be the same size as the existing ones. The birth of children should not worsen the economic and thus the social situation of families with children. Therefore, the role of the state is particularly important, financial assistance to families with children, so we are achieving a parental supplement that represents support for families, mothers by birth of the first, second, third and fourth children. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support in the voting day all the draft laws delivered to us by the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40583	Thank you. Balša Bozovic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40584	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, and above all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who follow us in television, I owe it for the truth and for the sake of the citizens, since one of the MPs of the opposition brought it out today, I will say so freely, a lie when he said that the SNS does not care about villages, does not take care of those people who live there, who should stay alive, to create their families. Along with my fellow MPs, I was able to be in western Serbia about a week ago and to see these villages, which they say, there are no asphalts, which of course is not true. During the government of local SNS and Republics, in 2018 in the municipality of Priboj, 700 meters in Mažići were done, a step, to say, near the monastery of Orahovic towards the village of Kucin. Then, in 2017, Dragačevsko village, Rasovac, settlement of Stevanovići, road from 1,100 metres. There is otherwise a “Gay” milkmaker who processes more than 5,000 milk daily and has more than 100 cooperatives with whom he co-operates. Of course, strawberries and raspberries are produced in that part of Serbia. In 2017, the municipality of Nova Varoš, Gornja Trudovo, one km away. Of course, that's not enough, I can list here by tomorrow the villages where the asphalt first arrived in history during the Vlat and SNS. Now I will return to what is the topic of today's agenda, and I would like to pay attention to two legislative proposals. One refers to the memorials, and the other to the incentive, I will say the inciting birth, something that is life for Serbia. The criticisms that come from the opposition that the SNS government wants to force women in Serbia and families to have children are absolutely not standing. Women are free to choose whether to give birth or not, whether families will have children or not. But this is an appeal to Serbia, to the citizens of Serbia, to ask that all that our grandfathers have created, that what the people who have left their bones in all the liberation wars so that today we may have this freedom in which we live, that we may have the land in which we live, that we do not gamble. The only way to save our country, to preserve its future, is to have life in it, and there is no life if it is not born. There's no better thing for any man than to become a father or a mother. There's no better thing in the world than a baby's pay. We've been locked up for the last 20 years in a country where there's more crying when children leave Serbia and cry at funerals. I want Serbia in which we will be able to boast for five or ten years about the results of the SNS-led government, in which we will reverse this trend in which more dies and less is born, more is born and less is dying. Already now you can see and feel in the public of Serbia, through the encouraging measures announced by President Aleksandar Vukic, who initiated all this with, of course, co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia. We now have the opportunity to help families in Serbia, to help young people who were not because of the wrong decisions of previous authorities, who had harassed Serbia, who had economically envied Serbia in black, people were afraid, honest to be, to meet and talk to young people both in villages and in cities, feared for their future, where they would find a job, how to work, how to feed their families. The Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandar Vukic and our coalition partners bring such measures as to encourage people to stay in Serbia, to have children, to live here. I appeal once again to the citizens of Serbia, think about whether we can afford such luxury, that what generations of our ancestors fought for, we let down the water because maybe one of us is selfish and wants to have expensive shoes, expensive clothes, expensive cars, that often changes our mobile phone and that's why we don't have children. These encouraging measures are one step, but a major step that no one before SNS and Alexander Vucic took in Serbia on their own and gained conditions by stabilising public finances, by increasing our economy on healthy grounds, growing economy, by no longer having people in the power to fire workers in Serbia today, but by hiring, and by five years from now, the SNS authorities have managed to create a new 180,000 jobs, over 90 factories. Every day a cornerstone in Serbia, a cornerstone that guarantees a safe future for families in Serbia. For the end of my presentation, I will also speak of the memorials, of the monuments, of our ancestors, of what they have left for us. I am a descendant of the ancestors who fought in World War I, World War II, left one of his bones in Slovakia at the camp, the other managed to survive World War I and to enter World War II as captain of the royal army, to return alive from the camp. We listened to their stories about the famous exploits of our great royal army and as someone who grew up with it all, I can't let anyone about our army, whether from the 1990s, 40s or from 1914 to 1918, say a bad word. The Serbian army has never waged conquest wars, the Serbian army has always defended homes, houses, villages, the very villages that no one has thought of asphalt in them before to bring them in, it was defended by the Serb army. The Serbian army defended what we have most sacredly, those are the lives of our people, the lives of our children. So today, if we think that this country has a future, we have to remember them, we have to keep all the mentions of the features that have been made in our country's territory, to fight to preserve those outside our country's territory, because that's the only way, by remembering the ancestors and the birth, that this country lives and has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40585	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40586	Dear Vice President, Article 96. I have one question now, and I hope you're confused, that you've made an accidental failure, not that someone from the SNS wanted you to go over the rules. In this article, which refers to the order of who has the right to participate in the debate, in point 4), the MPs say, in turn, as to whether or not they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for a word. If the application for a word does not indicate whether MPs support or dispute the proposal, these MPs, pay attention, speak at the end of the order of application for the word. We have been approached by two MPs who are in the e-parliament and in what is divided, listed as unspecified. These are MPs Djokic Zvonimir and Compirović Stanija. My question is – how can the MPs, who are listed as unspecified, speak before Serbian MP Filipovic, who is listed in the application for a word and stated in the application for a word that he supports the bill? I know that within a parliamentary group, the order of speakers can be changed, but I do not know that there is a possibility that MPs pass what they stated in the application for a word will change their position whether they support or do not support the law. To someone, this may seem irrelevant in a circus that was made by the Assembly with a discussion of details, probably many seem irrelevant, but believe that procedures are very important. If the MPs can do what they want to do to change the order of speakers or according to who's in the O.R. or according to how they come to mind, then let us know that we can write whatever we say on these applications, it doesn't matter how we say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40587	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. You know for yourself the universal rule that within the parliamentary group can come with the consent of the chairman, as you have, among other things, done, so, a redistribution was done only, or a replacement within the SNS parliamentary group. I think you know we have the same archaic, the same criteria for all MP groups, according to yours, your SNS, anyone. (Alexandra Jerkov: So we can change the definition during the debate.) No, I don't think there's a problem with the definition of SNS. I don't think there's any problem here. (Alexandra Jerkov: Well, there is. ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Alexandra Jerkov: Of course.) - Okay, thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, colleague Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40588	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws now on the agenda and has made it very clear, inspiringly spoke and announced the SPS position and parliamentary groups of our distinguished colleague Mirjana Dragas. I can only confirm that this time. I'm just going to put out a few more reasons why we're going to support the proposed laws. First, when it comes to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, I start by having two rights and two obligations – the right of a child to the terms of life that allow proper development, right, but also the obligation of parents to raise and raise children and, where I am going to be, to support the welfare of the family of children and future generations, because there is a particularly important role of the state and the state has to assume part of the cost of giving birth to children and their support and schooling, especially in today's conditions, when very unfavourable data are when the issue of demographic policy is very otherwise abandoned. Therefore, the state, or government, this time answers this question and makes a proposal for a law that aims to respond to its obligation by encouraging measures and to support family, children, to make its contribution to future generations. This law, which is on the agenda, clearly and unequivocally confirms the country's commitment to tackle one of the biggest problems today in Serbia, which is an insufficient number of children's births, a problem, noting again, which is abandoned. I want to acknowledge to the government that she's dealing with a problem like this, a problem that is very difficult, which requires a lot of work, a lot of measures, a lot of resources, and she can't give the results right now, as I would say, but in the long run. Of course, it's not just an incentive measure to increase the parental supplement, the state is aware of it, the government is aware of it, unemployment, poor material position, housing problems are also something that affects this area and can interfere or encourage it. That is why the long-term government, from the perspective of sustainability of development, encourages the birth of meanings and solves the mentioned problems, and the government successfully solves them. I would also like to point out, in addition to the parental allowance, which is spoken of here, that the incentive measures and the right to benefit during maternity leave, the absence of child care and child care, the right to other birth and care benefits, etc., what also stands before the government, and this is further business to improve child labour and parenting, further jobs and create conditions for pre-school education, health care, education, so all of this must be addressed in order to create the best possible conditions for the successful development of a family, or children. I would like to remind you of a very important change that took place in April of the month, which refers to a change in the right to a parental supplement. By April, only employed women under the contract of employment had the right to do so, now it has been extended to members of women who are self-employed, as well as to those engaged in a work contract or from a contract on temporary and occasional jobs. Finally, when it comes to this issue, recalling that the parental supplement that is envisaged here is one of the most important measures of material assistance and support to the family, to remind myself, the first child is 100,000, the second child is 240, and the third is 1,440,000, the fourth is 2,160,000 dinars, all in wars, when it comes to the second child for two years, and the third and fourth is 10 years. I note this in order to point out once again the support and commitment of this government and social responsibility, but not only social responsibility, but also responsibility for the future of Serbia of this government. This requires a lot of resources. There's over eight billion dinars in this year. But I would like to point out, the government is doing everything to create opportunities for new jobs, better employment, of course, for the better life of citizens. I want to draw attention, and these funds that are being allocated are investment, not cost. This is an investment in the future. I will only briefly consider two more laws in the field of labour relations, given that I am an MP for the SPS, that this is always a sensitive issue for the SPS, given the basic position of the SPS when it comes to work, which is to advocate, support, demand, when it comes to state, employer and worker. What we insist on and what we look through when we look at the laws whether it is fulfilled is that we insist on a permanent dialogue, on partnership, on support, on the trust of all the three I spoke about, both the state and employer and the worker. Just looking through it, I want to support these two laws and make that very argument because both the law and the law want to solve a problem from which both the state and the employer and the worker will have a problem. When it comes to the Law on sending workers to temporary work abroad, a brief but important change, the law so far has played a very important role both in the increase in business and in the source of additional foreign exchange revenues. But what was noticed? It has been noted that employers should be able to react as quickly and efficiently as possible on the market outside the country. In order to do so, they need to be able to function more efficiently. There is what the promoter noted, that a rather complicated procedure for applying workers who go abroad is duplicated even with the data found in the Central Register. It has been noted and there have been irregularities and disrespect when it comes to sending workers abroad. It is a change that is quick, short and necessary, which the government has proposed by simplifying the application process and preventing these irregularities. Note, we will always support government and state efforts to enable employers to operate as efficiently as possible, but never at the expense of workers. So the worker is as important as the employer in one chain. Profit not only brings in capital that is invested, but also work, the worker and he must be valued just as much as is valued and capital, and more. The worker is not a cost, the worker is a working man and contributes to increasing profits. So, in this case, a more efficient way of reporting, but at the same time it doesn't touch the rights of workers, and that's why we're going to support it. When it comes to, just for a little while more about seasonal affairs, we have to agree on something - the gray economy and informal employment, it bothers everyone. At least there shouldn't be dilemmas between the state and employers and employees. Employees do not exercise any rights based on work. The state or does not charge taxes and contributions, and when there is no taxes and contributions, we cannot have good health care, education and all that. The companies that operate legally are in a situation where they have higher costs than the ones that don't. That is exactly what is most demonstrated in agriculture, and therefore the proposer goes with solutions that will allow this law for employers to free them from unnecessary administrations. One more thing, regarding the process of application and check-in of workers, and with the lowest basis of taxes and contributions paid for the hire of a seasonal worker, and in the case of a seasonal worker, it provides all the rights, pension, health care, working time, rest, etc. So Benefit will also have the state, will also have an employer because he will be able to do it more effectively, but what makes us particularly supportive will also have a seasonal worker who will, at least, create legal opportunities for him, have protection and the rights that arise from that work. That's it. I repeat again, we will support the proposals of all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40589	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a folk letter from Grozdan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40590	I will refer to a bill that may not be so much of an impact on the everyday lives of citizens, but it has great spiritual and symbolic significance for every nation, and that is the bill on war memorials. The very fact that this matter is regulated by even three different laws that were passed in the 60s and 70s last century suggests that the change in these legal solutions was necessary even if the practical situation in this area was ignored. It's with certain exceptions and shifts pretty bad. Due to the limitations of regulations, intertwining jurisdiction or legal voids, lack of money and erosion of social values, we have come to the situation that many military cemeteries and monuments, not only are abandoned, unsustained and left to the teeth of time and destruction, but are exposed to inappropriate devastation and destruction, which is absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, this bill regulates this area in a more modern way and sets out clear rules on the division of responsibilities for the protection of war memorials, and according to its location. May I ask Mr. Risticevic to sit in his seat? It's really inappropriate for every speaker to go and walk around the O.R. May I ask the chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40591	Yeah, just keep going. I'm asking you to ensure the conditions for my colleague Banac to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40592	I'm asking you the most beautiful.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40593	Here you go. I'm really sorry, but you know, Parliament, it's alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40594	Great, I'm well-known. It's not a problem. The defence ministry will be responsible for maintaining a memorial within the barracks and other military facilities. The local self-government units for memorials located within regular cemeterys, and the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs will work together in memorials abroad, and on the basis of signed international bilateral conventions. Also, a clear procedure for editing and removing war memorials is envisioned, and for the first time, it is predicted that it will give its opinion on this to the newly formed Council for the Care of the Traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars. It is particularly pointed out that construction or setting up a memorial that does not correspond with historical facts, if national and religious feelings are offended, if they symbolize the loss of sovereignty, territorial integrity of Serbia's freedom or is dedicated to the person who was an occupier. I particularly consider it to be a member of the 24th proposed law, which is predicted to keep special records at the Ministry of Defence of the Dead during past acts of war, with basic data on each of these persons. This provision constitutes the essence of social recognition for those who have fallen into the protection of countries and peoples, i.e. the right to memory and to remember. We are here to witness that almost all previous generations have sinned against fallen fighters, whose names are quickly forgotten or not even established or done in part. That's even the case with the last 90s wars, where we are, for example. came into the situation that so far no one has provided precise information on the number of dead fighters, Serbian citizens at the war in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska during the 1990-1995 wartime. Also, I think that attention should also be paid to civil war victims, because in modern total wars, formal boundaries between soldiers of fighters and unarmed citizens are increasingly deleted, and that civil victims themselves are unjustly neglected, and that they should also be listed and counted, make a register, Mr. Minister. In relation to the victims of war and war heroes, the relationship of every society to its ancestors and history is seen, and the people who did not learn lessons from historical events will be condemned to relive them. Unfortunately, Serbia's history has been over-repeated, and we have been experiencing it too much, so we in the PUPS parliamentary group see the proposal as an opportunity to protect the memory and memory of past events, at the same time to create a basis for a better future and to build and build for a better future, so in the voting day we will give support for the adoption of this and the other laws that are on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40595	Thank you, Comrade Banac, with one more apology. The word has Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40596	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers and associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of laws on the agenda and a lot of them from the social sphere that are very important because they are in the function of legal regulation of significant issues of importance for different categories of population. Regardless of the different views on the social system we had in the earlier 90th century, some values in this social policy system that we have not yet reached in democratic society are indisputable. As followers of such ideology and human and prosperous socialism, we in the SPS are pleased to advocate the proposed social policy laws, which are in the role of improving the material and economic position. We MPs, of course, are interested in all social issues related to the economic and social position of all layers and categories of our society. In our thinking and relationship to social reality and, above all, social issues, it always carries out the awareness of the necessity that all people live with dignity, that everyone needs attention, respect and respect, to give equal opportunity to everyone, whoever comes from, for education, for promotion, for free health care, for the exercise of martial law, for the rights of pensioners, disabled persons, for the safety of people and gender equality. We believe that only in a society where an individual can be realized, felt important, with a perspective in life, so only in such circumstances can we be happy and capable of further progress in our society. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support with Children has multiple meanings in terms of the social and economic situation of a large number of families with children. The focus of family attention with children is socially justified and logical, because measures of financial support, in fact, achieve another very important goal besides that of basic, social, and this is the ultimate goal of restoring the population, without which we will have no perspective, development and survival of our society and state. The adoption of concrete measures of financial support to the family with children, therefore, the adoption of such a law will ease the family's favourable material position with children compared to the situation of families without children. Unfortunately, we do not live today in economic and other prosperity where the material position of the largest number of people, including families with children, would be at an envious level. Today, however, both in developed countries and societies, there is a problem with the negative growth of the population, and this is the phenomenon of today. According to UN data, in that part of the world, it can also be said in the developed part of the world, over 80 countries have this problem. In our case, under conditions of insufficient economic development and material difficulties of a large part of the population, we have a reduced definition of potential actors in reproduction. Unemployment, poor material position, unresolved housing issues, etc., greatly reduce the motivation and commitment of people to be made as parents. Specific incentive measures, primarily through the provision of a parental supplement, with the application of 1. In July, for the first child, 100,000 once, for the second child – 240,000 in 24 months, for the third child - 1.440,000, in 120 wars of 12,000, for the fourth child – 2.160,000, in 120 wars of 18,000 dinars, are certainly a strong step in improving the social status of the family with children, but also better, to say, demographic perspectives, which is very important. Serbia's demographic perspective is crucial to the survival and development of our country and society. Of course, in addition to these incentive measures, there is still more to be done in other spheres and elsewhere. We, unfortunately, live in a very harsh reality and I don't think there's a priority task, but to take care of it in what way and how we're restoring ourselves for the future, because it's a fundamental assumption of the survival of our country and our people, of course our state communities along with national minorities, etc. It is worth mentioning that in the area of health care, the solutions offered by the law will contribute to a greater scope of immunisation and that is certainly good, as well as respect for those laws concerning education and education. It must also be taken into account that, in fact, it is very important, and it is passed through the law, that the payments of this incentive be made directly, not through the employer, which is very, very important, because a different psychological approach is given to people when this is done in such a way. When it comes to the War Memorial Act, I will say that this area has so far been regulated by the laws of earlier times from the SFRY and the SRJ and that these laws are not suited to this time, that they do not regulate this area today comprehensively with the demands of a new time. Certainly, Serbia has the right to cultivate values based on its history and tradition and that is why this law is important. It is important that the values of our people are particularly cherished through the struggles and wars for the defense and freedom of our people. In this sense, war memorials represent an important guideline for the future, set up by our famous ancestors. They're also part, in the end line, of our identity and of course we should stick to it. The law prevents any improvisation in the maintenance, construction or removal of war memorials and is therefore also important. However, I am not sure whether the proposal for this War Memorial law adequately covers the maintenance, preservation and restoration of houses and spaces in which they were born and where our wartime giants lived or lived for a long time, such as Dragutin Matić from the Gadžino Han area, which is called "The Eye of the Falcon" and whose photograph today is in many museums of the world, whose photograph is in many textbooks, in monographs, etc. He is certainly one of the leading symbols of the courage, loyalty, endurance and heroism of the Serb people in defending the country. His house has grown into weeds and matches with a fallen roof, and left to the tooth of time and destruction. The second example is the house of Archibald Rice in the Shadow, near the Emperor's Cupre. Of course there are other examples. I wouldn't keep doing that. There are other problems, because these houses are often partly and privately owned or specifically when it comes to Dragutin Matic's house, the succession process is not yet completed. I believe that in such and other cases, in this regard, the state must, in a precise, adequate and efficient way, through legislation to regulate it and to prevent the collapse of such a tradition, such a spiritual treasure that serves us in a positive sense for future generations in an educational and educational sense. We'll vote for all the laws in this set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40597	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. He's not present. ) The word has the People's Messenger Joseph Broz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40598	At first, I would like to welcome these laws, because it was high time that laws were passed that would have an impact on the lives of the people and on the lives of the fighters, as well as on the historical facts that we must not ignore. This is very important because, I'm going to look back at this one about the memorials, because so far, it's been done as it was intended. We must not allow monuments to be built according to certain structures of the municipalities, as it was done in Preshevo, as it was done in Sandzak, as it was done in Vojvodina by Austrian soldiers who killed Serbs, and we do not take care of our monuments in the world and here. It is a shame that we, over 60 countries in the world, have a monument to Josip Broz Tito, and we don't have one here in Belgrade. It is a shame to have the monument of Djindjic, not Slobodan Milosevic, who was also president with 60% of the votes. We don't have monuments or civilians killed in NATO bombing. We don't have monuments for worthy creators, foreign heroes killed in World War II. We must equalize everything, both World War I and World War II and all that applies to the fight of our people against the enemy, and that was even during the Turks, after all. I think we need to keep those monuments safe. We have them in the cemetery, and we have to keep them safe, not to collapse and destroy as to whom they come to mind. I've been through a lot, and I've seen many of these events since World War II, and you can't approach a monument just because someone doesn't have the means to keep it going. The basis of all this is that history should be respected, because if we don't respect history, she won't respect us either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40599	Thanks, buddy Broz. Milletic is not present. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go, colleague Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40600	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, the PP Strategy in Serbia 2018 was presented in which five times more money was allocated to promote population policy, unlike in 2017 when 130 million dinars were allocated to these measures. It's going to be 566 million dinars this year. The government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a strategy and measures to encourage population policy. The national type of fight to increase the birth rate, which includes three levels -- is the first one financially, then, to remove administrative problems, and the example is the "e-baby" project, as well as the synchronisation of work and parenting. In order for young couples to decide on parenting, it is necessary to employ young women without conditioning whether they were giving birth or wanting to give birth, the issue of maternity leave, that women are not afraid of cancelling or reducing wages, meaning the possibility of harmonising work and parenting. It also includes part-time for parents, free textbooks, services for children. The fact is, as many as 400,000 couples struggle with sterility. Three attempts have been made for mothers up to 42 years of life by the Republic Fund, but there is no need to ignore the efforts of local administrations, which single out significant funds for couples from their budgets, especially for couples who cannot do so through the Republic Fund. All the measures taken by the ministry, including your ministry, are large funds for local self-government, and this is of great importance, especially that this ministry is engaged, relying on the profession and the maximum profession is included. So this is just the beginning, because we have new health insurance laws and a continuation of the measures that will complete this strategy. The parliamentary group will vote in voting day for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40601	Thank you. The SPS parliamentary group took advantage of the time, so I'm going to skip my colleague Nedjo Jovanovic. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic is not present. Dragan Savkic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40602	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, on the agenda is a set of laws on which we are conducting a joint principle and uniform search, and I will talk about the draft law on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities. The proposal for this law for special seasonal work conditions in the agriculture, forestry, fisheries sector, where jobs are carried out only at a certain time during the year, planting, sowing, plant protection, harvesting and others, regulates a simplified way of working the person and paying taxes and contributing to seasonal work. The introduction of a legal framework for the establishment of a simplified employment system for seasonal workers is foreseen as one of the measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia's action plan to implement a national programme to combat the grey economy. The grey economy and informal employment represent one of the leading challenges facing the government of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, undeclared workers are deprived of basic rights – pension and health insurance rights, and on the other hand, the state fails to collect taxes and contribute. The draft law provides that, in addition to the legal person and the employer, the employer may also be the natural person of the institution or member of the family agricultural holding involved in agricultural production. It is foreseen that a domestic employer is working on seasonal affairs and foreign nationals without obligation to obtain work permits, in accordance with the Law on Conditions for the Employment of Foreigners. A foreign citizen needs to work on seasonal affairs to have an approved stay by the MUP. The employer is obliged to meet the seasonal worker before the start of work with the jobs he will perform, the place and time of work, the type of work, the daily, the weekly working hours, the rest during the day and the amount of work compensation. The entry into force of this Agreement shall be deemed to be the conclusion of an oral contract on the performance of seasonal affairs. The working hours of a seasonal worker cannot be longer than 12 hours a day, and the worker has the right to a daily vacation of 30 minutes. A seasonal worker may be hired for a maximum period of 180 days during the calendar year. The working fee shall be paid at the working hour and shall not be less than the minimum labour price applicable on the day of payment and shall be paid by the rules at the end of the working day. It is very important to point out that the bill prescribes that during the course of seasonal operations, the seasonal worker is not deleted from the unemployment records, nor is he suspended from paying the cash compensation during the temporary unemployment he has achieved at the National Employment Service. The fee for the work carried out by the seasonal worker is not an impact on the exercise and use of the right to financial social assistance. The employer is obliged to pay income tax and contributions for compulsory social, pension and disability insurance, as well as for health insurance in the event of injuries to work and occupational diseases. Taxes and contributions shall be paid in a fixed amount and shall not depend on work compensation. The bill stipulates that the employer shall report a seasonal worker via an electronic portal in the tax administration system no later than 10.00 p.m. for that day, i.e. from 13.00 to 15.00 hours for work on the afternoon shift. The workers' checkout is due by 10.00 p.m. the next day, and if the worker logs out after 10.00 p.m., he will be considered to have been employed for the day. The bill stipulates that data entered through the tax administration portal are exchanged with the Republic employment organisations. I believe this law will contribute to better, safer and cheaper production of seasonal workers, security, and to the Republic of Serbia's fuller budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40603	Thank you, colleague Savkic. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. She's not present. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40604	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will speak of two laws. The first law is the bill of war memorials, and out of respect for graves. Namely, my family died in all wars and I want them to express their piety to them in this way. In World War I, 70 million soldiers were mobilized, 10 million were killed, 20 million people were wounded, data collected by the French Press Agency on this, until then the biggest war in history. No less land, no more casualties. In addition to Serbia's military and civilian losses, they were extremely high. According to an estimate by the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians at a peace conference in Versailles, Serbia's war damage was exactly half of the total national property, while 28% of the population died in the war. According to these data, Serbia lost 62% of the male population from 18 to 55 years of age, 53% of which died and 9% were permanent people with disabilities. During the 20th century, we suffered catastrophic demographic losses, mainly because of other people's goals. Political elites have unwisely sacrificed human resources and national identities. At a peace conference after the Great War, it was reported that Serbia lost 1,247,435 people, or 28% of the entire population. History is the teacher of life. If we don't respect our ancestors, our graves, we won't have a future. Serbia suffered so many victims in the 1914 to 1918 war that it literally could not mark all their graves. Unfortunately, it happened, it didn't happen again, we're kind of a house in the middle of the road, we're always making wars somehow, but defensive. This is a good military people. I had to say a few sentences from my pietate to this people. I'd like to go back to the Memorial law now. First of all, it needs to bring three main characteristics and features, which is to differentiate, to know whose ingenuity, to know what local self-government is doing, what the Ministry is doing, what other responsibilities are doing, and who and how and how it finance the memorials, under one. Two, to keep records of all war memorials in the country and abroad. Under three, to codify now applicable regulations from the matter of the protection of war memorials. The second law I'm going to talk about is the Bill of Amendments and Supplements on the financial support of the family with children. In all the wars so far, we have lost, or in World War II, as well as the wars of the 1990s, about two million inhabitants. It's a big tragedy. We are an old population and are in fourth place in Europe by the number of old people. The kids are gone, and that's why somebody says it's a population policy. Of course, the population policy, because for the first time, when the SNS arrived in 2012, this government, led by the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, decided to improve the birth rate. How? By stimulating the population, by giving birth. How? Children's accessories, mothers they're going to give birth to, first, second, third and fourth children, and that's a great measure. I've never heard one government stimulate birth. Someone said it should be in fifth, sixth, seventh child. It should, but right now, in terms of how much money there is in the budget, it's quite enough stimulant. What should be pointed out is that, in the context of financial support to the family with children of great importance, the parental supplement and indeed in this law, we should all agree, because there was a public debate, on the site of the Ministry, was a complete law on the e-portal, anyone who wanted, who was well-intentioned, who wanted any information, to supplement this law, could have done so. Also, a draft of this law was made. Many ministries, other than yours, participated in it: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Republic Institute for Social Protection, the Regional Secretariat for Health, then NAED, as an NGO, UNICEF. If they said the law was good, I have nothing to add. What fascinates me is that the parental supplement in Serbia will be increased since 1 July 2018, and that for the first child one-time cash aid will be 100,000, for the second child there will be 240, for the third child 1,440,000 and for the fourth child 2,160,000 dinars. This is how the government is responsible. Care of children and the population is what the SNS target is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40605	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. She's not present. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go, colleague Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40606	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, with my associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will remain in my presentation today on two draft laws. I'm going to talk about the memorials, and I want to say that, unfortunately, we are one of the countries, in fact we are a people whose bones are scattered all over the Balkan Peninsula, Europe, and the world. The 20th century behind us was very scary, it halved our population, and beyond the 20th century there were many graves of Serb warriors who created and tried to preserve what we have today. Both in Serbia and in the surrounding countries, or wherever the Serb people lived, there remained the sides of our army and our people, who were knowingly destroyed by the markings and every clue a few decades later. All we can think of is military cemetery in today's former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, a skeleton and cemetery in Thessaloniki, on Krf, Kaymakalan, as well as other countless strategic sites of our army created during the withdrawal through Albania, to the Blue Cemetery. Also, Serbia is full of fatalities and heroic defense sites from, as a rule, a stronger opponent. Some of these places are marked, let them still wait to get their mark, so that future generations know that Serbia was created and that Serbia was defended. From Norway to Algeria and Morocco, from France to the Middle East, there are memorial centres of Serbian and Allied military cemeterys. Some in the war, some in captivity, some in the best of revenge on the Serbian people, and often I have to mention that brother to brother, only under the second hat, have left their lives far from home, far from all theirs. In the hope that the 20th century suffering will never happen again to our people, in the hope that there are too many and frequent deaths behind us and that there will never be another new war memorial again, I call on all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament to vote on this bill in the day of voting, but also all the other draft laws that we are discussing today. As regards the second draft of the law, which I will only issue a few notes on, because a lot is said in the opening presentation of Minister Djordjevic and Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as well as by my MPs, or SNS MPs. I just want to say that Serbia has been in a very bad demographic situation for the last few decades because of the constant negative rate of natural growth in the entire Serbia population, both in the rural and urban environments. The birth rate is, statistics say, 30% below the need for a simple renewal of the population. Unfortunately, mortality is significantly higher than the birth rate over a long period of time. The causes of this demographic situation are numerous. I mention some of them – underbirth, postponing of marriage and parenting, increased abortions, especially among adolescents and minors, ageing of the population, depopulations of the population, etc. Statistics show that in 2005, the number of births was 72,180 of the deaths 106,771, and natural growth that year was minus 34,5. In 2010, the number of born 68.304, the number of deaths 103.2011, natural growth minus 34.9. In 2015, the number of births 65,657, number of deaths 103,678, natural increase minus 38. In 2016 the number of born 64,734, the number of deaths 100,834, natural growth minus 36,1. This demographic situation in Serbia has been in recent decades, according to some demographic experts for half a century. We're not the only ones at risk. This demographic trend is all over Europe. The old continent, thought of Europe, bears this name for demographic reasons. The white plague, unfortunately, and the European trend, in 17/03/2018, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic proposed the measures of the population policy implemented in the proposed legislative solution. The law is an important instrument of population policy and this law contributes to the achievement of the objectives set out for the implementation of the strategy to encourage birth. The law shows an unequivocal definition of the state to deal with white plague problems. At the end of the presentation, I'd also like to say that I'm putting on a special accent that the family is the place where each one of us is built and formed. Family is the pillar of every society and every state. By taking such measures and concrete steps as are prescribed by this law, the institutions of the family and all its values are, above all, in order to continue to be preserved, because the functional and sufficiently materially secure family gives birth. All mentioned is about the development of the nation, the prosperity of the people and all the fluids on which one society and the demographic perspective of its population rest. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40607	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go, Dr. Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40608	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I was hoping that Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic would be there not to argue with her, but rather that in recent days we had a meeting where I went to her on behalf of the Serbian movement Dvera and a little talk about this law that I am going to talk about, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for Families. Unfortunately, some of the doubts and advice he would give and which might be implemented in all of this will not have her directly to hear, but I have no doubt that you will pass it on to her. Yesterday, Mr. Minister, for 13 points, that's why you used the good 90 minutes, I'll try to place this in one or three minutes. For twenty-seven years, we in Serbia have a negative natural growth. For twenty years, there has been a Serbian Dvora movement as a family movement, and for twenty years we've been talking about it. Finally, after 20 years, someone remembered, said it was the president of the state of Vukic, a great honor to the president, better ever than never to start doing anything about it. Someone just said -- when will there be results? There won't be any results in a year. The Russian Federation of Serious Measures has taken full 10 years to return natural growth to zero after 10 years. He's only now waiting for the fruits of his work. This example of the Russian Federation and the country's example in the environment, Hungary, are examples we should follow when we talk about family policy. What question would the Minister ask - why four children? Why not five? Why not six? What about those who have more children? For God's sake, the World Health Organization said that four children are giving birth well and healthy by women over it is not. If that's what you're hearing, it's a mistake. My grandmother had nine, she didn't miss anything. The recommended policy and pro-proliferation policy should not only be in the financing segment. It's got to be in all segments of action, and I don't see the promotion of the right so-called. The LGBT population fits into this story we're talking about. I was just listening to the family story. Mr. Minister, there is no definition of what family is in any law in the Serbian state. Serbia's Dvora movement is constantly drawing attention to it as a natural community of husband and wife. Unfortunately, we don't have that. Time will show us how right we are. TV programs like educational programs, what do they let us do? What reality programs? Whether it can act positively on family policy and should have been thought about it in this law. I'm not saying that they should be abolished, they need to be severely taxed and taken from there so we can finance both the fifth and sixth children. And the question that only principled itself – what about the huge number of abortions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40609	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40610	I thank the chairman. There's a curiosity one to agree on something with the previous speaker, and I'm glad the previous speaker just recognised the results of this government and the results of Alexander Vukic on population policy. And I'm glad that he pointed out what's true, which is that no government before this has ever approached this way to solve this big problem. What bothered me personally is the insistence that only his movement stands for family values. If that's the case, I urge him immediately to give up his boss or leader of that movement, who is on one side of the family's worth, and on the other side of the attack, and only women are fighting. So he is known to the entire Serbian public for the frequent incidents in which he attacked women. Let's not go off topic. I would like to point out that I strongly support all the proposals that are on the agenda today and very little time left to discuss, there is little time to highlight all that these proposed legislative solutions bring in terms of benefits for citizens of Serbia and the state, but what is very important and what should be pointed out, it is that the amendments and additions of the Law on the financial support of families with children are envisaged to significantly increase the parental allowance for the first, second, third and fourth children, as we have heard several times in this debate. These provisions provide for parents to receive 100,000 dinars for the first child of July 1st this year, for the second child 10 000 per month for two years, for a third child of 12,000 a month for 10 years and for a fourth child 18 thousand a month for 10 years. Someone might say that might not be enough. Someone might say it's small. Are we going to achieve all those goals that we stand for right now? We probably won't, but somewhere it had to start and I'm glad this government, this Serbian leadership led by Alexander Vukic, finally started solving this really big problem. In the process of exercising the right to a parental supplement as special conditions, regular vaccinations of all children are envisaged, as well as regular attendance of children through preschool preparation and regular schooling, and these are concrete steps that the state takes when it comes to population policy, when it comes to fixing demographics, or trying to stop the negative natural growth that we have. It is part of the overall social care for children and concerns the improvement of the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children and confirms the country's commitment to be tackled by encouraging measures, by introducing a parental supplement with one of the biggest problems today, which is an insufficient number of children born. Some who are criticising these solutions today, and I don't mean the previous speaker here, I mean some others, some who criticise both the Serbian and Serbian government, have had years and years at their disposal to do something about it, to bring some concrete measures that would fix the difficult situation on this issue. They had power, they had all the power in this country, and they had plenty of time to implement all the smart solutions they're after today. But that wasn't their priority back then. That wasn't what they were interested in. They were interested in other things at the time. At that time, they were interested in repairing their material position, while the citizens were rapidly poor, they were mostly all rich. In order to be brief, or to leave some time for other colleagues, I will call on us to reject all criticism as absolutely unfounded and to support in the voting day all proposed legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40611	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on line, Dr. Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40612	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So there is no need for the Serbian Dvora Movement to seek or retain exclusiveness for something related to the family. When I said that the Serbian Dvori Movement was the first to speak 20 years ago, I will confirm with another finding, the only political organisation in the world that is a member of the World Congress family is the Serbian Movement Dveri. In that sense, if you consider it exclusive, let it remain that way, but know that the Serbian Movement of the Dvori will support every proposal that comes from the side of the government, which is good for the country as well as useful, always absolutely both in discussion and in action. As far as other matters are concerned, the finding that the president of the political organization I belong to is beating women, the esteemed speaker before me, I'd just ask if he believes it and if he's convinced it's true? If it is, give us some proof, let's see it one time and take it off. And as far as the president's denials are concerned, it's really a finding that's politically ridiculous to me and looks exactly the same as if I told a respected previous speaker that he's giving up the president of his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40613	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Right on the line, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40614	Very brief, Chairman. There's consistency here now. We had a chance to see that from the previous speaker. He mentioned 2011 as the year when his movement was founded. I totally understand that. He probably doesn't want to remember some of the earlier years in which his movement worked, let's say in the 1990s, etc., when he advocated Ljotic's ideology, when he advocated the Ljotic programme, when the president of his movement, or as it's already called, mentally written for some magazines, highlighted the merits of Ljotic in our history, etc. And I fully understand it and encourage it and support it – it needs to give up such an action. I think it's a shame, and I think he realized it was a shame too, and I want to support him in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40615	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40616	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Really, math is cruel and I don't know where a colleague who spoke before me was in 2011? I'm talking about 20 years of the existence of the Serbian Dvora Movement. If we see what year it is now and we take away 20, we'll be long before 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40617	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, colleague Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40618	Thank you, Chairman. I would first refer to this one economic law that we have on the agenda of our session, which is the law on the simplified engagement of seasonal workers. This bill actually plans that the country's fiscal revenues increase over the next five years for, as explained by the law, the planned 15m euros from expected incomes from taxes and contributions to seasonal work. This is another measure of the government, which is in fact an additional fiscal burden on labour and employers, employers whose margins are already quite strained and another measure aimed at the revenue side of the budget which is already balanced and which the Fiscal Council has said would essentially be better off dealing with structural reforms and economic policies, rather than implementing measures aimed at the revenue side of the budget. The law doesn't do any harm, but we have reason to believe that it won't change anything in particular, and here's why -- through the figures that the Ministry alone has given in an explanation. Farmers in agriculture are businesses, about 7,300 agricultural enterprises, which makes up about 1.2% of agricultural employers. Agricultural holdings, 631 thousand of them, of which 99% are family-registered, just over half. There are about 70,000 seasonal workers and 95% of them are unreported. So, those 5% of the reported seasons are practically employed by one percent of the employers in agriculture, so businesses. The law will save them and improve their procedures. But for 99% of employers who, on the other hand, work 95% of unreported seasons, the effect is actually next. Family agricultural holdings that have so far had zero dinars of costs for unreported seasons, I am talking about tax and seasonal contributions, because 95% of them worked on black, now instead of accepting the cost of 11,000 taxes and contributions and five hours of administrative work per reported season, offers a model with a cost of about six thousand dinars per month per reported season and an electronic application for three minutes per day per reported season. So, truth be told, six thousand dinars is less than 11,000 dinars, and daily electronic reporting and checking out is better than the month so far, because it respects and does not tax the days of unemployment due to, say, rain. But from the angle of a farmer, everything is still more and more inefficient than anything, which has so far been the case in 95% of unreported seasonal workers. Practically, those 1% of employers, who reported 5% of the seasons, will feel better. The paorima, which account for 99% of employers in the economy who employ 95% of seasons, will rapidly increase the number of friends and relatives in the fields, as it is prescribed by law that the law does not apply to them. The point is somewhere else. The bottom line is that no one sees the benefit of being registered, you know, to be reported that the season would be paid a pension from which he believes he will not be able to survive or a tax from which the village does not expect to receive any infrastructure or it is almost certain that this infrastructure will not be enough and will not be in due time. In fact, it didn't get into the real motives of working without applying. You know, it's about the relationship and the exchange of values between citizens and businesses on the one hand and the state on the other. A citizen doesn't feel like he's getting adequate value for tax dollars in return, and it's the state's fault that the citizen thinks that. It's not the citizen's fault, because the citizen to pay the tax money, the state gives him back something that doesn't seem worth enough to the citizen. The same is true of a dinar paid into a pension fund. A citizen for a dinar paid into the Pension Fund doesn't feel that the state in the name of pension gets adequate value in return and once again the state is guilty of it, not the citizen. The state is a service to citizens, and if a citizen of the tax dinar and dinar given in the Pension Fund doesn't feel that he gets adequate value and adequate service from the state, he's guilty in the state. The lack of software, the unscheduled procedure, the reduced costs per reported season have not prevented employers from reporting the season. The impediment was an economic cost that this employer cannot bear, and by the way, many seasons also see damages from legally received earnings, because they're credited so they don't want to pay the bill, because they're going to be looted, they want cash on their hands. As for the economic factors that are crucial to having the season's work on black, I'll give you a few examples. Soy fruit last year was a quarter, 25%. Income barely covered expenditures and those expenditures that did not contribute to profits on these 95% unreported seasons. The farmer who was supposed to pay for the arena because the soybeans, which was reduced to one quarter, were won on someone else's land. The farmer is due today to the country's owner and at five hectares is about 2,500 euros in debt. That farmer won't pay for it. Serbia's agriculture actually needs not measures that will be more efficient in filling the budget and measures that will tax the agricultural work stronger, it needs measures to achieve and raise productivity, competitiveness, technology, agritechnical measures, advisory services, raising protection from buying and processing monopolies, and all of this is a multi-resor problem, and for all of this it needs participation and the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40619	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40620	I think you've either misread everything or misunderstood it, and I'm going to try to explain it to you one more time, but I know that you wanted to do it politically and prove that the law is like this or something. First, the fact is, there is no law now regarding seasonals. Right? Secondly, now the situation, you say, there's a way for them to make a deal with them, yes, administrations where they have to sign some paper individually, administrative paper, and work on temporary and occasional jobs. Then your accusations are much greater than those that are now foreseen. It also implies that he loses, if this season is at the National Employment Service, if he receives social assistance and some other kind of help, he would now lose, because he would have a fact job and would work on temporary and occasional jobs. By this law he does not lose any of these rights, even on the contrary remains and is given the opportunity to earn more. Anyone who works today and makes money is required, by law, to pay taxes and contributions, because even when he pays taxes and contributions, he expects something from the other side. You're only talking about retirement. It's not just pensions, it's social and health care. What happens if there's a work injury? Seasons are the ones who work most often in difficult conditions and sometimes very difficult jobs. What's gonna happen? Who, then, handles health and welfare, and who will be punished for not paying or paying or how and how will we treat this man? Will all relatives be in the field? They make a deal between themselves and if they are cousins and if they do, they know that any injury at work or anything else, in which case they have no right to any compensation, not on health or social matters, without talking, like you said, about retirement. Also, at the end of the day, when the day is over, they will be paid for what they have agreed. They can see at the end of the day if what was agreed and respected. Also, they can go to the local offices through friends, and those who are so viseous and possess a mobile phone can even check whether they're registered or not. Which means tomorrow whoever hired them may have a good voice or a bad voice. They'll either have more or they won't have them. So you know how, when you have something and you have the will of the state to go out to that group of workers to meet, to have some privileges, to not lose some privileges, to give them a chance, I think this is a great solution. Whether or not someone will use it, I don't know, but I know it's much, much simpler than it is now and much, much less administration has than it is now and that is the purpose of this law. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40621	You have no right to a replica, colleague Guric. (Vladimir Djuric: Why? None of the conditions have been met. (Vladimir Djuric: I was misread. You're an excellent interpreter. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40622	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members, respected citizens, today's agenda is just a confirmation that this session, as well as the previous one, has been resolving very important issues and giving answers to everything that has been answered for years, something and decades ago, had no answer. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on War Memorials, exactly the draft law, not amending and supplementing it, but a bill, a brand new law that will finally define the way of governance, or who and how will take care of war memorials, and thus we will at least try to repay our ancestors in some way, and the history and wars that are in our genes are something that cannot be separated from the present and something that we have to take care of on a daily basis. What's very important is that this law defines who's responsible for maintaining exactly war memorials and who's responsible gives us the answer to the question of who's going to take care of our past in the coming period, and who cares about our past is also taking care of our future. The second item of the agenda is primarily important because it defines the law on the employment of seasonal workers, i.e. the new law, the law that has never existed and the law that no one has ever thought about, and all these years, all these years ago, seasonal workers exist and just the introduction of these people from the gray zone into the white zone and the introduction of those people to the open door where someone who does seasonal jobs will finally be taken care of primarily the social and health message that speaks for themselves enough, that we have a law that treats some 70,000 people and that is, above all, a small step perhaps, at first sight, for those who dispute this law, but this is a big step for those who are working precisely on these seasonal affairs. Data is the possibility that a worker who, up until now, did not exist as a statistical error, literally did not exist, that literally with one call from the house, from the apartment, from the office, from the field, in three minutes he could apply and become someone who was primarily social and health care for a lower rate of taxation than the regular registered workers. Everything that once looked like an impossible mission, including this law on seasonal workers, that is, after the debate and hopefully the acceptance of the majority in this assembly, will be something that will be applied in action. Is it the perfect law? Probably not. Can you do better? If it turns out to be necessary, it'll be changed and we'll change everything we need, but this is a start that's good and that's the best we can do right now. At the same time, the dispute at all costs of this very law, one of the previous speakers said – we want cash on our hands. The cash on the hands is past and more, in accordance with all the measures that are being taken and the laws that are being passed, the cash on the hands and what is mine here and what can be on black, and what on the white will be the past, and I think we'll just remember, of course, the ugly and negative past that the "yellow company" carried with it. In their time, not if it wasn't for the gray zone, I'd call their business a black zone. Not that they didn't care about people who were seasonally engaged, they didn't care about people who were in a permanent working relationship and for a very short time 500,000 people, half a million people, were out of work, no certified health books, no financial support, no pay and no future. New jobs, new companies, every day foreigners who invest and exactly the Foreign Law, which is another law that is on the agenda, shows that we want these foreigners to be clearly aware of what they are entitled to, which are ways, that is several different models, but what is common to all these models is just the creation of a business environment that will allow foreigners to become employed in the simplest way and be part of the system, that is, part of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that both the municipality of Ruma, and Shabac, and Loznica, and Koceljeva, and Pančevo, and Smederevo, all these cities existed before the arrival of SNS to power, but as far as foreigners were concerned, these cities did not exist, Serbia did not exist on the list of countries where anyone would invest, and on this day believe that there is not enough room in the industrial zone for all potential investors to come. There was room for Rum and before Sladjan Mancic and Martinovic, the president of the municipality and the president of the Assembly, and there was Koceljev before Veran Matic and Loznica, but through these measures, which the government of the Republic of Serbia applied and the ideas that Aleksandar Vucic used in 2012, until today, new jobs were opened, the economy was increased and the economy increased, and this is one of the first conditions to increase birth. The measures proposed, which is that families with children are stimulated by 18,000 euros for a third child, or 24,000 for a fourth, shows that everything, from the mention of the 1st point of the agenda – concerns about war memorials, to the care of families with children, shows how much this government and this state is responsible and how much it thinks about the future, because without maintaining and remembering and respecting our past and investment in families and children, or in the future we cannot expect a strong Serbia and a strong state. The rights of combatants, the rights of military people and their families are also one of the points of the agenda and will redefine some of the ambiguities that existed in the previous law, but I would certainly also tell the previous speaker and all those who spoke negatively about these measures that they were definitely wrong and that they are saying at all costs something that is not true and it would be correct that, precisely if they say something, they would think about what they are saying, because it must have at least some elemental meaning and any answers and confirm that what they say has some basis. What this government is doing and, of course, the President of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly the National Assembly in this meeting are serious results and serious tasks are which will show results very quickly in the coming period. That there are responsible municipal and city administrations, some more responsible, some more, some less, shows exactly the city administration in Loznica, which for several years has been segregating 12,000 euros for each child born and, of course, these financial incentives, which are already defined by this law, will be an even greater incentive measure not only for Loznica, but for the whole region. I expect anyone who thinks well of their fellow citizens and their families, or even future generations, to support these laws, particularly the law on financial support for children. I come from the town of Sapca, where, believe it or not, leftovers of the yellow company can still be called in a permanent working relationship to temporary and occasional jobs, because from 2014 to today, it is a period of four years, it has a constant engagement in temporary and occasional jobs, as much as possible. The salary of 100,000 dinars on temporary and occasional jobs is just a piece of information that shows that if someone doesn't want to stick to the law and stick to the law, he doesn't, of course, do it, and that's primarily a confirmation that they don't know where they're going and they don't know what they're doing. When I say -- they -- I mean Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic -- and, as I say, what they call a party -- together for censorship. I will note for the citizens of Sapco and for the citizens of Serbia that there are such city administrations, dozens of employees in the city's administration and local public enterprises without government approval and in the coming period, of course, I expect the state's reaction and budgetary inspection of the finance ministry, which will finally answer the question of who has the right to work and who does not, who is employed under the law and who is not. What is commendable is that all these laws and laws that we adopted in previous sessions strengthen Serbia's strength and strengthen the team that Aleksandar Vukic has gathered around him. Alexander Vukic's team is not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not just ministers and it is not only the parliamentary majority. Alexander Vukic's team are all citizens and all those who vote for SNS and, what's good, the team of Alexander Vukic is getting bigger and bigger from day to day. They show this, of course, and the results in all the elections held from 2012 to today. What's good for Serbia, the Alexander Vukic team is getting bigger and bigger. The results will, of course, be better and better accordingly, and Serbia has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40623	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40624	Thank you, Chairman. This is one, in general, a good set of draft laws, and that is what we, as MPs, should welcome. Maybe it didn't have to be such a package, and maybe it would have been better if at least some of them, some of these laws, had gone public. It's simple, something that's obviously a good intention of the promoter, public debate can sometimes be a clear formality, sometimes it's often done, we know how often it's been forged, and it's just formally determined, but then there's some logical objections, which can be heard, removed, or some dilemmas and inconceivables, so I think that this law, which is practically only disputed, at least from the angle of the opposition MPs or the most controversial, this working engagement on seasonal affairs, this point two, would probably be a little better and a little bit longer, that there would be some proposals that, I would say, and the good intentions of the promoter, which I don't doubt at all, and that wish that these few tens of them, we've heard, 70 thousand people working on these jobs to sort of work in a way, to make it easier for them to get into the system, to have this kind of a dead paper, and to tell you in fact, to be more. It is clear that you need to find a way to help those people who do, too, that is a large number of people who work on these jobs, and at the same time those who hire them. So these are mahma farmers, as has already been said, family agricultural holdings, at least qualified workers working on these jobs. I'm sure, and that's what some colleagues have said here and we can read those items now, but I would spend this little time I have, that these registration conditions that are listed are simply in most cases inconclusive, unsuitable and sometimes even comical. So, with the record of the application and the check-in of the seasonal workers, he says that in the calendar month until 10.00 a.m. for the first shift, i.e. between 13.00 and 15.00 hours for workers working on the afternoon shift to perform this application. Then, check out when it's done... I think they're finesse that it's clear that they're practically invaluable in the largest number, not to say in 99% of cases, and that they're going to make it harder or not actually contribute to the fact that this large number of people who work, that's how they get into the system. However, it is commendable, I must say, and there has been doubt among us on this side, which in Article 9, it is said that during the course of these activities, a seasonal worker is not deleted from the unemployment records, nor is payment of the cash compensation suspended, so in that sense these people are not damaged, and I don't think it will benefit even as well as the proposal's intention. As for what's indisputable, that's what I'll personally, and I suppose my colleagues, too, are pleased to vote on, is this War Memorial Act. I don't think there's any doubt about that, but there's some things I'd like to change, for example. We're not an amendment intervention. We will support amendments that will surely be in that direction, and I would like to ask a Mr. Minister about this. He may have been responding somewhere and partly, but I think that this Council of seven members, the composition of the Council of the Free Wars of Serbia, is quite unfortunately composed, where of the seven members of this Council for the Care of the tradition of all three members of the university, one from the order of the University of History Professor, one on the proposal of SANU, one on the proposal of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Monuments, and even four members from the Order of the Authority of the State Administration, and two members on the proposal of your ministry, one from the Ministry of Defence, and one from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I guess. I don't think that proportion is happy and it's no problem for you to change it in the meantime or for some amendment that will definitely go in that direction, anyone, any of your colleagues, to support it in that direction. What's also questionable, and I'd say it can be disputed, but I say in this law that I support, this article 22, where it's written and listed when it won't be allowed to raise a memory. All this seems to be in order at first sight if its content does not correspond to historical real facts, I ask who determines whether the proposed memory content does not correspond to historical or real facts if it offends general and state interests, national and religious feelings? It can also be discussionable, especially in some parts of our country where we have memorials that are quite problematic about it, it's also mentioned in this discussion. The person who beat up fascist, Nazi and chauvinist and separatist ideas or ideologies, but does not refer to persons who have been rehabilitated in accordance with the Rehabilitation Act. I mean, that's a lot of volunteering, and it's quite problematic who's finding it. What is commendable is Article 24 but I think it will be the most difficult to achieve, it is a record of the dead from the beginning of the First Balkan War. Unfortunately, it goes to the expense of not this or that government, but all of us, and all of us, and the last 50 years, and even more, that we don't actually have a complete record of the victims of the First World War, or of World War II, or of Jasenovac, or of these last wars, including in 1999. It's very bad and very sad, I don't think your ministry will be able to achieve it, but it's not bad, that at least it's going to go that way, so as far as it gets, it gets here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40625	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Firenjan Pantovic. Here's my colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40626	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use my time to say a few words about the War Memorial bill. I think that this law is not only important because its adoption clearly defines jurisdiction, stronger responsibility, rationality and efficiency of the units of local self-government and other institutions, as well as individuals, and thus creates the necessary conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage related to wartimes. It is important, and I would like to stress this in particular, which is the debate on this law to remind and update the cultivation of tradition for future generations, because besides the language, letters, history, customs and beliefs, the immovable cultural heritage represents one of the identification codes of each nation. After years of destroying our national identity, humiliating, destroying our army, which defended the Serbian people, there came a time when Serbia can clearly protect its people, and when we can proudly remember our glorious history. Today, Serbia regularly marks the holidays of our rich but also the history of disaster. And what is particularly important is that it marks them along with the Republika Srpska and thus clearly works to strengthen the unity of our people. Serbs are the people who suffered the greatest genocide compared to the number of Jewish people during the 20th century. While other nations were glorifying and celebrating their victims, we had a situation in which we were somehow ashamed of our national identity, and therefore I am pleased to announce the construction of a memorial centre at the Old Fair where all Serbian victims of genocide should be listed. Our people survived three genocides in the 20th century. First, in the First World Work, when the Austrian soldiers, and the Croats dressed in their uniforms, committed monstrous crimes in Machva, Pomoravlje and other parts of our country. During World War II, the greatest genocide over the Serbian people in the area of so-called "The World War". independent states of Croatia, where Serbs have been systematically killed in Jasenovac, Pag, Jadovna, and do not forget that Jastrebarsko camp, a unique world specialising in the pogrom of children, also existed. And the verticals of Croatian genocide policies continued during the wars in the former Yugoslavia, when more than 220,000 Serbs were expelled in action, and more than 2,500 civilians were killed. And here today they're banning Cyrillic, breaking Cyrillic plates, taking away property. Unfortunately, so far, we have not had a single base where all our victims are numbered, and the size of one nation is seen precisely in relation to its ancestors. The announced construction of a memorial complex is a great opportunity to correct this injustice. It is necessary to list all victims, to establish a scientific and educational institute to deal with genocide research. It would be one of the largest collections of genocide documents on the Serbian people in the 20th century, so that generations that come never forget victims, and that crimes committed against Serbs never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40627	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40628	Thank you. After almost 15 years of the existence of the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution, its amendments are proposed. We didn't expect the ladies and gentlemen of the government to recognize you as the problem that the Agency for the Peace of Dispute Resolution did not live in our practice, and at least slightly relieved the courts and that you would try to solve this problem with fundamental changes to the law, but not only this but the system laws that regulate the relationship between employers and employees. We didn't expect you to recognize the difference between labour discrimination disputes and discrimination as a general concept, since, according to the applicable law and amendments, it turns out that the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Disputes is responsible for all aspects of discrimination. We didn't expect you to sharpen the conditions for the appointment of adjudicators and peacemakers, since they're so set up that every legal reference can be an arbiter, but at least we expected you to try. I don't know if you're aware that overlapping with the many responsibilities of labour inspectorates, courts of different rank and a dispute resolution agency leads to absurd situations where the same legal concept of these three applicators apply in a completely different way, and that's quite logical. The director of the inspectorate is not a lawyer, so the man interprets the law in one way. Arbitar doesn't have a judicial exam, so the same legal provision is interpreted differently than the director of an inspectorate from whom he knows more, but different from the judge he knows less from. In the field of labour law, there is total chaos, and you obviously don't want to try how much it brings to acceptable limits. This law, as well as the current Labour Act, is a proof of the complete intricacies of its creators, who are not even well ruled with basic concepts. The Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution, ladies and gentlemen is not a court, it is neither arbitration, it is a state body of a very discriminatory captainate. If you really want arbitration, and we believe that the same as in organised societies should exist arbitration and have importance and capacity in practice, then set it up, but for this it is necessary to carry out a deep analysis and judicial practice in the field of labour disputes and the Labour and Practice Act of the Labour Inspectorate. I don't know if you're familiar with it, but enough is enough, it has a ready strategy to solve the long-term work dispute problem, just as it has a strategy to strengthen the capacity of arbitration. But that's why you don't need to create paradours in the form of agencies, but you need to change the Law on litigation in the work that regulates labour disputes, as well as the Labour Act. But to begin with, it will be enough to eradicate the slave treatment of foreign companies that receive our money in the name of subsidies, so that our workers for a few hundred euros will be slaves in their own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40629	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40630	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished ministers with associates, Mr. Neric, respected citizens of Serbia, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will hold all draft laws on the agenda, so it is a set of laws in the field of social policy and martial law. First of all, as an MP of Unity Serbia, who has two MPs in the Labour Committee, I will commend the work of the resolution ministry, both on the Labour Committee and here today in this principle debate. I believe that all these laws that are before us and that we are deciding on have already been kind of filtered on the Labour Committee, and we have all agreed that the ruling majority MPs, as well as the opposition MPs, are very good laws. Also, what I particularly want to stress is that the Republic of Serbia is leading a very good policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic, as has been shown yesterday, when another state withdrew earlier. So this is about Liberia, which has withdrawn an earlier recognition of the recognition of an independent state of Kosovo. It's a very good way, given that in the past six months five states have withdrawn this recognition, since it was not enough information they owned at the time they gave this confession. Minister Dacic informed us that he would conduct negotiations with ten other countries that would do the same in the coming period. As for the very law on supporting the family with children, I am sorry that there is no minister present and without portfolio Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, but I hope Minister Djordjevic will be able to do the same in this area when it comes to measures of the population policy strategy to answer some of the questions I would ask him. So, the Unique Serbia will support all these laws relating to family support with children. And I would disagree with a previous colleague who said that no one in Serbia has ever implemented these measures of population policy. We have Jagodina and Dragan Markovic Palm, who for 14 years has been implementing measures of population policies and stimulating the fight against white plague, properly guided demographic policy, supporting mothers with one, two, three, four and more children, as well as supporting birth and support when it comes to mothers, i.e. future mothers who are only able to achieve their role as a mother and where we believe that the state should also give even greater support to these mothers who are unable to finance this way of pregnancy themselves. It is crucial that the state of Serbia recognises the importance of population policy and everything we do, we do in order to keep as many young people in our country as possible, to keep as many young people in the environment as possible, especially in the rural environment, since I come from the municipality where on the other hand, that there are municipalities where there is a positive trend, when it comes to birth, such as Jagodina and where we have more and more students of champions every year, so there is a positive birth rate, we have municipalities and particularly rural environments where we have a negative birth trend. I talked to Minister Djukic Dejanovic about this when we were bringing the budget, where she said the funds would be increased to invest even more in these municipalities that have a negative trend in birth. This is very important and I say also as an MP and how the parent of a male child who is educated in our country, where I want all young people to stay to live in their country, to have a birth, like, after all, by the reputation of our ancestors and to keep these young people different measures, such as these measures of population policy, as well as measures in some way to allow mothers and children or families with more children free education. So, this is very important in order to be preserved as a nation, because according to statistics, if these measures had not been implemented and no such good law had been proposed, Serbia would have disappeared as a nation in 40 years. However, what I particularly want to ask Minister Djordjevic, of course, with all the respect for the law that is good, will he apply mechanisms and measures when it comes to mothers who already have one, two or four children and how to solve, let me say, the problem and these mothers in a longer term, as well as to give more support to mothers with children distracted by development and children with disabilities, because these angels really deserve, as well as their families who make great efforts, even greater support for society? All of these are measures that look at pro-futuro, which means in the future, for the properly guided demographic and population policy of our country. Certainly, for us from the Unique Serbia, the family is a pillar of society. It is made up of women, mothers, men and children, and we will never give up, so that I do not agree with the inscriptions that stand in the paper – we will form the first gay in Serbia. In the period when we talk about measures of population policy, we must absolutely support a healthy family. I would especially like to commend this law regarding war memorials, as well as the law relating to fighters, wartime military disableds and families of fallen fighters. Indeed, the warriors of war that Serbia has never, I say, caused but has been drawn into such wars, liberating wars, deserve all the dignity and attention of our country, as well as their families. And it is commendable that the Ministry and children of Firefighters, as well as children of war fighters, have now allowed more than 40 schools, i.e. higher education institutions, free schooling, but also that wartime military disabled people can be treated free of charge in Banja Lukas. Let me just say in the end that the JS parliamentary group will support all the bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40631	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40632	Mr. Arsic, I have a question for you and I'm reporting for an article. 27th and 32nd and 107th. This morning, at the beginning of the session, the Assembly was informed and the MPs who were absent from the session. There, yesterday you said colleague Stefana Miladinović, today she returned to regular work, but here, it's been 20 and more days, how many passengers went through Frankfurt airport, how many planes took off and landed, and no one knows where Meho Omerovic was, after that petty robbery there and stealing perfume, lipstick, cream, etc. Can you, Mr. Arsic, use your authority as vice president of the National Assembly and see where that man is? Here, and Rose Nikolic asked for it more than once. She wanted to question him all about the case, to admit that he was stealing there, and to simply be relieved from the post of chairman of the board, because it's a disgrace and a disgrace. But really, is it possible, here, that's one question for you, that you explain it as a man with so much political and congregation experience, there's a minister of work, I don't know, so many inspections went through Serbia in various places and businesses these days, and no one can find out where a Meho Omerovic is? We really can't wait any longer to guess when he'll show up. Did he go to some season job? But, no, I don't think so. That's what they're getting me now. No, it's not, it's not. It's important to him somewhere where he can get a change of clothes, take it this quickly. What a seasonal job, it's not for such a personality profile so, Mr. Arsic, if you would be kind, here, there, as far as I can see in the e-parliament for about an hour for this principle debate. I asked you the other day, I waited, I really thought that by today you would somehow find out something, that you would be conducting an internal investigation like Veroljub Arsic. You know, this report from the detectives and the official police arrived from the freezer. It was seen that he approached and stole.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40633	Thank you. I have no intention of conducting private investigations. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Well, let's start an initiative. ) Well, you can launch the initiative as a People's MP. Really, I'm in this session right now. According to what you have marked as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is really not in the jurisdiction of the chairman, so I do not see where I have violated the Rules of Procedure which I do not know where Meho Omerovic is. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I don't want to make a statement. Don't you want to? All right. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40634	Dear Members, let me try to answer your question. Of course, this law is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. We worked it together, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and I. Her help was more than, I can say, great and invaluable, given her experience which she had both her pawnage and her engagement before and before and when she was making the Strategy. Of course, it's primarily for us, and now I'm trying to say that this isn't about any help. Of course we need to see in the future how and how we can help families, but this is primarily about incentive. That's why there's no word here about any compensation that would have been made to some children who were born a few years ago, we're already talking about inciting birth, because we've noticed that in Serbia from year to year, as has been said here, the demographic image is worse and worse, and we as a nation are disappearing. There was something to be done and this is just the beginning. I believe there's gonna be a lot of it. Yesterday I also talked about the media campaign and the involvement of other state authorities, including SANU, then the churches, the media and everything else, education, culture, because we all have to work together on it, because I think that's the only way we can get out of this big problem that's out of control over our country. Generally, yesterday I said, they're right to claim that they won't be able to get rid of it in a year. All practice shows that in those countries where something moved, the first results were only a decade later. The right time may have been a long time ago, and it's next today, and we're trying to do something. I'm sure in the coming days you'll see a lot of other things that we're going to do, and it's probably going to be something else that's going to come out as a good measure, because it's important that something happens in the future. I believe that in some future period some new laws, which again have touch points with this problem, will enter the assembly procedure and be before you MPs. What I also wanted to tell you, when it comes to helping families and mothers who now have children, we certainly plan to go with a change of the entire set of laws in the second half of the year. One of them is the Family Act, the other is the Social Protection Act. There will be a new law in front of the Assembly, which is the social card law. He should, primarily, after changing these first two to predict in the future a more transparent spending of money, a fairer spending of money, and ultimately a better distribution of that money. I believe that with these measures, we will be able to allocate money to those who need it, and if we are successful in that and when we present it to the Assembly, I believe that you in the budget for some of the coming years will vote for the increase and so on and so on to make that money more just. That's how we're gonna take care of those who already have children. I wanted to answer Mr. Vukadinovic, too. Public debates about all the laws that are before you today, which we were obliged to have, were. When it comes to composition, we have made sure that the state, since it is the one who ultimately decides and finances everything, and also imposes some rules and local self-government, and also cares about abroad, is in the majority. There won't be any decisions that are past the state, but still to be in the majority, but also to take care of the structure. You can see there's one from the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, SANU historians. Believe me, there will probably be people from the Department of Defense who are doing this job, foreign affairs, because it's very important for us to have a good connection with our ambassadors so they know which ones they've memorialized and what state they're in abroad to record and have a whole list of all our memories abroad and what condition they're in, that we can make some plan about it. We certainly won't be able to renovate them in a short time, but surely if we know what's ahead of us, we can go out and say in so many years we'll be able to renovate it, or reconstruct it. It's very important that we have investment programs, that we know who, when, what they're funding, whether it's local self-government, if foreign memories are with us, whether they're foreign states and that we have one clear rule. That's why this is going now. So far, everything has been regulated. Since it was regulated with several laws that were 40 years old and 40 years old, we had to go into making an agreement individually with each country and there was... You know how, we stop, since we don't have a clear basis, negotiating what we achieve. Here we are now raising the scale and saying -- these are some rules that exist in the state of Serbia, and that is initial, let me say, our position in negotiating with anyone abroad. We know very well what we're not going under. Why did we go, when it comes to removing, to make decisions at the ministry? Because it will be immediately after the adoption of this law and sublegal acts that will regulate it, how and how evidence is made that something has been set up that is not bold or against the law. What's important to us is that things like this don't happen in the future, that in the future, we need to know in advance who wants to set up, where he wants to set it up, to explain it well, to prove that he has some historical facts and, in the end, to say who's going to finance it, because it's not just us, so that's, you know, take care of the state or local self-government, but that we know who's going to finance it. Sometimes it's about some great things that require big investment and maintenance, so we want to have some rules. I think it's a great law, that something that we do in our memory business is going to do a lot to help and certainly make it possible in the future, as I told you, which is most important to us, for our country, to record all our memories, to record all those who gave life to our country, to put it all in the base. We now know that there are bases in other ministries, in some other state bodies, in some local self-government, but it's all scattered. There's a overlap somewhere. We all want to have in one base, that we can offer this base to historians and have some, let's say, aggregate information that we can provide that our people have suffered in history and what sacrifices we've had, and not just in some numbers, but that these names are being led somewhere and that even those who are alive today can be proud of having someone who gave their life for their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40635	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40636	Thank you, Chairman. I'll talk about the draft law on financial support for families. First of all, in our opinion, it's a completely unnecessary part of vaccination. So the Dvori really aren't against vaccination, but we're against repression and unnecessary endangerment of the nation's health security. I've repeated it several times before, and in the future I'm going to point out, so we're not against vaccination, but we think that the question of vaccination is a question for the professional public and for professional associations, not for politicians. We think it's very harmful to be repressive to parents, because in this way, the best interests of the child are at stake. As for vaccines themselves, we are concerned about the inability of the current government to ensure the production of vaccines in Serbia. So there is no excuse that the complete process of producing vaccines according to the highest quality standards does not take place in Serbia. We already have the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, which certainly predicts the punishment of parents who avoid the immunisation of their children. So, threatened penalties range from 30,000 to 150,000 dinars, so there's no need to punish parents twice, to deny them financial support at the birth of a child. I think that in the area of health it has been well regulated, and if professional associations are not satisfied with the scope of the vaccinated population, then they need to speed up the information, the comprehensive information of the population on all aspects of the vaccination. Instead of realising the program at national frequencies, inform all generations of the necessity of the vaccine. When the parent raises doubts about the origin and quality of the vaccine, let him get confirmation of the reference laboratory and then we won't have any individuals who cause unnecessary panic, and we won't have double parental punishment. I sincerely hope that during this debate, you will withdraw these vaccine-related members, that this part is regulated by health care, and that the social protection really focuses on the financial support of the family. This law applies only to financial support, and for this reason I will not talk about all the other aspects necessary for the right support of the family, and for Serbia to become a country friend of the family, but I agree that we are all here the last generation that has the opportunity to prevent the nation from disappearing. Of course it's a long process. We are currently at 1.43% of the fertility rate, and for a simple reproduction we need 2.1%. I would refer to these stories of withdrawing Kosovo's recognition as a state. I sincerely hope that this same Minister Dacic will also withdraw his signature from the Brussels Agreement and return this issue to the UN Security Council, where he belongs, where together with Russia and China we can do something and simply prevent our President Aleksandar Vukic from coming into this awkward position that he has to keep his promise and sign a legally binding agreement. So, here, you need to help him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40637	Thank you. Right to replica, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40638	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I want to react because the focus is on amending and supplementing the Law on the financial support of families with children is children. With this law, of course, first of all, it protects itself, the best interest of the child. The rights and duties of parents stem from family law and the right and duty of each parent to care for the health of their child. The child has the right to proper psychophysical development and has the right to his health. This health, among other things, is provided by a parent, and one way is vaccination, one that is foreseen under the Health Protection Act. Therefore, it is the right of a child to a healthy life, and it is the right and duty of parents to care about it. As for the support or assistance offered by the representatives of this political party to Alexander Vukic, I can safely say that Aleksandar Vukic, in the best way and in the interests of the Serbian state, leads foreign policy and does not need such assistance anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40639	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40640	I have to react to the vaccine. You're contradictory. On the one hand, you say you're not against it, and I'll try to explain it, so people will realize that you're actually for those who are against vaccination. So, you're saying that it shouldn't be in this law designed to exclude those who break the law and who don't vaccinate their children, while they have the right to endanger our children's right by not vaccinating their child. You're saying that we should stop them and they shouldn't be punished twice. If we didn't apply this law, they'd have the right to compensation, right? Which means, in order for them to hypothetically get two million and 160,000 for a fourth child and pay the fine, let it be the largest that the Health Protection Act provides, 100,000 dinars. So we would stimulate them not to vaccinate their children, because they would have two million and 60,000 rewards for it. I don't think they have the right if they break the law to have the privilege of benefiting from the state in any way. One who violates the law should be, especially when it comes to a child, when it comes to endangering other children, to be rewarded. When you say we don't produce enough vaccines, you're right, but because of people who are just opposed to vaccination because we don't have enough vaccines for all those diseases that are now occurring because of them. Something that has been eradicated in the world has now appeared to us again and of course no one has predicted that we can have so many infected and that we produce and store vaccines that have a period of time. Of course, then we can't produce a lot of those vaccines for that. I am explicitly a supporter of the need for children to be vaccinated, that children should be given a normal life. There's no evidence that any vaccine threatens life. All of us, I guess, were vaccinated here because in our day it was an obligation, and I think that we also gave our children the opportunity to be protected from such diseases and to one day root out and not exist. We are to support this so that those who do not vaccinate children are punished, that they are deprived of the right to receive the incentive to give birth to the next because they do not, in our opinion, care properly, work in accordance with the law and do not vaccinate. The same goes for education. Education in the Republic of Serbia should exist, I know you didn't say, because it's the right of every child and every parent's obligation to educate their child. So we put that there, too. So about some pandas and one and the other sanctions that we want to have and somehow change people's minds to get people to start injecting their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40641	Right to the replica of the People's MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40642	I thank the chairman. I'm not contradictory. Just the last line of the minister is the right answer, so let's inform the parents. I am against repressive measures, and certainly for vaccination, same as the Serbian Dvori Movement. If you listened carefully, and I believe it is, you can't impute that I'm against vaccination, on the contrary, but against repressive measures. So, comprehensive information to the population. You can explain to your parents why it is important to vaccinate your children, explain to them that these vaccines are produced in Serbia, that there is no danger and then we will not have any problems. Therefore, I do not see that we disagree, but I only suggested that health care deals with health care and social issues to address laws relating to social issues. You're not only punishing your parents, but you're actually punishing those children, which can be prevented by some kind of interstep. So if you are not well and sufficiently prescribed by health care laws, correct those laws, and do not pass the problem on to social issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40643	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40644	Third time today, it's not about social aid to anyone, this is an incentive for birth. It's not about helping that kid at all. You're saying here to end that they have the right to take for the first child 100,000, for the second child of 240 thousand, for the third child of millions and 440 thousand and for the fourth child of 2 million and 160 thousand and not to vaccinate him and to pay the penalty of those other laws and to literally encourage them not to vaccinate children, because there is a way that you'll get, even if you're punished, you'll be fine. Right? (Maria Janjušević: It is politics. ) It's politics. Well, wait, is that how it's gonna happen? That's all I'm asking. If we stop this, will it happen that they get the money, that they don't vaccinate children and be stimulated to make a difference even in money? I think so. (Maria Janjušević: He will not, for he will make sure that the vaccines are good. ) Let me tell you, one thing is persuasion, but the question is whether or not we are going to convince them. We are now working and you have seen that the disease has now returned, that people see that there are even fatalities, and yet again you see that there are those who are supporters of not being vaccinated further. You really think we're gonna make it if we give them more money. I don't think you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40645	The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40646	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. It is very important for children to be born and to grow in birth. Demographic analyses show that Serbia faces a dramatic loss of population. It is therefore necessary to help mothers in order to give birth to more children in Serbia. The provisions of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children are part of the overall social care for children and concern the improvement of conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, special incentives for the birth of children and support for materially endangered families with children with disabilities and children without parental ageing. A correction has been made with regard to incomes which have been influenced by the right to a child's allowance and are related to new amounts of parental allowance for the third and fourth children. The parental supplement is a necessary measure of support for the family, as it is the main instrument of population policy. I would take the opportunity to say that the town of Vrsac is at the last session of the City Assembly, I have adopted a decision that determines the rights to family support in the territory of the city of Vrsac and this is the right to present to the first child born at the beginning of the calendar year, the right to regress the free snack of primary school students, whose family is the beneficiary of the material security of the Centre for Social Work or is a child without parental ageing and the right to co-finance the costs of transportation of secondary school students I would also mention a relief for the parents of newborn children in the form of a free baby parking ticket, which was first introduced last year. This year, it continues with the action, aimed at facilitating parents' parking while visiting a pediatrician and carrying out other obligations expected for the first year of parenting. This is a symbolic way to help people who advocate an increase in birthrights. The town of Vrsac also decided at the end of 2016 that the money paid for traffic violations would be spent on children's car seats. During last 2017, a total of 400 seats were handed to parents, and this practice continued this year. The measures provided for in this bill are necessary, useful and of great importance. By adopting these measures, Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, shows that the serious state and this law clearly and unequivocally demonstrates the state's willingness to deal with one of the biggest problems, which is insufficiently the number of newborn children. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all draft laws on the agenda today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40647	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40648	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Djordjevic and his associates, respected fellow MPs, I will talk today about the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, because above all, it reflects on the mitigation of the economic cost of parenting, then on the harmonisation of labour and parenting and education in the domain of reproductive health and population policy. Then, there is an important focus of work on cities and municipalities, as well as units of local self-government. The ministry of labour and social policy has tabled a proposal to amend the Law on Financial Support for Children's Families in the country, to make mothers more quality in raising children. The bill stipulates that the first child gets one-time financial aid of 100,000, as we heard it several times, is not bad, for the second is 10,000 each month, for the third child 12.000, and for the fourth 18,000 at the monthly level. What my colleague Malusic says, is the beginning, of course, would be good for more children, but right now we have so much to offer our financial opportunities. Mothers who receive a third and fourth child during a close period of time will receive financial assistance of 30,000 dinars each month, within 10 years. This strategy seeks women to be employed, not to stimulate mothers who do not work, and to enable them to better coordinate work and parenting. Therefore, according to this law, aid is directed to the standard of child, not to the financial compensation of a mother without a job. Financial assistance should raise the standard of multi-member families, so that their standard is not less than families with fewer children. If we want to be a modern society, we need to work much more on a partnership relationship, because women in Serbia are overloaded and are trying to meet the obligations that are in line with the traditional obligations arising from cultural habits, as well as to build a business career. In addition, they give birth and raise children, and other activities in the house await them. All of this needs to be coordinated. The strategy provides for a whole range of advisory and other activities related to partnership and the sharing of obligations between both parents. The local self-government unit should work to raise the capacity of children's kindergartens and their own budgets, as there is almost no environment that a certain number of children are not on waiting lists. The sustainability of kindergartens should come from local self-government and cities, such as in suburban municipalities, such as Mladenovac, and not only from grants from the Republika Srpska budget. The city municipality of Mladenovac has been giving birth to the parents of newborn babies for many years, car seats for the smallest age, stretchers in the semi-driving position for the first ride, which are necessary for the first vaccines and to go to the doctor, because they are found to be very rarely bought, rather than only when the child starts to sit on his own. Also, the town municipality of Mladenovac with the town of Belgrade has arranged for the opening of a kindergarten department in schools, in free classrooms to allow women in the country to do business and to socialise and socialise with peers. Other municipalities are also trying to help their fellow citizens. For example, in Shida, assistants tour the electric bicycles of mothers with children and families who are ill older members. It's a combination of a geronto housewife and a babysitter. In many municipalities, the work of kindergartens is coordinated with the obligations of parents and their working hours. In municipalities, counselling centres are developing for biomedical fertilisation, as 10% of couples cannot get offspring naturally and psychological support is very important to them. We have a law that complies with European standards, which we have raised women's age for artificial insemination at 42 years of age with three attempts from the RPO Fund under the ministry's strategy. The fourth attempt is financed by local self-government units and raises the age of 43 and 44. Of course, the general idea of changing democratic images in Serbia with such measures. The measures that led to the turnaround in the demographics of many countries have been analysed. According to experts, the most important and similar situation is the current situation in Serbia with the situation in Russia, which was at the beginning of the 21st century. So the ministry has already taken action, collecting data in co-operation with the Russian Institute of Demography, when it comes to overcoming negative trends and returning positive growth. So much for me on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40649	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go, colleague Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40650	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of extremely important laws that will focus my attention on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. The benefits of applying alternative methods of working dispute resolution are numerous, and they are viewed primarily in the efficiency and economics of the proceedings, party autonomy, volunteering, freeness, informality, quality of work dispute resolution by excluding the need to conduct long-term and expensive proceedings before courts, dispute resolution with the presence of a third neutral party, improvement of party communication in the dispute. In particular, I want to apostrophe that the improvement of alternative methods of resolving labour disputes is crucial in order to respect human rights, the principles of rule of law and the rule of law. In this context, I stress the fact that in a significant number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights against the Republic of Serbia in which a violation of the right to trial was found to have just been a matter of working disputes within a reasonable period. The advantages presented have conditioned the adoption of the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution, which has been applied since 1.01.2005, as well as amendments and additions to the same law since 2009. However, after more than a decade of its application and based on research conducted, different factors and circumstances have shown that this institute remains insufficiently visible and affirmed in our country, so that judicial protection remains the primary form of protection of employees' rights. The best illustration for this conclusion is that only 956 working disputes were launched in 2016 before courts, while only 30 part of the total number of working disputes were launched before the Republic of the Labour Dispute Resolution Agency. Insufficient information, mistrust by employees and employers, poor visibility and organisational technical shortcomings of the Agency, and in particular shortcomings in the legislative framework are only some of the reasons that produced such a negative fact situation in this area. The lack of a legislative framework for the peaceful settlement of disputes in practice leads to difficulties in applying the current law in certain segments, insufficient flexibility and visible advantages of this institute. On the other hand, the benefits of alternative methods of resolving labour disputes are numerous and are recognised by international instruments for the protection of socio-economic rights. This fact-finding situation, i.e. insufficient use of this institute, is negatively manifested and affects the increase of labour disputes before courts, the length of court proceedings, the need for additional financial resources, the creation of a negative business environment, the collapse of the social security of employees and employers. In order to remove these negative consequences, the need to improve the legislative framework for peaceful dispute resolution is inevitably imposed, which is precisely done by the proposed law, which removes inadequate and incorrect provisions of the applicable law, including their compliance with the existing international standards of the international labour organisation and the European Union. The proposed amendments and additions improve alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and offer concrete solutions and legal arguments to improve the law on peaceful settlement of work disputes. Of the many changes and additions, I only want to potentiate some of them. The addition of the provisions of Article 2 of the current law extends the circle of the parties to the collective dispute, and, in addition to the intended participants, employers, trade unions and employees, the strike committee and the founders of public enterprises and public services appear as sides. It also specify and extends the work of the Republic Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, so that changes can be made to the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Disputes, Working Time, the exercise of the right to vacation, the payment of earnings and wages, severances, the payment of jubilee prizes, but also the abuse and discrimination. Under the current law, workers can start an individual dispute only because of cancellations, contracts for minimum earnings and discrimination and abuse. As for the procedure itself, the deadline that the other party has on the proposal for a peaceful dispute settlement has proved to be too short, so it has been extended to five working days. Also, the existing law is not clear enough as regards the time limit for submitting a proposal in activities of general interest and where there is a obligation to ensure the minimum of the work process, where a three-day deadline is prescribed, which in practice creates problems, because the days are not working, and therefore it is now specified that this is a three-day period from the date of the existence of the dispute. The current law prescribed a deadline for ending the collective labour dispute from 30 days from the date of the opening of the debate. However, in practice, this deadline was often short and was limited in the process of peaceful dispute resolution, so that the current changes provided for the possibility that the party's request in the dispute could extend that deadline by another 30 days. The current law provides that all discussions on which the relevant factual situation is to be determined are public, however, in disputes concerning discrimination and abuse of labour, taking into account their nature, sensitive data are often presented, and the right to amend the law provides for the possibility of disfellowshipping the public on the request of the parties to the dispute, if there are reasonable reasons for this. These and all other proposed amendments and additions have the primary objective of improving the legislative framework for peaceful settlement of labour disputes, to strengthen the roles of the Agency in order to resolve as many individual and collective labour disputes as possible in a peaceful and efficient manner, thereby reducing the number of long-term and expensive court proceedings, which will condition the greater visibility of all the advantages of the application of alternative methods of working dispute resolution. They will result in a reduction in the need to allocate additional funding by the state, create a positive business environment and provide better protection in the field of labour and capital, as well as increased social security of employees and employers. I am absolutely sure that the proposed amendments and additions create assumptions for the realisation of these objectives, so in that belief the SNS parliamentary group will support this and all other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40651	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40652	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, the whole set of laws proposed points to one single truth, which is that the Serbian government treats its citizens domestically, in order to improve living standards and find ways to provide future generations with a vision for life planning in its country, with the preservation of national identity and tradition. I'm going to refer to the Financial Support Act for families with children, because I think that caring about family and supporting the rise of birth is one of the most important items that we need to worry about, as we can see for ourselves, our government has found ways. The improvement of living standards and conditions in order to meet the needs of one family is an incentive to increase the birth rate, as improving economic conditions is one of the basic causes that have affected almost half of the families with only one child in Serbia, and the number of families with four or five children is very small. The data tells us that in Serbia, the most represented families with one child, i.e. 51%, of the total number of families with children, are families with two children, while families with five and more children are at least represented, or 0.4%. Therefore, solutions providing financial support for the birth of children, and for a longer period of time, represent an exceptional incentive and security for one family. In addition to this type of incentive, a whole series of projects are increasingly involving local self-government units. The families of Novi Sad who have three and more children will be able to have a reduction in utility bills up to 50% this year. Užice is the second city in Serbia, after Cačka, to be implemented by the project "A proud card – Price minus 3 plus" of the Children's Movement, with several family members performing a discount in shops, institutions and services. These projects were supported by a large number of cities in Serbia. The very project of building cheap apartments is also a stimulant and a boost of the state to allow for an increase in the birth rate. However, Serbian citizens must not forget that the number of jobs in businesses and institutions in Serbia has been reduced by more than 400,000 from 2001 to 2012. The previous government systematically came up with the idea of bringing down the economy in Serbia, hence the number of those who have lost their jobs. A huge number of foreign privatisations through which they laundered money, impoverished people, and thus blackmailed them to work for small money with private people they raised. That's one of the basic reasons why young people turned to finding a way to survive and forget about the greatest wealth of the family. We must not forget Gilas, who boasted that he was building kindergartens right in the middle of Belgrade. In the pioneer town, he literally hijacked an object, lying about building for children. From the beginning, they had a project to build a Big Brother house, a studio, an office for their company with fake documentation, under the pretext that they would make their facility for the stay of children. In 12 years, as long as the contract lasted, the pioneer town didn't even earn a dinar, but that's why their pockets were filled and I sincerely hope these gentlemen will be held accountable. We build schools and kindergartens because Serbia needs children and young people. We open factories and we hire, because we want strong Serbia and we give back the desire for life and family. So I give all my support to this government and I congratulate you on your results. In voting day, the SNS will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40653	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40654	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable members of the government, there are many legislative proposals ahead of us, and I will look back on just some. First of all, I'm going to start with this War Memorial Act, because we've been witnessing this decades-old until, to say the least, the misunderstanding in this area because of the lack of legal solutions when it comes to war memorials, or legal solutions, exist, but, let me say, they're already too old and unadjusted to the events behind us. In these past decades, Serbia has waged many wars in which it has fought for the survival of its own state, that is, the state of Serbia and the survival of its own people, and in fact, this law is one positive relationship with all those who in these past decades, if in the past centuries, have installed what is most valuable and allowed all of us and our families to walk freely in this country today. Serbia is a country, too, that can be proud of every soldier who died in any country in the world in any war. There are few countries in the flower that can say the same when it comes to their armies. I see that when you put this legal solution together, you took care of that fact, so in Articles 14 and 15, you define the protection of war memorials abroad, and that's a good thing when it comes to this legal solution. Also, the fact is that in some past time Serbia has had many war memorials that are not, at least, in line with some historical and real facts, as you say, and the smallest ones are in line with Serbia's state interests and this law regulates and that area when it comes to regulating and removing these same war memorials, but it's good that you finally left it to the courts in Serbia, because as a society, we will avoid all possible abuses, that is, all possible politicisation of these and such things, when the removal of these and such memorials throughout Serbia. As far as this law is concerned. By the way, I come from the north of Backa, which is an extremely agricultural area, where agriculture represents one of the most important parts of the economy in general, and I know how important it is for these seasonal workers to participate in these jobs. According to some polls, 320,000 people in Serbia are working in the area of agriculture, and most of them are in seasonal affairs. It is good that you have finally passed a law that will regulate all their rights, including the right to compensation, the right to safety at work and health, the right to insurance, but, on the other hand, I have seen, you have provided for supervision of the application of laws and criminal provisions. Also, this law does not only contribute to seasonal workers, it certainly helps those who are employers, as it will make it easier and without many procedures to report and log out of seasonal workers. In the end, what I left behind, I think it's history, it's this law regarding financial support for the family with children, because for the first time this state has made one systematic and concrete approach to this problem, i.e. A demographic problem Serbia has been facing in recent decades. The truth of the will, somewhere in the exposé, submitted by Prime Minister Brnabic, has already been mentioned and promised to bring emergency measures to encourage birth in Serbia. Only the establishment of a ministry to deal with this issue was also a positive signal, but President Vukic first came out in March with concrete conditions and concrete amounts when it comes to giving, i.e. help to encourage birth in Serbia. However, his government is in the very root of this proposal, because in 2016, during the government of Aleksandr Vukic, the Council for the Encouragement of Birth was established, the Council for Population Policy, and that was the first step in realising the strategy. This is a serious legislative proposal, and I ask you, distinguished ministers with associates, of course, we will support this legislative proposal, but to consider the possibility that all persons exercising the rights under this law, possibly if there is the possibility of achieving and the right to pension-inhabitation and health insurance, unless that right has been exercised on some other basis. I congratulate you on all the legal proposals and inform you at the end that certainly in the voting day we from the SNS will support all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40655	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40656	Thank you, Chairman. I will use the remaining time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group to try to answer the Minister about the Law on the Simplified Employment of Seasonal Workers, since I did not get the right to replicat after my first address. It's just that there's no time to say everything, so somehow we're left unspeakable, and then there's a point in that indeterminateness. I've already said that the economic factor is crucial for working seasons on black from our corner. I set my example from last year when the yield and income barely covered the costs, and those who worked on another's land drove them into loss and debt. Those numbers are harshly accurate. Second case. From 2007 to 2017, raspberries grew from 10 to 20,000 hectares, but the yield per hectare dropped by 38%. We are the total mass of raspberries we produce, therefore, we have increased the offer overall and brought to the already saturated market through apparently extensive production, as soon as the yield of 38% fell, reduced productivity and rentability, and we have come to the situation that the producer at the ultimate retail price of the raspberries participates with only 2%. That's all he's got left and he's got to pay taxes and donations to the trustees. It's nice that GIZ pays for software, and NAD gives a consulting, but maybe the Giz's money and NAD's consulting could have given for something more cellular if you could already choose. Oral bargaining with the employer's obligation to issue at the request of the seasonaler a certificate, whose content no one can compare with the verbally agreed, meeting the season with business risks, going to an investment office where the consultant will softwarely report all seasonal workers every day until 10.00 in the morning, a col-center with two operators at the service of that local office, these are, as I say, unusual solutions and all of this actually acts as an experiment in which we now involve farmers. I would like this experiment, of course, to succeed and to show this in the next five years as a measure to which we will meet employers and seasons of all 70,000 seasons, because of course we agree that the proposed model of seasonal reporting is better than the existing one, because it is a special law and a special regime of labour law for this kind of work. Of course, we agree that according to this special law, the seasonary retains the rights it has in the National Employment Service, which the existing legal model does not allow. We also agree that the new employer model in agriculture should cost 6,000 per month per season and that this is less than the previous 11,000 dinars per month per season, but only for those 1% of employers with only 5% of the reported seasons. We agree that there is also an advantage in registered work in the existence of both pension and health insurance in case of work injury, because health insurance here is limited to that. In my previous presentation, I mentioned the example of a pensioner, which does not mean that I do not know that there is a particular health insurance that the seasoner acquires the right to report him as a worker, but I must tell you that 95% of seasons and 99 employers in the economy have actually agreed that for the money that they would give to the state, they do not receive adequate value in return in respect of legal protection, neither in terms of pension, nor in terms of health insurance, nor in terms of other services that the state would have to provide for that money. That's why the state where 95% of seasonal work is unreported, is a state that currently suits everyone. It is in the state to build trust, and this trust has not been in these people for decades, the belief that this money, the additional 15m euros, over the next five years, that the state will do its part of the job truly for that money. There is no such trust, not even in the private security institution. Two days ago, there was a raspberries on TV, on the news of a hook, complaining that the city had beaten him all up. He says he hasn't secured himself. Earlier when he was secured by the purchased policy, he failed to collect the damage. I said in the previous presentation, it's a multireson thing. This problem from the domain of jurisdiction of the NBS and the governor, because the National Bank is overseeing security. Why haven't farmers trusted insurance for decades? What can the NBS do about it? The issue of trust in the exchange of values between citizens and businessmen on the one hand, and the state on the other. When this trust develops, it is only then that all stakeholders together need to come up with measures that will, in fact, help agriculture create an additional value greater than 15m euros over the next five years, in order for farmers to voluntarily hand over that amount to the state, in the name of taxes and contributions to the reported work of seasonal workers, and that after these 15 million in the next five years, farmers will be satisfied with what remains for them. So we don't need measures that are more effective in filling our budgets based on taxation of business work. We need measures aimed at raising productivity, competitiveness, new technologies, agrotenic measures, advisory services, raising yields, protecting against buying and processing monopolys, so all that will make farmers profit. Unfortunately, software reporting that won't be five hours a month per season, but it's going to be three minutes a day per season, we're skeptical, it's all nice, and it's all ok, but without this one system-based multi-resor approach and without hitting the real causes of the gray economy and the real cause of undeclared work, and it's lying in the economic sphere, I'm afraid that with sincere and good intentions and consultants and those who finance the project, and the ministries that created all of this, I'm afraid the effects will unfortunately fail. I said at first the law does not do harm, but unfortunately I fear that the planned budget revenues of 15m euros over the next five years for the country will not be realised. It seems to me the figure that was designed for some coverage of something less than half the current number of seasonal workers. So much for that from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40657	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40658	It's easy for you to doubt something when there's something, when there's no such thing, there's no doubt about it. You here suspect that we will be successful in providing an opportunity for some seasonal workers who expect it. You're talking about some 1% that will be in this, 99% that won't be covered. Does he when he receives compensation and when he finishes his work day, when he has an oral agreement, when he gets paid that money that he knows the contract is respected and that he can come back tomorrow, does he expect to have pensions for it, both social and health? If he doesn't expect it, then there's no doubt. Then he can work on black and not pay anything, because he doesn't expect anything. But I'm afraid that when he works, he's been led astray, because someone promised him that if he gets hurt, if there's any problems, he'll be taken care of, and he'll be paid pension. Then he was led astray unless he knew how and in what way to check it out. We were looking, and the fundamental difference, you were part of it and you said now that he didn't get some compensation, and he didn't take it off the National Employment Service list on the one hand, and on the other hand we watched how much minimum he needed to pay even though 143 dinars are clock, even though he's working full-time, how much a day he has to pay the smallest tax and contribution, that he has a pension, that he has health care and that he has social benefits. And that's 300 dinars. It's far less than it is for any kind of action that would pay to work at a minimum labour price of 143 dinars, and to have all the benefits that he has left if he does that job. Now you're saying that we're going to mislead 99% of people who, well, don't want that kind of thing. If they don't want it, it's their business and their deal with whoever they're working with. But if they think they have it provided on the other side, then they're being led astray, and the state just allows them to know that we can protect them in that, that we can give them the opportunity to check, and eventually they have paid and that they have some benefit later. When you pay taxes and contributions, it doesn't go into road construction, or infrastructure, or anything, but just for these things that I've told you. Do you think they shouldn't pay without having the right to do that? Wait, how do you think we give them health care, pension and welfare without paying them anything? We looked at it the minimum. And it's just going for that purpose for nothing else. Thank you. [[Vladimir Djuric: If you can make a quick replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40659	You have no right, Mr. Guric. The minister didn't understand you very well. (Vladimir Djuric: So he asked me.) And he asked you. You'll have to discuss that with someone else. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40660	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, there is no dilemma that the SNS in the voting day will support all legislative proposals because they are adequately considering the issues of the past, the present and the future. As far as the SNS is concerned, these laws allow memory and respect for the victims of Serbia's Liberation Wars. I must stress that since 4 August 2015 on the government's proposal, and then the Prime Minister is the current President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, is also marked on 4 August as the day of the death of the refugee Serbs from all territories of the former SFJR. The Day of Remembrance was held in Raca, in Busi and Veternik so far, and the markings of this day will continue. I would also like to point out that the SNS will vote in favour of the proposed laws because they are adequately curbed by the grey economy and fosters a legislative framework that will regulate the affairs of seasonal workers. These laws give support to mothers, families and children to make Serbia more numerous. This law also establishes international co-operation between the government, i.e. the competent ministry and other countries in order to increase the social, health and pension insurance of our workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40661	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40662	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected viewers, in Serbia when someone wants to do something good, should not expect those of the alliance to call it a thief, a fraud, a cheater, a peljesanovic, to remove a stone from the road. In Serbia, if you want me to do something good, you can only expect them to put an even bigger rock on your way. Here we heard about the memorials what all parties of the former regime had released. I'll try to list the main things they've released. Agrobank Development Bank of Vojvodina, freed her from money. Elezovic would fill his wallet like that, when he closed his wallet, they remembered what they had released, but they forgot to explain to us which side of the counter they robbed the bank. When they robbed her, they did it on the inside. And they're freedom fighters, they freed citizens of the entire social property that was supposed to belong to all citizens. They need to build a monument. They freed the Poppins. I remember a beautiful Njanja and her older friend, when they got into the day of the election, so rebellious at the early dawn, at Popince in front of the polling station, to free Poppins. I'm sorry the Minister isn't here. 300 young men in Poppins were looking forward to that freedom. In the center of the village stands a crazy rock and everyone prayed that beautiful Njanja would stand on that crazy rock accompanied by her mother, so that one of them would marry, start a family, have children, etc. But behold, miracles, beautiful Njanja and her older friend mother refused to marry Njanja. Njanja gave an interview, attacked the SNS and the ruling coalition, and left newly released Poppins and left 300 single boys in mourning. Now that I'm saying that you need to be married, that you need to prevent the white plague, especially in the country, then they all rebel and say -- look, he hates this, he hates this, this Serbian ruling coalition wants to help someone start a marriage in the country. I don't think anyone hates us in the country. I think the white plague is the worst ethnic cleansing and the most efficient, and that aggression by cradles is the most successful aggression and we as a people, especially us who belong to the majority people, we need to know that. So I support all measures, no matter how successful they are at this goal, just don't clone these, especially Mr. Thief. As for the memory stuff and these liberators, I have to show you something, because that's where we can always fool ourselves. This, Mr. Martinovic, is the British team in 1938, which is saluting Hitler. In 1938. Small ones have revised their history and their role, especially in the Balkans. But I'm not here to forget. It's not on my mind to let any monument rise to these British heroes, who volunteered to donate Serbian blood mostly and other people's blood. But with regard to fascism, don't let this happen, and I'm asking the cameras to show it, if they want to, of course, avoid it, they probably have some kind of oral agreement, as it is, a contract. Now, look when someone who's supposed to be a liberator, when someone in Belgrade is saluting, and this person looks like that Helga colleague, Otto herr Flick from that fascism show. Here, take a look. This is a pure Nazi greeting or greeting for the housekeeper ready. It is likely to go with that statement that the Croatian Storm was a humanitarian action and a legitimate action. Probably that greeting goes with this. But don't let it happen to us that those liberators and these liberators who freed Rome, when there was an ambassador, and to remember, Rome is not Crime. I don't know if she's at Vuk Jeremic's, probably is. Is Vuk Jeremic against the EU or has Mrs Sanda now become an EU fan? Something's wrong with that. But speaking of wages, I welcome that social cases don't lose social assistance when they come to be seasonal labour, because they've been avoiding it so far. I was more of a Croatian model, this is Hungarian, but I have to say hello to some solutions, and one is a low tax rate. I certainly welcome these two things, of course, the intensity to reach the seasonal labour force, because the grain of effort is born, and the grapes in the torture are higher. So, without that trouble at the proper time in a few days, if you don't do it, you have a big problem. Sometimes there is not even enough labour force, and even that importing seasonal labour force is welcome, so that the fruits are harvested and that they do not rot, etc. Let me remind you that there is a harvest in Srem, where the grain lay down and every day it rains and there is a danger that it will totally fail. If we don't hire seasonal combiners, we're in trouble. But I'm asking you, where did Wolf Jeremic go? That's our most famous extremist. He, like this, ransacked in Hong Kong, was a dozen times, found some bosses there, looked up, and must have been picking that -- I was picking out gold apples. It was probably the golden apples he was picking, when he managed to collect $7.5 million in the grant and say that he earned it in a reward through consulting services, and I think it was money laundering. It is a shame that only the American state is fighting against it, and as initiators of its activities, to remind you that a year and a half ago, long before the presidential elections, I asked us a question about the transfer of $1.335,000 to his consulting agency and that I asked $1.449,000 for the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development. They said it wasn't true. The finance ministry asked Hong Koi and America for information, and this resulted in a later famous action when his sponsors, or bosses, who were tipping and picking gold apples, fell into the hands of the American police. I think it's high time that money laundering was tested from the inside, a team before editors of Dnevnika Natashi Jeremic paid $650,000 on the daily name of the daily newspaper in Siti Bank. I think it's a huge minus unless our country helps the investigating authorities in the U.S. to investigate it. In the end, let me tell you, as far as the seasonal labour force is concerned, we've heard a lot of people here talking about work, effort, sweat, torture, and none of them really bothered, but in collaboration with some strange foreign services. I think it's time they knew, and I remind them a thousand times that this activity isn't right, that the pronunciation isn't right, that the conflict between us with ourselves, that's where we're certainly losing ourselves. Success is sometimes difficult, a thin branch. When you pick sweet fruits, you have to climb up. You can't get the sweet fruits and the success of getting the elevator, nor can you get the ladder with your hands in your pockets. We must spend time in labor, labor, sweat, plowing, scraping, and not under a umbrella in Hawaii and the Maldives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-22-0.u40663	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. We're working on Monday at 10.00 hours. [[The session was suspended at 18.55 hours]]
