ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when determining the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I address the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic. After information that the government is considering some reciprocal measures to implement Croatia after this humiliating Croatian act prohibiting Defence Minister Alexander Vulin from entering the country. I have a specific suggestion that's best suited to this situation. I suggest Prime Minister Ana Brnabic that the government of the Republic of Serbia recognises the government of Republika Srpska in exile. It has been 23 years since Republika Srpska's occupation, which has not been an internationally recognised state, but has been a state in fact, as the International Court of Justice finds, and is occupied by an American operation involving the perpetrators on the ground. More than 200,000 Serbs were expelled from the western parts of Republika Srpska and several thousand beastly killed, women, children, elderly. Serbia must not sit and wait and act as if nothing has happened. Serbia must not allow any moment for anyone to think that we have come to terms with Republika Srpska's occupation. Republika Srpska Krajina must be freed eventually. The government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in exile was formed about 12, 13 years ago, successfully functioning, performing many jobs, and the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. However, all regimes that have been exchanged to this day suppress any informational activity of the media regarding reporting on the activities of the Republika Srpska government in exile. That's why today is the most logical, normal, the most unexpected and the best move, the recognition of the government. There is an additional reason, the Republic of Croatia has recognised Kosovo's independence among the first. Then a decision was yet to be made on the recognition of Republika Srpska and its government in exile. Why did it go over that? If we can't hit the nose with great forces, and we can temporarily establish these artificial state-class forces. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope the Government of the Republic of Serbia will think twice and eventually accept my suggestion. I also have a second question to the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic, why he tolerates after Ivica Dacic, the foreign minister said that Serbia will consider in which European countries to abolish their diplomatic presidencys, because they are not functional, produce no effect, and that they should be opened in other friendly Asian, African, Latin-American states. Among them in Vietnam, and Vietnam has 100 million inhabitants, now Vietnam is a great economic power, and our people Vietnam and the Vietnamese have grown close to the heart, most of our generations who were the eyewitnesses of the great Vietnamese Liberation Epoeia, a long war for independence in which millions of people died. And there are countries that are literally artificial, like Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia. It would be stupid to set up embassies there, and their independence can be abolished tomorrow. It's a historic incident that they've even been declared independent states. Isn't that so Lassani?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33497	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33498	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is exactly two years from the night the buildings on Herzegovica Street were destroyed, and to this day we have no answer, no answer, no answer, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I ask the question to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, I ask the question of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who took down and on whose orders two years ago the facilities in downtown Belgrade on Hercegovina Street? Who illegally bound the citizens who were in that location at that time? Who in the police refused to act on the reports of some citizens who were able to call the police and ask for help because some citizens were tied up during the night, deprived of justice illegally? Who is responsible and which institutions will be held accountable because, during that night in the Republic of Serbia, the state with organised crime has grown, the rule of law ceases to apply, but the law of stronger, more powerful and political laws of those who rule Serbia today? So these are issues and this is the beginning and end of each assessment of one government and the way one government manages the state. So until today, we haven't been able to figure out who the guys in the phantoms were. We haven't been able to figure out which firm it was that crashed it in Belgrade by the badgers. Well, imagine that one of you kids got there during the night and someone handcuffed him and put a phantom on his head and put it aside, God forbid. Would you react then, perhaps? The president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, said on June 8th last year that a complete idiot from the top of Belgrade's government stands behind the destruction of buildings in Savala. However, to this day, although he said it would be announced very quickly, we did not know who these complete idiots were, nor was anyone sanctioned, nor was anyone removed and held political responsibility, and whom the president of his party and today's President of the Republic accused of participating in the destruction of these facilities, whose construction, practically, "Bood on water" the President of the Republic and how he supports it. We even have information now that some complete idiots from the top of Belgrade's government will either continue to manage Belgrade, which will be their reward for a well-doing work, possibly, of lawless destruction during the night, or some may be ministers in the government, since there is obviously no more competent in corruption than Cynthia Malo to deal with the work of the finance minister and to give him that opportunity in this government of yours and this authority. So, what is the state of the rule of law, media freedom, law enforcement, institutions in Serbia, the European Commission report, which you selectively represent to citizens, because you cannot tell the truth. If you look at the report, behind every sentence that something has been done is "but", as well as in the area of the rule of law, and in the field of fighting crime and corruption, which has been marked as a very risky situation in the Republic of Serbia, because corruption and crime in Serbia are growing rather than shrinking, in terms of media freedoms and the creation of institutions. By what you did two years ago, by destroying objects in Savamala, you collapsed and you have put an end to the existence of institutions in the Republic of Serbia. So if institutions in one legal state are unable to detect employers and perpetrators who destroyed buildings in Hercegovina Street during the night, the state has no institutions, there is no rule of law in that country. It is a country that is privatised by a group of people who allow themselves to play with the state, play with their citizens and be afraid and intimidated by what can be expected of such a government tomorrow. Laws don't apply equally to everyone. Some people see it through their fingers, some laws apply it, and it's not a state. I'm asking a question, and I'm looking for an answer to this, to the two-year-old destruction of objects in Savala.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33499	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33500	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I would like to refer my first question to the president of the National Assembly. A recent European Commission report on Serbia's progress in European integration, under the democracy section, in the work on parliament's work, noted: transparency, inclusiveness, the quality of the legislative process and the effectiveness of the control of the executive government in the Serbian parliament should be improved, and the inter-party dialogue in this house should be improved. It is also noted that the role of independent regulatory bodies in this Parliament should be fully accepted and supported and it has been established that no independent regulatory body report has been discussed in the tide for three years. It has been reported that the use of emergency procedures, the truth of will, has been reduced from 65% to 44%, but remains too often. It is also opposed to Parliament's effectiveness in reviewing the laws passed and it has been stated that Parliament's effectiveness in this regard is limited by the intentional actions of the ruling coalition to which the President of the National Assembly belongs. Some of the recommendations set out are the adoption of the annual work plan and codes of conduct of MPs, so I ask the President of Parliament to comment on these European Commission remarks and to answer whether we will soon have an improvement of parliamentary practice in the spirit of these European recommendations. The second question is to refer to the Minister of Agriculture. I am interested in the data on which resolutions are issued for 2017 and the first quarter of 2018, since it seems that the ownership records of agricultural land are not up-to-date, so farmers come to water companies to invest in appeal solutions, because their tax is also calculated for a country that is no longer owned by them? This leads to a great dissatisfaction of farmers, who have to take time to reach water companies, spend a few hours waiting in line to make complaints, pay parking for all that lost time and, basically, lose all day at the time of spring sowing. The third question is referred to by the Minister of Culture and Information. I'm interested in whether he intends to resign after yesterday's suspension of his activities on a media strategy? At a meeting of the National Convention in the EU, a representative of the ministry presented the content of the media strategy, to report immediately after that from the Office of the President of the Republic and to announce that, in agreement with the president and prime minister, the media strategy is back to square one. I am interested in whether the Minister of Culture and Information feels responsible for allowing such an important strategic document in the press and media sphere to be created without the participation of relevant news and media associations. I would like to ask the fourth question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry. Article 80. The law on public undertakings in paragraph 5 is prescribed that public competitions for the selection of directors, issued under the provisions of this law, must be terminated no later than one year after the date of entry into force of this law. The law came into force on 4 March 2016 and it has been more than a year since the legal deadline for the selection of all directors of public enterprises through a public competition, and the Serbian government has appointed only a quarter of the directors. Of 37, nine of them. The problem is that the directors of our public enterprises have been party personnel for years. These companies are doing bad business, making losses, taking loans for which the Assembly provides guarantees. During the assembly debate, ministers hear assurances about these guarantees that they serve only to obtain favourable interest rates and that there is no way that they will be activated, and later, by taking into account the implementation of the budget, we can see that in the period from 2012, in the years 2017, therefore, in the last six years, we have had over a billion euros in expenditure on payment on the basis of activated guarantees to public enterprises for loans that they were unable to repay. The explosion and trend of increasing these guarantees and their activation actually began in 2013, when the amount of guarantees paid was already doubled compared to 2012. The culmination was in 2016, when it was paid as much as ten times as in 2012. Over 331m euros were paid on the basis of activated guarantees for public enterprises that were unable to repay their loans. My question for the Prime Minister and Minister of Economy is to deliver information on when and in what deadlines and in which public enterprises will be called competitions for all those directors who have not yet done so? I am particularly interested in RTB Bor, the nuclear facilities of Serbia, Serbia and the EPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33501	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33502	I thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to ask the Ministry of Health. In particular, the question is about our agricultural producers. Just for all of us to repeat that a lot of our agricultural producers are paying through the PIO fund to themselves health insurance and families and families involved in agriculture. It doesn't matter if it's livestock, cattle, whether it's warfare, vegetables or some other branch in agriculture. This family that pays for one or two of them health insurance through agriculture, it comes into the situation that now that we are witnessing that a large number of people have severe diseases, and this particularly affects our farmers living in the country, who are working and, normally, when such an unwanted disease occurs, some malignancy or some other serious illness I wanted to ask the Ministry of Health whether there is a possibility that people who are insured through agricultural insurance, who pay insurance through agriculture, in case they get sick of some malignant disease or some serious illness, and therefore cannot be in a position to do their agricultural work, and when they can't do their agricultural work, they can't even pay those 110 thousand dinars that they need to pay for the Health Fund to be treated. Is there any possibility that through a fund within the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, social policy, another organisation, there could be a fund or there could be a fund that would be able to provide treatment for those agricultural producers who paid and paid through agriculture pensions, or health insurance, and when they were ill, when they couldn't do so, to pay them out of some funds for that year, that these people could be treated and could be cured? Of course, we are witnessing that when you start treatment at the right time and malignant diseases are treatable. It was my question and my desire that in the next period, if it is not possible right now, to provide this special fund for our agricultural producers who pay pension insurance and health insurance through agriculture so that, when they are sick or one of their household members, they can be provided with the funds, to pay them that amount of 100,000 or 110,000 dinars per year so that they can be treated. That was one question. I'm sure we'll have the opportunity, because we're also witnessing that a large number of landowners, when someone from the landship turns out to be unable to work, and that land is very hard to operate, because we know the conditions when people deal with livestock, when they do some other agricultural work. The question is really in place and I am sure that the Ministry of Health will find the possibility through the PIO Fund or some other state organisation to find a possibility for these people and provide a special fund that will be able to provide them with adequate conditions to be treated and to be cured tomorrow. Another issue is about this kind of vision, since I come from a small municipality, and in southeast Serbia has a large number of such municipalities and related to the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health "Batu" – will they have opportunities, since we know that small municipalities and small homes of health do not have the right to emergency care, can two local self-governments, which are not, either, or the other, the right to emergency assistance, can they join their homes of health and that at least provide teams through the Health Ministry programme to have the right to emergency assistance? We are witnessing that all people, including us in Srlig, and in Književec, and in the White Palanca, and in Sokobanja, Babušnica, Gajina Han, all of these people should be entitled to emergency assistance and that we all work together and that the Ministry together with the Institute of Public Health "Batut" can provide that opportunity for these small municipalities to have the right to emergency assistance and that at the right time they can reach every household and that they can save their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33503	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33504	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, using my parliamentary right, I refer the first question to the Ministry of Agriculture – can the state help the agricultural producer and guarantee him the purchase price of the agricultural product? Are we finally going to get system solutions for weather and irrigation systems? When it comes to anti-urban protection, how long did it take to digitize anti-urban protection? The fourth question from the Ministry of Agriculture is – subsidies for small agricultural producers. Here's why I'm asking questions to this government. We are fully aware of the problems the government faces and that as a responsible ministry there must be a strategy and set of measures. My client is a host party. My party supports the work of this government and we have supported all the laws that this resolute ministry is coming to, but I have a commitment to the Serbian peasant. When I say farmer, I mean farmer. Since I come from a municipality for which agriculture represents a vessel cook, should I ask a question, when will the state clearly and loudly come up with a minimum of five or three years guaranteed price of buying agricultural products, raspberries, blackberries, grapes, plums, but also war products? A farmer in that period needs to decide what he will produce and whether it is worth it, but also whether he can cover the costs of agricultural products. To provide safety to the agricultural producer, and here, I'll tell you an example from my neighborhood, from the first generation, say raspberries, to the late breeding of raspberries, there are ten ransom prices. Tom, you'll agree, we have to get in the way. This year, she shook the Serbian peasant's news of a very low, enormously low price of raspberries. The price of the agricultural product must be guaranteed. Let's say I give an example, we're importing onions from China, and in my sub-coastal area there's onion and potato production, where the agricultural producer has nowhere to place it. The quantity produced by the agricultural producer can cover nearly a third of Serbia's needs. The third thing that is very important is subsidies for small farmers. Subsidies to these competitions, especially when it comes to the purchase of machinery, are very strict and strict rules, so that a small number of agricultural producers, especially when it comes to the area from which I come, are not able to obtain these subsidies. I would like to refer the second question to the Ministry of Culture and Information. Whether the Ministry of Culture and Information will support an initiative to protect the fields, a unique cultural heritage in Serbia. The Poles will thus become new rappers on the tourist map not only Župe, but also Serbia, with the aim of protecting, restoring, presenting a moving and immovable cultural heritage, putting heritage into active use according to the original purpose, to be actively involved in the tourist offer and to present agricultural production in specific conditions of the Župska poljena. The parish fields are a treasure that disappears. The Zupa Museum's initiative, at the recommendation of both ministries, and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Culture and Information, as well as the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, also supported local self-government, supported all NGOs, but without the support of the restoring ministries will not be able to preserve this cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33505	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33506	Thank you. I join the question of fellow Alexic, so I ask the services to quote as if I have asked that question, and I expect an answer for Savamala, but I would also be happy to join what a colleague from the JS has just asked, but it doesn't matter, she will be answered by the Ministry of Agriculture, because it is an important thing, it is a big problem. I was even going to bring it here in time, but there was a lot of rock and stuff, so I wouldn't be charged with some indiscretion, a bean tattoo made in China. So, a bean tattoo from China, apropo of what we heard us import the largest onions from China and other agricultural products that Serbia could of course produce for itself and export. My question first goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been mostly neatly answering these questions, and mostly very positively in terms of me, and I would say normally, stately and patrioticly, only we have a dilemma of whether such responses and such opinions are always adequately transmitted and manifested in official state policy. Either way, I am asking for an answer and clarification from the foreign ministry for this Sofia EU summit and partner from the Western Balkans, or candidate for membership, in which, in this summit, a great storm has been raised in the public, even less in Serbia, and more in the EU and Brussels countries, due to the firm and principled attitude of Spanish Prime Minister Marijan Rahoi, who has made it clear that he does not want to appear in the same place, especially that his signature appears in the same place and in the same rank, in the same level with the signature of the so-called leader. Kosovo, therefore, is a clear and principled position that Spain confirms, of course, protects its interests, but at the same time very positively sets up and sets an example for our diplomacy and our Serbian politics as to how it should be set when it comes to international participation, so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. Unfortunately, in practice and in the conduct of our political actors and officials I do not see or most often do not see that kind of principle, determination and firmness that Spanish Prime Minister Marijano Rahoj... I want this way, and I think that the state should officially express its gratitude to him and, of course, to the Kingdom of Spain, his state and his government. So my question is, does the Serbian Government, or the Foreign Ministry, coordinate its activities with the Spanish government, Mr Rahoi, in light of its preparation for this Sofia summit? Because, as things stand now, it's good and great that Spain has such an attitude and Mr. Rahoj has such an attitude, but I don't think it's good and it's not right, and it's not normal for Spain to be stronger and more principled than Serbia and Belgrade. I get the impression that in some circles in Belgrade, they're almost uncomfortable, almost as if they're wrong, as if they're ashamed, that they're embarrassed that Spain is holding on so tight about the participation and representation of so-called. The Republic of Kosovo at that summit. The second question goes to the office for Kosovo and Metohija and concerns disturbing news, not so much for us here in the rest of Serbia, but for people living in the north of KIM, about the process of re-registering tables from Serbian license plates to so-called. Kosovo license plates, which all together, I have here and a drawing, i.e. I have a photograph, which also have a coat of arms. The Republic of Kosovo, but worse still, in order to transfer the vehicle to these registration plates, and in accordance with that 2011 agreement, and confirmed from 2016, means, in accordance with this agreement, that the tables could be replaced, it is necessary to have a personal map and citizenship of the Republic of Kosovo. So, what can the office say about this? Can it calm the citizens, since we have heard more than once from that address that it is false news, if they can continue Serbian citizens from northern KiM to use the license plates they have used so far? But this has now been announced by the deputy interior minister of Pristina, who, by the way, is a Serb and a member of the Serb list. So, in this sense, I ask the KIM Office for an explanation of what is going on and is it really mandatory to reregister Serbian plates on Kosovo, which includes changing all documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33507	The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33508	Thank you. The issue is for the minister of education, and concerning the incident that took place last weekend in a number of schools in Serbia, more specifically in Prijepolje, Leban, Jagodina, Pojarevac, LJig, Mali Zvornik, Obrenovac, Alibunar, Kragujevac, but also in other places. Namely, what happened? During last weekend, the Ministry of Education organised mandatory training for teachers and teachers, since the plan and programme for the first and fifth classes and teachers and teachers had an obligation to attend the training without any financial compensation. The ministry made sure they had a meal. What's wrong, and what happened, is that the meal arrived in the form of a sandwich by mail on Saturday and Sunday and was sent on Friday. So teachers were trained in these mentioned places for lunch Saturday and Sunday served sandwiches that were sent by mail on Friday and traveled 24 to 48 hours before they reached the teachers. How did this unpleasant event happen? That's my basic question for the Minister of Education. Obviously, we also have some kind of system failure. What I've unofficially managed to find out is that the Ministry of Education is the money for these meals, i.e. for the organisation of full training, and thus for meals under these trainings, the Institute for the Advancement of Education and Education passed on to the Faculty of Teachers, and then it happened that the teaching school entrusted this job to the private company Mak Art from Belgrade during training. Otherwise, this company is registered as an Internet bookstore and has nothing to do with food production and making sandwiches, at least when it comes to the official description of its activity. This company packed sandwiches on Friday, falsely marked them as promo material and sent them to Prepolje, Lebanese, Jagodina, Pogorjevac, LJig, Mali Zvornik, Obrenovac, Alibunar and Kragujevac. I would ask the minister of education to examine why a Belgrade firm is entrusted to feed teachers across Serbia, instead of sending this money to schools, so teachers get fresh sandwiches bought that day. We think in DJ, and this reminds us of what we call a buraser economy. This looks like setting up a business for a private company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33509	The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33510	Thank you. My first question was raised by yesterday's session of the National Convention on the EU, which was held yesterday in this building and whose topic was a recent report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress. The first panel was also attended by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and then repeatedly reiterated that the government has no capacity to respond to the challenges it faces. If that is true, then the question is why is the announced reshuffle of the government being delayed, especially given that the conflicting statements of the ministers testify daily that the government is not really a team and that as such it cannot be seriously devoted to solving the accumulated problems. The best assessment of our progress towards the EU is the fact that since January 2014, when negotiations with the EU started, only 12 chapters have been opened so far and two have been provisionally closed. If negotiations continue at this pace, not that we cannot become a member in 2025, but most likely by then we will not open all chapters without talking about the two-year period needed to reach an accession agreement with all Member States. In such a situation, it is no wonder yesterday's prime minister's attempt to reciprocate the importance and opportunities of accession in 2025, which the EU itself has given itself, has repeatedly highlighted the primary importance of accepting European values. However, the question arises whether these European values include both the absence or the milk and the dishonest condemnation, for example, the attacks on a national MP in the middle of this hall or the desecration of the national features of an EU member in this House? They're just the freshest examples. The Prime Minister also said that it is against shortcuts when it comes to EU membership. However, if the government's strategic goal is to join the EU, then it should seek to join the EU as soon as possible. Because of this, it seems that the path this government has chosen to go to the EU is a broad bypass that seems to lead across Moscow. Prime Minister Brnabic also said the assessments presented in Serbia's progress report do not matter how important the recommendations contained are. When the grades are looked at, it is no wonder the Prime Minister left yesterday's panel early and thus avoided answering the question and hearing criticism from members of the Convention. At the same time, she had time to hold a press conference right after leaving the meeting. Some of the assessments contained in the report are as follows: the ruling majority prevents the fundamental role of parliament - the examination of proposed laws, strong pressure on the judiciary, widespread corruption, growing concern over the media situation, bringing independent bodies to decor, politicisation of state administration, etc. If we add to this recently published reports by Friedom House, one of the top authorities in the area of monitoring democracy in the world, which say the state of democracy in Serbia has deteriorated for the fourth year in a row, it is clear why the Prime Minister is avoiding genuine dialogue on all these topics. Even the economic results most often praised by the authorities are not so impressive, which is witnessed by a significant growth in the external trade deficit during this year, as well as by the poor competitiveness of our economy. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister - what policy will the Government apply, when and within what time to meet the recommendations in the progress report? I'd like to refer the second question to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. The behaviour of Ambassadors to Paris Rajko Ristic again has led to the first stage in our diplomacy, and therefore I have to ask the question again - when a new law on foreign affairs, which was announced nearly five years ago, will finally come into the assembly procedure. I will remind you that the same ambassador is only an example of one bad practice and that he is imposed on France despite the fact that this country has made it clear that he is not desirable, by stalling with the granting of agremants. The case of Ambassador Ristic is just the tip of the icy hill of inadequate staff behaviour at the foreign ministry. The organisation of inappropriate events at the embassy and clashes with the director of the Cultural Centre in Paris, which honor Ambassador Ristic, are only some of the reasons for his shift. I ask the question - is it true that Ambassador Ristic opened an office in Paris to mediate on behalf of his wife, and how much is he paid, who pays his annual membership fee in one of the most exclusive business clubs in Paris, as well as what benefit does our country have in that membership? Another example of the non-professional behaviour of the Ministry is the unauthorized use of the multiple award-winning documentary film "Miroslav's Gospel" last year in Madrid, and the celebration of Statehood Day and the latter denial of the act by the Ministry, which is why the state, i.e. the citizens, will probably have to pay big damages to the author. A question for the Prime Minister and Finance Minister -- when will the demagogue low-level travel logs be abolished, which not only violates our country's reputation, but which, as a country, often exposes us to ridicule? On the other hand, we have a recent DRI report saying that 735 billion dinars, about six billion euros, were not spent in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33511	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33512	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow the work of the National Assembly, God helps all. My questions today are directed towards the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, and they concern three social categories of the population in Serbia who are really seriously threatened under, not only this one, but also the previous authorities, because their question is simply not resolved. I would like to have a very precise, clear and quick answer - does this government intend to address these three extremely important issues in this current 2018? The first question is the status of war veterans, families of the dead and disabled wars in the country wars from 1991 to 1999. So it's amazing that we're the only country in the region that hasn't solved the status of its war veterans and that those who in their time were willing to give their lives for this country so that we could live in peace today have not been given adequate privileges or any legal treatment by their own country for which they were willing to give their lives. So, as of 1999, the next year, it will be 20 years since the end of the war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, and no authority has been able to pass a serious law that would resolve and treat the issue of war veterans, families of the dead and disabled wars at all. The second question, and how painful for more than 100,000 workers in Serbia, who have lost their jobs in robbery privatisations, is when will they be paid back for back wages, severances that have not been paid or associated work experience that is still unrelated to them? So it's more than 100,000 workers in Serbia. Count on how many people are then together with their families who are somehow victims of transition, victims of a robbery privatisation for which, by the way, no one has answered until today's Serbian laws. Here I am talking about the responsibility of all authorities from 5 October 2000 until today who have been responsible for robbery privatisations or for not carrying out criminal responsibility for all those who robbed this people and the state in the previous 20 years. So, when will the workers, who have lost their income, no internships, no severances, finally get the opportunity to pay them off? I draw attention, of course, to Mr Seselj, that he has no reason to interfere with the work of other MPs who did not interfere with his asking parliamentary questions, but it is a question of culture and education, and I would not go further into it. What's the third category I'm talking about here and whose problems I want to point out to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is over 20,000 families that have some kind of debt slavery to banks, because they have loans indexed in Swiss francs. It is amazing, dear, esteemed colleagues, that we are the only 13 countries in Europe and the world where loans have ever been issued in Swiss francs without solving the problem of their citizens who have been robbed by these harmful and thieving loans. We're the only country that hasn't solved the problem of its citizens. We put them at risk, we didn't give them any legal help, what's waiting for them with those risky loans. When these unfair, thieving loans are found to be such in all courts in Europe, we are not the only ones who have found that these are thieving and pestilence loans and have not given our citizens a chance to get out of this kind of debt slavery. Look, the bank is secured by mortgages, secured by state guarantee from the National Credit Insurance Corporation. What is the security of banking clients that the bank robs on fees, commissions, on all kinds of these vermin and theft loans? Does this mean that banks are protected white bears in this country, that they can rob people and businesses without anyone being able to trace them and get in their way? The responsibility, of course, is primarily at the National Bank of Serbia, which should control the work of business banks. So, questions for the Supreme Court are, in the end, the following – when will the position on illegally indexed loans be taken, on the effective refund of money for unilaterally modified interest, on the effective refund of money for processing costs and, of course, on the illegal payment of compensation? So when will the problem of families that have loans indexed in Swiss francs be solved?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33513	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33514	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, I ask the question, come on, it can be said to all of us, but above all, the Presidents of the Assembly – when will we finally approach the amendments of the Rules of Procedure, because this Rules of Procedure, existing one, have shown all its weaknesses so far? Some can only count, and they can count for an hour. He allows unidentified personalities and persons to sit in this room when we open the session. He allows many aspects of obstruction of the work of the Assembly at sessions. I'm just going to say one example that in the last year, I mean, it's more eclatantly expressed, when we lose one working day when we determine the agenda. So let's figure out how much one working day of the Assembly costs, and then we'll see, when we add up in a year, how much we take from the citizens that way. Many other things exist, and I would not list, nor go into having a discussion about it now, but I think there are all the reasons for the urgent procedure to approach the amendments and additions or to draw up a new Rules of Procedure on the work of this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33515	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33516	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, chairman, respected citizens, I ask the question of Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, I question all the institutions of this country, and I ask the question to all of us who are in the public business. According to data, unfortunately, in 2018 20 women lost their lives in domestic violence, and these are terrible things, and only in four months. In 2010, that number was, too, many, many, one life if lost in domestic violence, but 18 women lost their lives in 12 months 2010, I'm not dragging here, of course, any political parallel, this has nothing to do with politics, these are extremely important topics, life issues, and in this year, in January, February, March and April 20 women lost their lives. I hope that no person will lose his life for the rest of his life, especially in domestic violence. We have to ask ourselves, all of us who create a public opinion and who do public work, especially here, about the media who have committed violence against their husband in the morning programmes, during the afternoon shows, let that violence justify it. There is no excuse for violence, no matter what the reason, no matter who committed it. I think that as a society in general, we need to answer these terribly important questions, especially governments and institutions that deal with these things. The second question is asked by the president of the Mayi Gojkovic Assembly – in which way he will respond to the violence that had happened before, and you, Mr Arsic, have pretended not to hear, and to the speech of hatred that the shameful radicals have spoken by passing past the Democratic Party club, the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33517	I give you a warning, Mr. Radojic. Keep going. I'll explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33518	What's the warning? Thank you. Dear citizens, let's see, and you'll hear what the gentlemen of the SRS have said again to our colleague earlier, and we have evidence. We demand footage from the cameras, at this point there are a dozen cameras here, as well as at any possible moment in the O.R., when our colleague, who stayed alone for a moment, bravely came to her, surrounded her and wrote her the ugliest curses on her Rules of Procedure and her documents. We demand surveillance footage of the cameras to see who did this and demand punishment for the perpetrators. The third question is also asked by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Local Self-Government – we hear that the SNS suggests that by the end of the year, it will cross with all its personnel who are not doing their job in a safest way or who have been embezzled in crime, and thank God for them, and unfortunately by the state, there are enough, what will the SNS and the prosecution do with Milan Lukic, head of SNS in Paracino, a SNS committee member in Paracino, who has been sentenced to three months in prison, one year probation, and I have a verdict here for bribes of 1.6 million dinars? Will that frame also be removed from performing public functions? Finally, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of State Administration, Mr Ruzic. Your mouth is full of depoliticality when you go to meetings outside of Serbia, your mouth is depolitic, and I ask you to explain this order to the employees of the city administration in Nis who have an obligation to wait tomorrow for the President of the Republic. We from the Democratic Party don't mind if they take a vacation, a day off and in their spare time they can do whatever they want, but at a working time when the job suffers, when the institutions are humiliated by all the employees of the city administration, the city's companies in Nis have been ordered to wait tomorrow for the president of Serbia. I think it's humiliating for the Republic of Serbia, too, humiliating for those employees. I don't think that's doing any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33519	Do any of the other authorised representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Radoslav Milojičić: An explanation for the reminder. ) Explanation for warning? You'll get it. I'll tell you right away. You called the members of a political party a disgraceful one. Enough. (Radoslav Milojic: I said – shameful. And you should be ashamed not to react. ) The word has a folk MP Ivana Dinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33520	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, today I would like to request a notice from the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. In the last year, the government has taken a number of popular measures, and I particularly want to commend the cabinet of Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic in activities related to strengthening the population policy measures, i.e. financial support to families with children, which is one of the most important activities. One measure of support is certainly also a child's supplement. In this regard, I would like to ask the following question – respecting the country's increased concern for the family, especially given the need to conduct an active population policy, I would like to pay attention to the child's allowance as one of the incentive measures. However, I do believe that a child's supplement should not only be a social measure, but rather a stimulating population measure, as is a parental supplement. This time, I would refer to children's supplements received by single parents. The truth is, there's a slight difference between children's supplements received by children in the family with single parents and children from complete families, but we still don't think that's enough. Namely, it is the height of a child’s allowance for single parents, foster parents, foster parents, and parents with special needs. According to the latest data, the census for complete families is 8,665 dinars, and for single parents 10,398 dinars. The amount of a regular child’s allowance is 2,788 dinars, and the increased one belonging to single parents, guardians and parents of children with special needs, or developmental disturbances is only 3,625 dinars. We think that censorships, especially for single parents, are very low, because we know that one parent tends to bear all the costs of care, training, education, even the development of his child. We know that if a child has another parent, he usually doesn't pay child support, with many hiding their real social status. I want this opportunity, regardless of what we demand to answer the question and take action on these issues, to commend the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy for its efforts to strengthen the social function of the state in a segment relating to the social protection of the socially endangered categories of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33521	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33522	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to ask the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice about the 2010 scandalous decision on the lease of a business space for the needs of the preschool institution "Milica" in the territory of Altina. Last time I asked the question – did it come to light for 642 million 333 thousand 856 dinars and 52 coins that disappeared during the reconstruction of the Boulevar King Alexander 2010 and what about 65 positions that were found not well done, which led Ivana Vuletic, director of the City Roads Directorate, refused to accept Bulevar King Alexander's responsibility for maintenance? This time I ask the question – did this 2010 lease become the subject of the investigation and how long did the investigation take place? Both of these jobs happened in 2010. It seems that in 2010, it was quite inspiring, because only for those two contracts, nearly a billion dinars disappeared for those two signatures from the city register. These strange and cloudy actions took place during Belgrade's oligarch and the owner of the city's budget, and the current self-proclaimed corporate manager of an unparliamentary and semi-parliamentary political organisation. I mean, in particular, Dragan Gilas. Let's go back to the damage that Dragan Gilas has done by signing that contract on the lease of business space. In 2008, the Zemun municipality in the village of Altina started building a garden area of 800 square meters, with the capacity of 200 children. However, there was a lack of money and an object, even though it was placed under the roof, could not be brought in for purpose. It took about 300,000 euros to complete the facility and the municipality of Zemun addressed the city of Belgrade to complete the investment, took the facility into its jurisdiction and brought it in for purposes. But Dragan Gilas, at that point in his role and in the manner of quasi managers and economic maga, decides not to give those 300,000 euros, but rather to buy a business space just 110m away from the municipality's kindergarten that started the Zemun municipality to build. The price of the lease is a fantastic thing that Serbian citizens need to know, the price of leases under Article 5 of the contract is intended to be in the first year of 29.627 euros and 85 cents, and from the second to the tenth year there should be no less fantastic 23.710 euros. So, one average employee needs to work for about five to six years to just earn one month's rent to rent that facility. In the first 12 months of 29.627 euros plus, and this is now interesting, the next 108 months with 23.710 euros, when we multiply it and add it up in the end we get a fantastic figure of 2,916,000 and 20 euro cents. So somewhere around 3,000,000 without VAT, the VAT comes in over three and a half million. After the deadline of 10 years, as long as the facility is scheduled to be leased, the facility returns to the investor, or owner, the city of Belgrade will be left without an object, and the City of Belgrade, or the Belgrade City budget, will be easier for more than 300m dinars and some million euros, means somewhere around threem euros. Interestingly, if we had invested those 300,000 euros to complete the facility, the city of Belgrade would have an object in its possession today, Altina would have a lastingly resolved issue for 200 minorities and only 55,000 euros would be saved from the first rent. Otherwise, the prices of completed buildings in suburban settlements, such as Altina, per square metre cannot exceed 500 euros, should be 600 euros, to honor Dragan Gilas 100 euros, to ease his soul. As a result, Dragan Gilas of the threem euros he paid for the lease of this business space could have built 5,000 square meters, i.e. five kindergartens per 1,000 square meters to five locations in five suburban municipalities. There is another uncertainty, and this is because the municipality of Zemun has granted permission to build a kindergarten in the village of Altina, meaning these purposes, no other investor could have obtained a permit to build a building with the same purpose. The question arises – who paid for the repurpose of the facility and who was carrying the costs of the adaptation? Is the clause set out in Article 7 used so that the adaptation can be performed by the tenant with the permission of the tenant? Now the question arises – was Dragan Gilas there naive? No, Dragan Gilas wasn't naive. Was Dragan Gilas deceived? No, Dragan Gilas wasn't cheated, he was the one who always cheated. Was Dragan Gilas stupid and didn't know what he was doing? No, he knows exactly what he's doing, and he's always worked for his own good. Whatever he was doing or any of what I said is true, nothing can free him of responsibility, because he was as mayor at that time criminally and materially responsible for the execution of the Belgrade city budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33523	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to ask for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Marija Obradović, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Dubravka Filipovski, Elvira Kovac, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Aleksandar Stevanović, Aleksandar Seselj, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dejan Šulkić. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote for - 121 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on military education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - 123 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft safety law in railway transport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the interoperability of the railway system, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on railways, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the ban on gambling, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 April 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the draft law amending the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2018, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The SRS parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2018, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - 136, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Capital Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of the facilities in Belgrade's district of Savavala and the identification of the facts and responsibilities of the persons who executed the destruction of those facilities, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? He's not in the O.R. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law establishing the public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit, for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he didn't come to the session. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding suspected transactions of the Serbian Progressive Party, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the parliamentary elections in 2014 and the presidential elections in 2017, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No, he didn't come to the session and he didn't justify his absence. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to establish facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Skoda” of the Ministry of Interior, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there, and he hasn't even justified his absence from this session. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—seven, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the reconstruction of Slavi Square and the construction of the music fountain, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there, and I'm worried something didn't happen to him. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact of how the Serbian Defence Minister, Mr Alexander Vulin, acquired an apartment in Belgrade of 107m square euros worth 244.620 euros, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? He finally joined the session. Comrade Balša Bozovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33524	Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Chairman of this assembly, I would first of all like to welcome you and tell you that I am well. I'm in good health and you don't have to worry about me and my safety. What is the case with the proposed polling committee is to show how your colleague, military minister Alexander Vulin, who you vote for in this assembly, Mr Arsic, and how he obtained an apartment of several hundred thousand euros, since he apparently paid it in cash, and that cash could not justify it, he said that he had borrowed his wife's aunt from Canada. What is offensive to all Serbian citizens is that in this way you are trying to degrade the citizens of Serbia because you do not want institutions to be respected, to respect the laws of this country. Each of the officials in power today has one such case, whether it's the same value, whether it's perhaps greater value, whether it's less value, but many SNS officials have a problem showing and proving the origin of their assets. This has been achieved by making people in Serbia increasingly poor, while SNS officials and ministers are becoming richer. I don't think Alexander Vulin is a member of any other party other than the SNS, directly appointed by Alexander Vukic, misusing his position, his functions, the authority that should serve citizens, not officials to buy apartments of several hundred thousand euros. For this reason, I think it is necessary that the survey committee is put together, in order to show where the money came from to the SNS officials, Alexander Vulin and the others who bypass the law, have some money, and no one knows where that money came from, who gave them that money, why he gave them that money, obviously it's not their money, so let's see how and how you live, Mr Arsic, and how Serbian citizens live after these phenomenal six years of your government, in which citizens are increasingly poor, while you are getting richer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33525	I thank my colleague Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 11 against – one that is abstentioned. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the Investment Investment Investment in Agriculture Project between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Belgrade in connection with the signing of an agreement on the construction of a burner in Vinca, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? My colleague Bozovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33526	We have also talked about this in the Belgrade City Assembly several times. This is a robbery of Belgrade. In the last 30 million years, the city of Belgrade stands out for the burner, while many other things the city of Belgrade is absolutely no longer taking care of, above all, of social care in the city, primarily of the oldest citizens, of transport, of roads that are in no worse shape, of Belgrade that is dirty, of many other things that concern the quality of life, the city of Belgrade has long no longer cared. Thirty million is quite a business, Mr. Arsic, for SNS officials who signed the contract, but it is not a good business for citizens of Belgrade who will have to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33527	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to establish facts relating to human trafficking in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, etc. "Yellow House", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? My colleague Bozovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33528	This is a disgrace to this government of the Republic of Serbia, since it is your coalition partners Ramush Haradinaj in Kosovo and Metohija. I expect, of course, that you support your coalition partner, so that you do not vote in favour of this proposal for the polling committee, since you do not care who brought in the citizens of Serbia and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, arrested, killed and eventually removed organs and sold on the world's black market. What is a disgrace to this country is that the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has irrefutable evidence that SNS coalition partner Ramush Haradinaj is someone who is not only a suspect, but there is concrete evidence that he has committed certain acts suspected of being in close contact with the trafficking of human organs in Kosovo and Metohija during the 1999 war. So, I ask you to show the citizens of Serbia who you care more about, to Ramush Haradinaj or to those whose faces are standing in front of this Assembly, who continue to be missing and provide you with a wall of wages in front of the Serbian Parliament, so that their families may be satisfied because, behold, you have given them a free billboard, and you will not do anything to make these crimes light, that these victims are respected and that justice finally comes for all those who are sad about it, and I am quite sure that all the citizens of Serbia. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has evidence that Ramush Haradinaj is guilty and unless you want to bring your coalition partner into some decent situation, you should be ashamed of it. The Serbian Progressive Party is protecting a war criminal, not its citizens. This is what is a disgrace to this government and this assembly majority, and believe me, it will remain recorded in Serbia's history and you will never be able to escape from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33529	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33530	It's that set of health laws that concern health and ability to function candidates for the highest function in this country. It refers to this law to members of the government, and a similar law exists for both candidates for the president and candidates for MPs. We have been witnessing lately, in the last five, six years intensely, and before that we have been chosen for these most functions by people who by their actions and behavior very clearly show that they are neither physical nor psychologically prepared to do this work. It is therefore a good practice to introduce a medical examination, which is usually passed by by by all people who want to be employed in the state administration, whether it is the referents, whether it is drivers, whether it is the archivals, the chiefs of the cabinet or anyone, there is no reason, if these people are doing less important and complex jobs than the ministers should do, if it is the Government's Law, that if they need to pass the medical examination that they do not also candidates for government members. I don't know why you're scared. I've been proposing this for a year and very few MPs vote for it. I don't know who's afraid of those medical examinations. Why is it such a trauma? Why is that a danger? Is it a danger of truth or is it a danger that goes to another side? I would like to not place such dilemmas on Serbian citizens, to show that we have a health authority in medical terms, which is of course not protected from corruption because it is medically healthy, it is a job for other laws and other services. But, ladies and gentlemen, the doctors would have the opportunity to give certification to all those whom some citizens rightly suspect are capable of performing their duties. Because, say, to say that someone is normal, that means they fill that psych ward, if they tell you that for some miserable subsidies, say, to a two, three million-euro airport within six years, it takes that airport to become the property of Belgrade, the Serbian government. Why? At the same time, the airport in Banja Luka is promised five, six million without asking to change ownership. So, examinations are a good thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33531	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33532	Thank you. The draft law amending the Labour Act is part of this group of laws dealing with health, but it does not apply here to MPs, nor to the president, nor to members of the government, nor to candidates for those functions, but to citizens of Serbia who are not concerned with politics. Well, it says, in the Labour Act, in Article 187 of the position of 1st, it is changed and said – during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for child care and leave of work due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. I haven't heard from the Serbian government, who needs to make a statement about this, or anyone in this House who hears the reasons why this amendment should not be adopted. Who's that hitting? Why are colleagues and colleagues MPs against the fact that during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for a special care child and leave for the purpose of special care of the child and leave of work for a temporary period of 30 days so that the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. What's the problem with that? Which prevents you from voting for this law, except you don't hear the bell before you have to plead. Is there one civilization, medical, patriotic, economic, legal or any reason why you don't vote for amendments to the laws that need to enable people who find themselves not to be given God, in one of these situations you don't have to worry about their minimum existence? Is it necessary that everything that makes any sense is rejected just because it comes as a proposal for these foreign halls? I've been a private entrepreneur since 1986, and by various laws I've done business, except when I was in politics, I didn't do that job. No one has ever had a chance to be threatened in any way, let alone fired in any of these situations, and not just this. Therefore, if someone who presents himself as a man of liberal understanding regarding the economy proposes such a law, then those who praise themselves with their demagogue care for all Serbian citizens should immediately accept such a law and remain registered to have brought something good in their term.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33533	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for ten, against. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33534	With pleasure. So, let me do one more explanation. I don't think what you think I think, that this law should apply to the existing president of the state, his salvation is gone, he's already been elected without this law, so this prevention should apply to future carriers and to one of the highest functions in our country. So don't be afraid for the leader of your party or the coalition leader, but to look a little into the future. Of course, we will agree that in the last, how long the multi-party in Serbia, 27/28 years, has been the place of the president of the state of everything and everything. There were also people who were completely responding to that position, but there were also people who were obviously having major health problems, whether it was physiological problems or mental problems. In order to prevent this, I suggest that we adopt a law that says, in the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, in Article 11(3) after point 2), point 2a is added, which reads – medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. Why are you afraid of that? It's the same totally normal thing. So it's about the same as your review at the level of the driver's license check, either for possession or carrying weapons or for employment in state authorities. That's where I think it's just someone who has a valid reason to be afraid of this kind of change of law, votes against it. Anyone who thinks he's personally capable, healthy, that the candidate he supports is capable and healthy has no reason to fear this amendment to the law. What do we get by that? Big protection. First, the president of the state is a more or less responsible function, depending on whether he usurps or not, but generally even if he doesn't, he's the commander-in-chief, he talks, he represents the state, he has a lot of important jobs he does. Imagine it happens in the future that we choose the president of the state to say to his people that they're total jerks, to his closest associates, or to say that they're some dummies, or to say that he walks the night between two closed bookstores to buy books, or to say that he studied English at a hardware store in London that doesn't exist. Imagine something like that happening? I think you're aware of all the dangers that would happen then.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33535	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017. My colleague Zivkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33536	Thank you. This is the last of this group of laws on the health of our political scene, and now in this case I can understand why the congregation majority votes against. It is quite clear why it votes against - because it has a reserve towards the possibility that in the Law on the Selection of Members of Parliament it is necessary that candidates for MPs must have medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies. I understand that already, and it's a completely personal matter. It is something that dims the possibility of one part of my colleagues seeing themselves again in this House as representatives of the people and I will have an understanding that most will now not vote for this bill, and I am sure that not only those who fear the results of this medical examination will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33537	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does counterpart Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33538	Thank you very much. And on the proposal for this law, I will also have an understanding of the largest number of colleagues who will vote against the adoption of this law, because it provides for the following: that in the Law on Higher Education in Article 4 after point 1), point 1a is added: "Academic Honesty". I apologize for using these difficult terms and dangerous, academic congratulations. After Article 5, the name of the member and member of the 5a shall be added – Academic congratulation. Then, Article 5a – The academic congratulation is based on the independent production of written works, as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights. I know it's a danger to a large number of colleagues on the other side. We can also see that when we move on to the amendments, when we have that reading class, where with great effort almost everyone can read something that someone else wrote to them, but imagine that it applies in higher education? This would lead to the disastrous consequences of the ruling regime in Serbia, so that I, this time, save time for the chairman, will not continue to explain further because I believe this proposal will not be supported by colleagues, a number of colleagues, primarily because of the fear of being affected by this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33539	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the tobacco industry and the involvement in the then state summit led by then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow farmer made a privatisation of DIN and DIV for small money during Sablje. DIN was estimated at a billion and 200m euros. It's sold for two and a half times the amount. It is fundamentally suspected that he did so in his common sense, at least so he claims, during the "Sabre" period when human rights were suspended. Some competitors were arrested for each case and closed for two and a half months, to pass the tender, to sell it, and something that cost a billion and 200 million, for a commission of $12 million was sold for two and a half times a smaller figure. Those 12 million, as sources claim, well-informed, kept my fellow farmer. Fivem euros, won for the Vranje tobacco industry, DIV, were retained by those congratulatory members of the former regime, which was spoken of by Balsa Bozovic. It's about aunt's soap, and they like their aunts to mention it, someone else's. It's about an aunt's soap named Djelic. He was called the Duke of Meridian Bank, who then caught himself well in the bank with these international channels when he robbed his own state. The second part was reportedly kept by Vlahovic, and therefore I ask that the survey board be established not to determine whether it was in a healthy sense, in his common sense, in the way he speaks, sometimes should be suspected, but rather to determine who all participants were in the tobacco affair and why something costing a billion and 200, plus DIV, sold for 500m euros, and this resulted in a huge discharge resulting in the fact that they were farmers, and he was my colleague, a farmer, had significant damage, because those factories stopped buying domestic tobacco, even though we had installed our own time to buy tobacco processors from domestic tobacco farmers, but they also deleted it. So it's an affair that weighs close to a billion euros, and that's why I'm asking that the polling committee not question my fellow farmer's health, but to examine this billion-euro affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33541	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33542	Thank you. Today, on this day, on 24 April, it is true that 103 years from the beginning of genocide against the Armenians, carried out by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922, and today it is the right day to make an effort, in whatever state you are in, that one nation, with whom we share some closeness, religious, may be a origin, but it is certain that, like them, we have been victims of genocide, to make efforts and to, with full rights, as citizens of different nationalities who have been victims of genocide, to vote this resolution, to show solidarity and to indicate that genocide is always genocide, no matter how and where it works. This resolution or declaration, depending on the state to the state, was brought by the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and a dozen states within the United States. Bearing in mind that the attachment of the Republic of Serbia to international principles and rules on the prevention and condemnation of genocide is also expressed by the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide. That's another reason why on today, on the 100th anniversary of the start of the genocide over the Armenians, we make one gesture that is much more than a political gesture. It's one civilization gesture to show solidarity to the Armenians. The fact that demonstrations are currently being held in Armenia against the current regime should not spoil your desire to show solidarity by voting for this motion for a resolution. On the other hand, I contacted the ambassador of Azerbaijan almost a year ago, a country in hostile relations with Armenia, and they don't mind adopting such a resolution. Of course, this resolution would have no effect on our relations with the Republic of Turkey, because Turkey is today, regardless of any other interpretations, I believe that it is not Turkey from the Ottoman Empire. Therefore, I invite you to show solidarity on the 100th anniversary of the start of the genocide over the Armenians.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33543	I thank my colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does the MP, Zoran Zivkovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33544	Thank you. This has nothing to do with the health of the MPs, but it has to do with the health of the nation. What's the point of the proposal? The proposal is to amend and supplement the Law on the Selection of People's MPs by introducing a new Article 49a to read – It is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media, which is broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to submit electoral lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. This means that I propose banning the advertising of political parties and other political actors both in the campaign and out of the campaign, and when elections are and when it is inter-election time because we are witnesses, practically, without exception and advertising that costs for these Belgrade elections, over 20m euros, for the presidents was close to 100m euros. It's an example of political, aesthetic, moral and any fourth, fifth and sixth, any system. So, it's ugly, it's political for drowning and it's morally unacceptable, and it's huge money. I've already spoken several times, of these couples without a problem could be treated by all the children who are suffering from diseases that have no cure in our country, but have to look for the possibility of treatment outside our country. Or it would be quite enough to complete the National Museum in Belgrade 26 times. Or 10,000 times more money than this singing fountain on Slavia, which began to collapse around both left and right. So the mass of things can be done with that money. The biggest nonsense is when you still have to look at it, and yet to show that you like something that's completely pointless, something that should wear a tag forbidden to everyone not under 18, like there are those labels on TV for programs, but it's forbidden for everyone under 88 years, 90, I apologize, for everything under 90 years. It's just something that doesn't belong, it's as ugly as these farms, couples, Cyrillics and other nonsense. It should be banned by law, and that money should be directed where it belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33545	Thank you. I'm sorry. I'll extend it to you next time. I'm an accident. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted 146 out of 150 MPs for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33546	This bill refers to the same topic that I was talking about in the previous bill, which means that we save the people's money and that they don't throw themselves away for the so-called so-called. advertising and what I said was already aesthetic, political, moral and in any third, fourth and fifth ways unacceptable. And this law deals with these money, so I'm asking for an amendment to delete Article 23. Paragraph 3 that allows us to now until we change it to finance from the budget, which means people's money or so on. sponsor. This means from those who stole from the budget, then give money to political parties, by waving those who are in power at the moment, to clap us with the worst possible content that is nowhere, anywhere. If you want to hurt someone, then you need some other country, some other nation, not God, then you need to broadcast our ads there, and it's going to do a lot of damage. These are not the money honest politicians collect in a fair way. It's money that gets kidnapped by citizens in the worst possible way and spends on the worst possible things. Someone will ask, "What is a replacement?" How can citizens learn what are the political messages that candidate lists, candidates individually offer to citizens? I have to tell you, and that's what I said last time, there's one newspaper that's been there, there's no more than 50-60 years, but I hope you'll soon understand what's the point of it, which is that they're making dual shows on TV, where they're carrying various political projects, whether they've passed a medical examination or they haven't, and they're walking from bench to bench or from bookstore to bookstore, they're dealing with their views on the subject in a civilized way, with arguments where they communicate so that people can understand without costing anything. To keep that big money and use it where it's more necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33547	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for six of them, out of a total of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33548	This is an innovation of a good law that was passed in 2003, but unfortunately it was not applied because the first next authority that was to apply it gave up its application and in the most harsh way by the fact that several ministers who were in charge of implementing this law had entered the crimes that were sanctioned by this law. What was the point of this law? That no one is allowed to stab an ace anywhere until they get all the proper documents to start construction, which, of course, is a normal thing, it's not any repression of the state. That's not what people who are socially endangered do, so let me do something without permission cheaper. No, that's what those who undoubtedly have a lot of money and undoubtedly a lot of money who are very strange, unusual, I'd say, of illegal criminal origin. Irregular construction is an inconclusive syntagma in any normal language. When you tell a German, a German translator to translate, either English or French, what illegal construction is, they have to explain it in eight sentences, because no one can understand in the normal world that someone can start building, and there are not all the permits that are necessary for that, and for the respect of the law, but also for themselves. It's an old practice here, and in 2003, a serious attempt was made to prevent it and, unfortunately, I said it ended. And today, regardless of drilling into the chest, swearing, not sleeping at night, a child with no steak, and only on those squid in the pot, no matter what, wild building flowers all around us. I repeated 20 times that illegal facility that Minister Mihajlovic said would be a sad man and would be destroyed, because he was illegally building, was only about to be put in a chimney, and the chimney wasn't put on because it was central heating, so there's no need to have a chimney. Otherwise, Nebojsina 8a, concluded against the law, with respect through the Belgrade elections, through the oath of all to do so, through all documents issued by the competent municipality of Vračar, Belgrade City and the ministry. No, it's wild still. Why? Well, they're close to some obscenities who boast, I can't believe they're close to an active regime. We have the most extreme example of this, this is Belgrade on water, I said, after the pyramids in ancient Egypt, the largest wild construction site in mankind's history. So vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33549	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – no one, abstentioned – has, of course, 151. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Society "Such Insurance" Kragujevac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33550	Thank you very much. A survey committee has just been proposed, which is defined in a series of unfortunate circumstances, such as the lack of medical examination before the run-off and other diseases that someone will consult with their doctor or pharmacist, and I voted for this polling committee, because it is mentioned in that proposal and I think it is fair that everything, wherever it is mentioned, or implies that it should be mentioned, that it should be evicted, even if it was the polling committee, but I didn't see a majority of it earlier, because maybe the bell didn't work or any other reason. This is a decision on the education of the polling committee for the illegal withdrawal of permits for the work of insurance "Tako". Nearly 500 people worked in that insurance company. They were denied permission when they were on the threshold of a good sale, since it's usually a private firm. So it's not privatisation, it's just market sales. It was meant to be, to end the deal with one of the biggest European, even world authorities in the business sense in this area, but someone, which is unfair, managed to take away a license to work because of the alleged low level of capital, because of the lack of law, small reserves, which is absolutely contrary to what was proven in the court procedure that was followed, where it was seen that this insurance was better than 80% of other insurance companies in Serbia according to all these parameters. There was great damage, of course, to the owners, but also to the people who worked in the company, the town of Kragujevac, where the company's headquarters is and, more importantly, the trust of investors in this country. That fairy tale that big investors come to us, that's a lie unseen. That's a lie. These big companies that hire our workers here for 200 euros, to scrape wires, that's technology, there's a board, so some cables are running on that board, and eventually they're cremating, that's a lie. And serious investors came to this country in 2002, 2003, and so some survey board can determine when "Simens" came to this country, when Philip Morris came, when the "Fiat" came, when big, big investors who are serious came. It's the way they break up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33551	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the wine affair and the assets of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33552	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what is certain is that the polling committee, which I will insist on until this Assembly decides to form it, is that despite the state's investment of 525 000 euros, plus 30,000 euros for "Vinarija Zivkovic", it is certain that the survey board and members of the survey board will not consume wine from that winery. It's never been produced. In 2007 a regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture was adopted in the spring that registered agricultural holdings that have agricultural land, and seduction in the Treasury, could use incentives to raise vines and hops. At that moment, Zoran Zivkovic did not have registered agricultural land. It's registered in half of July. He had neither agricultural land nor had land on which he allegedly planted on a plot of 52 acres [52 ha] 42 hectares [42 ha] of vineyards. He received 525,000 euros in incentives for this, and another 30,000 later. The land was leased from the state only in November 2007. You will agree that due to the 2007 Spring Fruit Regulation, no spring could happen in November 2007. That spring could have been in the Maldives, the ones that got tan, but it couldn't have happened in Serbia. That is why I insist and expect those from the former regime's party to vote for the establishment of a polling committee. Just to remind them, don't laugh, where he hanged himself like a tick, there was no salvation. So it's about a man who said a few years ago that DS is neither party nor democratic. I can agree with that, considering she gave him this kind of incentive. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought he was acting crazy because of the army and sending us in for checks, but now I think he's not acting at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could have bought him a vineyard, but his mind was hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33553	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no, of a total of 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade, as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" in Belgrade, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. MP Sasa Radulovic is not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. National MP Radulovic is not in the hall. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. National MP Radulovic is not in the hall. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. National MP Radulovic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAE, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. National MP Radulovic is not in the hall. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the ER Serbia, the commitments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Ethichad have to do with the ER Serbia, the total business loss from 2013 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to the ER Serbia in the same period and the damage to the contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Ethyhad and the UAE, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for the resolution of Veroljub Arsic from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. National MP Radulovic, not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for two, against those who are abstentioned, among the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the termination of the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions were paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that point to the link between Aleksandr Vukic and Andrej Vukic with the rightful convicted drug dealer Aleksandr Stanković, called Sale Mutavi, and the forced takeover of the luxury restaurant "Franš" in Belgrade, management rights over IT companies of the IT industry Alti/Vin-Vin, Prointer and Energosoft, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by Željzar Smederevo from 2014 to today, the total amount of State aid granted to Jelizari Smederevo in the same period and the damage to all contracts concluded by the RS government in connection with the operation of Jelizara during that period, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. National MP Radulovic is not in the hall. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine whether during the elections for MPs, held on 24 April 2016, elections were held, or whether votes in the local elections, held on the same day, were won by opposition civil movements, minority parties and opposition parties, stolen and registered as votes in election lists by Aleksandar Vucic Serbia, Ivica Dačić – the Socialist Party of Serbia, Unity Serbia – Dragan Markovic Palma and Dr Vojislav Seselj – the Serbian Radical Party, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to see the overall election material of the 2017 presidential elections and to determine whether the election material contained anomalies and what they consisted of, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for one, against the abstention, of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the bankruptcy that is being conducted over the RDB Bor mining base, the reasons for the huge losses incurred by RTB Bor, the total amount of State aid granted to RTB Bor and the harmfulness of the plan for the reorganisation of RTB Bor, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. National MP Radulovic is not in the hall. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the public company "Srbigas", as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the public undertaking "Srbigas" started from the establishment of the company in 2005 until today, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the opinion committee to identify the facts relating to the irregularities in voting and circumstances which led to this and marked the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic of 2017 in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the origin of the money by which Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin bought an apartment in Belgrade, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentioned ones, of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for one, against the abstentions, of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 145 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Provisional Regulation of the bases for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from the beneficiaries of public funds, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Ambassador Radulovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 145 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Minister of Business Sasa Radulovic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Sasa Radulovic is not here, that he has gone, that he has forgotten to return, probably has some big meetings, I will wait for another session for him to appear and I will explain this in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33555	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are none, for four, against the abstentions, of the 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33556	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Defence are extremely important and this is an extremely important law, as is the defence system, both for those of us who do this work in the National Assembly and for the whole country as a whole. I must say immediately that I do not expect the SNS to adopt these amendments and supplement the Defence Act because on the one hand, your position on the security system is known when the defence minister is Alexander Vulin, and on the other hand, knowing your position on how members of the Serbian Army live. Of course, there are military laws and BIA laws at this session, so I look forward to tomorrow and the days to come, in which we will discuss this extremely important topic. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 97 and points 4.6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the Republic of Serbia has just been determined to regulate and ensure the defence and security of its citizens. The Defence Act is insufficient and does not provide answers to essential questions. One of the main reasons is the obsolescence of basic strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security situations, both in the country in which we live and in the entire region. It is essential, above all, that we establish compatibility between all laws that are related to the system of defence in general. We don't have compatibility and harmony between the Defense Act and the Emergency Act. I don't think that's anything that's impossible to do. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Defence are extremely important and I do not know what is controversial in Article 1 which says that the basic strategic documents are the National Defence Strategy, the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Doctor's Army of Serbia and the doctrine of the areas of non-war exports, risks and threats. We have 18 members proposed to amend and supplement the Defense Act and I ask you to put this on the agenda. I thank the prominent experts in this area who helped the Democratic Party propose these amendments and supplement the agenda of the Defence Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33557	Thank you, fellow Milojicic. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, none, of the 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2016. Here's a colleague of Milojičić's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33558	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished citizens, the Democratic Party is proposing amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government precisely because the lives of all citizens are equally important to us, whether they live in Surdulica, Subotica or Belgrade. The Democratic Party proposes these changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government because only last year, the Serbian Progressive Party seized five billion dinars from all local self-government in Serbia. Prior to that, during its six-year reign, over 50 billion dinars were seized by all local self-governments. You've brought down local leaders, i.e. The presidents of municipalities and mayors depend on the government of the Republic of Serbia and depend on the ruling majority. It may be in your favor now, but we've seen that it's not good and it's not transparent. It is the European Charter that Serbia ratified in 2007, and against which you were then, that makes it clear to me now why, for all local self-governments, it guarantees political, administrative and financial independence, so that citizens in their environments will decide their own problems and what problems they will solve in their environments. As you took away over 50 billion dinars from local self-government, you reduced local self-government to having party listeners. We have the mayor of the Kings who opened the traffic light as a capital investment, we have Mayor Leskovec who opened the tap as a capital investment. We see that that's not enough, but the mayor of Subotica beat up his associate, and the mayor of the Kings went one step further -- last Saturday he beat up a random passerby because he threw something at him. No matter which political party it comes from, it is not appropriate in 2018. Then you wonder – where do violence come from in both family and sports fields? Because those who decide on this country promote this violence. Please adopt these amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. We have information that in the EU half of budget revenues belong to local self-governments, and half to the central level of government, while in the Republic of Serbia, all local self-governments, together with the AP Vojvodina, only 10.2% of the revenues we as a state have. I think it's really bad for the functioning of the entire state and local self-government in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33559	Thank you, fellow Milojicic. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for seven, none, self-sustained, none, of the 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2017. Here's a colleague of Milojičić's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33560	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, every government is variable. Because of you, we have proposed amendments to the Law on Public Information and the media. I'm interested in why you don't adopt these proposed amendments to the Public Information Act and the media? I suggest that each member of Parliament should have one MP who deals or is most professional on the subject, so that we can do one law together. The laws are not God knows what if these laws are not respected, because you existing laws on information and the media don't respect them. It works by picking up SNS in all the local self-governments of television, and these TVs say praises about SNS and mud, harassing and persecuting, without any basis and without any evidence, all the people who dare to be against the policy that you represent. In addition, the fact that only during 2013 has 23 attacks on journalists been recorded. But what's with you is that whenever we think we can't do something worse, you convince us, unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia, otherwise you can prove that you can go up there. During 2017, 54 attacks against journalists took place in Serbia, 23 attacks during 2013, during 2017 there were 54 attacks on journalists. We still have no information as to what happened to the inauguration of the President of the Republic. To be completely honest and completely open, do not blame DS on you because of your party membership or non-partisan membership, for us is the same archaic if you from the SNS do not take off "Pinka" 24 hours, it is bad for both you and the citizens of Serbia, as some other opposition or positional politicians do not take off the other TV for 24 hours. We're on principle, so we're against what a single political party does on one television, they're 24 hours on that television, so we're against you being on certain televisions, you just have more space, also 24 hours. That's bad for democracy, bad for public information, bad for Serbian citizens. We need objective reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33561	Thank you, fellow Milojicic. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare, six, against none, abstentioned, none, of the 141 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. Here's a colleague of Milojičić's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33562	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97 of point 8) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Democratic Party proposes three concrete measures. The Democratic Party suggests providing free transportation from home to school for each student whose parents do not work, free snack and free textbooks. We had a few days ago here the Law on Electronic textbooks, which means that all parents will have to provide a laptop or tablets to their children, and on the other hand, that law is not compatible with the reality in which we are. Dear gentlemen, unfortunately, we have 50,000 children who are hungry every day, whose parents do not work, whose parents cannot provide them with lunch during the day. We've made a huge disproportion and that's not good at all. That's not the kind of Serbia we stand for. Unfortunately, we also have an example of a boy from Moll who took his own life. First of all, he left high school in Vienna for lack of weight, for his parents were unable to provide him with transportation, and then he took his own life. I think that these are extremely scary things and that we should base ourselves on how citizens really live, not what we're talking about here. In 2016, the share of children in Serbia's total population was only 17.3%, making us an extremely old nation. The DS therefore proposes a concrete measure to ensure free out-of-body fertilisation for parents who cannot have their offspring. This morning when I read the data about this bill, I came up with a really frantic data, that's that 400,000 people have a problem with sterility, that they can't be realized as parents. I think we should answer that in a quality, responsible and disciplined way. You can build bridges, you can build roads, but it doesn't mean anything to us if there aren't enough children in Serbia. Unfortunately, there are thousands of villages in Serbia with fewer than 100 inhabitants. The average age for these people is 75 years. That's all the facts. I don't, of course, accuse anyone here directly, but ladies and gentlemen you've been responsible for six years, as we were responsible from 2008 to 2012, and there's no one on the political scene in Serbia who hasn't been in power, so let's say -- well, that's the genius we're waiting for, now he's going to change all that... You were a friend, but in the library. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33563	Please, Mr. Milojich, don't abuse the pay phone. (Radoslav Milojic: I'm getting it.) No, you're an experienced MP, it doesn't make sense. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one with abstention – has, of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2016. The word has a People's MP, Radoslav Milojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33564	Thank you, Chairman. I apologize to my colleagues who were almost out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33565	Thanks for the apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33566	Constitutional basis for lawmaking... I'm sorry, didn't I hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33567	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33568	... for the adoption of the Police Act, it is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are necessary in view of the situation in which the members of the MUP are located. First, the SNS cut their salaries, and then the SNS reduced their journals. You today have a situation where members of the MUP do the hardest, most responsible jobs, provide security and security for us and our countries, and for that they have a daily of 150 dinars. For 150 dinars, they can't buy a single muffin and a glass of yogurt, which is embarrassing. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first is that the MUP must determine the needs of the system. In four, five, six, seven and eight years, it will take that number of students to attend school. We can't have so much incompatibility between the number needed to work in the MUP and the number of young, educated and educated students who finish the Police Academy with the best grades, go through all the training, come out as professional staff and then tell them in the MUP – sorry, there's no room for you here. These people don't know that they're doing anything other than what they've been trained to do, so I think this law is extremely important that we train staff according to the needs of the system. The second point is that the provision of Article 172 is Article 2. The law on police is breaking the presumption of innocence, and I suggest you delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33569	Thanks, buddy. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has, of 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2017. My fellow Milojitsu, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33570	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, another extremely important topic we will be discussing for the next few days, because our military laws, the BIA laws are on the agenda. The Democratic Party has proposed to amend and supplement 18 members of Serbia's Military Law. I thank the people who helped us make the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army together. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I really can't believe we don't have compatible and harmonised military laws and defense laws, which are almost two identical acts. What's the matter with these amendments and the additions to the Military Act, I'd like you to answer us, except that you won't accept any amendments and additions to the law proposed by anyone in the DS? The dispute is the trust citizens have in Serbia's military. In six years, the SNS authorities changed five defence ministers. I spoke two years ago here that every new secretary of defense who comes here is worse than his predecessor. Just when we think you can't go up there at the Department of Defense, you're now bringing in Minister Alexander Vulin, the man who deserted the army to be Minister of Defense. On the other hand, we have catastrophic data regarding the Serbian Army. We have data that 80% of Serbian Army members have less profits than the average earnings in Serbia. Eighty per cent of people working in the military have lower earnings than the average earnings in Serbia. Seventy percent of military civilians earn 22,000 dinars. With 22,000 dinars, you're on the verge of poverty, on the verge of existence. How can someone survive with 22,000 dinars, who every day has to go to work, who has a family without talking about people who don't even have those 22,000 dinars. Seventy-two percent of the people, members of the Serbian Army, who left the army last year, 72% did so on a personal request. Ladies and gentlemen, the army was an institution with the highest confidence in its citizens. Now the army is an institution to escape from. You cut soldiers' wages, you cut soldiers' journals. I don't really know what else we need to do and how many times we have to propose amendments and additions to the law to make the same suggestions. I'd like you to tell us, of course, what about those moments? Two years ago, we heard six moments had arrived in Serbia. When are these moments going to be functional, or were they made up by Minister Vulin himself, and there's nothing there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33571	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has, since 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee, to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the VBA, who, without a decision of the court, had been spying on political parties, union leaders and individual judges, who submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2017. Ambassador Milojic, he doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – there is no one with abstention – of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcys to the Shining Vehicles “Goša” from Smederjevska Palanka, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? He's not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – there is no one with abstention – of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of former President SO Smederjevska Palanka Radoslav Milojic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you just heard Mr. Heineken talking about violence. As part of my request for a committee of inquiry, I am here to investigate the violence that took place in the Palanca. So Branislav Petrovic, 63, was beaten up by my colleague. Criminal charges have been sent to the D.A.'s office, but nothing so far has happened. He also spoke of violence against journalists. Please be asked if a journalist Milan Pantic was killed during the former regime's rule in 2001, that Dragoljub Milanovic was lynched, it is a bit hypocritical. So it's a little hypocritical that those who have done private jobs, done violence, even here have been looking for me in the rooms of the Assembly to be beaten by Mr Heineken and another non-permanent MP. That's a lot of hypocrisy. Furthermore, they're talking about corruption. I think an anti-corruption team of DS exists for a reason. They understand most about corruption, they've grown into corruption, so the anti-corruption team needs to deal with them first. Imagine a man who talks about lunches, and I'm asking for it to be tested in Palanca, who had two swimming pools in one evening. So, the pool has issued 2,050 euros a year, along with hot water, for 50 years. Look, made a contract by the president of the municipality, sold the city four times, owed four budgets a year and then sold the pool for 50 years, with a fee of 2,050 euros a year. In India, we issue an ice cream machine for 5,000 euros, and then with "Downbuilding", with his friend, yes, he did with Srba Sisavec, they are more mammals than mammals, and then concluded a contract with "Downbuilding" for 25 years. Look, he made a contract, destroyed the JKP company and took a private utility company to cut grass for 25 years, a year to cut grass for 33 million, and he is obliged to invest five million for all 30 years. Well, that's why I'm asking that the board of inquiry be educated and that's what the D.A. won't question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33573	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2016. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? (No) I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMC Kruševa factory "14. October", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not here. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to human victims and material and immaterial damages in the Serbian territory in 2014, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the privatisation of the PKK, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the United States and SR Germany embassies, which were attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as responsibility for both the former and current holders of the highest state functions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of the China company Meita in Barič, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract for the "Belgrade on Water" project, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the contract between the Republic of Serbia and Al Rawafed International Investment, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for the untrue presentation of the situation in relation to the level of aflatoxin in milk and corn, which caused considerable material and immaterial damage in the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the Serbian Government and Etihad Airways on the establishment of an air traffic company "Air Serbia", which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does counterpart Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. He's not there. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within the framework of Željzara Smederevo 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros at the annual level, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. He's not in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. He's not in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the way in which the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad, which, on 30 November 2012, took over Telekom Srbija's remaining debt to mention the 77,000-euro apartment, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. He's not in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Dual Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. He's not in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the provisional regulation of the way in which pensions were paid, which 22 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2018. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. He's not in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a party of the former regime whose president would have been Boris Tadic to the misfortune of many citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and fortunately the party of the former regime, Boris Tadic was also president of the Republic of Serbia in two terms. The second time he was elected, he was fully working to bring down the country. I must remind you that at a time when he was Minister of Defense from prison along with Zivkovic in the federal government, 2,108 Albanian terrorists were released from prison. The Djakovic group, the Drenic Group, was released to Mazrek brothers, who were convicted among other things for raping the girl. 2,108 Albanian terrorists were released who then committed a March pogrom. They're the same terrorists whose comrades were extracting organs from Serbs in the Yellow House. Apparently, our yellow house, the Albanian yellow house, was not interested. Also, Boris Tadic would have been elected next time with Vuk Jeremic at the US Embassy to ask Albanians, to influence the Albanians not to declare independence before Boris Tadic is re-elected president of the Republic of Serbia. That's what happened. Albanians seem to have declared themselves independent on February 17th. In February, 15th, Boris Tadic was elected, sworn in and became president of the Republic of Serbia and thus began his mandate, and Albania's independence was declared on 17 February 2008. I think that the polling board should address these facts and the fact that it followed where UNMIK was replaced by EULEX, where the non-binding opinion of the International Court of Justice that we did not need additional weight on Serbia's neck, which is why the Republic of Serbia has difficulties today. Which is why today, the Republic of Serbia cannot fully put our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija together with its constitutional legal system. In all developed countries, even where they go to CIA training, this would be treated as a high-level issue of the same, I ask that a survey committee be educated to deal with the activities of former Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33575	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad in connection with the privatisation of ATP Vojvodina and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former So Indjia President Goran Jesic and the non-intentional spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry Goran Jesic isn't here. I wanted to examine his affairs, including his apartment in Vienna, the Milk Republic, the supply of the University of Vojvodina with milk and dairy products from unregistered dairy and the supply of food products, ajvar, etc. from the unregistered ‘Fruit Republic’ of Markovina near Alexandrovac. Unfortunately, he's not here. I also wanted to establish a connection between him and Alexandra Jerkov on that survey board, since they both went through CIA training. I'm sorry Mrs. Jerkov isn't here. So, I would like to talk about it and talk about the violence that Mr Jesic is also prone to journalists, etc. and the violence we strongly condemn, which Mrs Jerkov does not condemn when it comes to Maja Gojkovic, when it comes to journalist Zelec, when it comes to RIK, although she was directly present and joined RIK along with Sasa Radulovic as the last chance. Since they're not here, I won't rush this proposal. So I believe the gentlemen mentioned will be present at one of the next sessions, when I will explain this request in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33577	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the swearing of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of a Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin, Cevdet Ayaz Turkey, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on property tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, and the non-intentional spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it's another president of the former regime, I'm afraid it's a little bit of those two, three committees of inquiry that I've been looking for. I think it's just for Mr. Gilas that he needs one ten committees of inquiry. Namely, ever since he inherited that gold mine in 2000, next to the torn-up shoes out there, it's been on its way ever since. I remind the former regime's party that Zoran Djindjic filed a criminal report following the PKK's application, it seems to me, for racketeering by Dragan Gilas, and I believe they certainly remember that he could not enter the DS until 2004. After the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, he entered the DS and used it to make a fortune with the gold mine, along with the torn-up shoes, so he doesn't even know what he's got. It would be easy for me today to feed the poor, which he has poored, but there are still indications that we cannot feed enough of this rich and greedy, as Dragan Gilas is. In fact, as he ruled a thousand times, the value of his company's assets increased. There are buildings worth several million euros, he had a media empire, etc., none of them until 2004. At the end of my term, and I remind the DS that this happened to them, along with Mrs Jerkov and Elezovic in a pair, "he took a hint" as young people say under the allegations of DS. So, those two Jerkov and Elezovic pushed them into debt, and then Gilas as a good villa took on DS debts and thus became their owner. Today DS is a slave to Dragan Gilas, because they are not allowed to say anything against him because he holds DS debts in such a way and the assets of DS and its name and its coat of arms and everything that the party once meant. In addition, Dragan Gilas of Pionirski Park, from building a bridge on Ada without a building permit, about getting a bus from abroad against a domestic company called Icarbus, about tearing down various plateaus and the arrangement of King Alexander's Bulevar, so it was well fed and well made of public office by a private business, which I was talking about. That is why I say there is little one survey committee to examine all irregularities and all that Dragan Djilas did while he was president of the Democratic Party, and also after the DS with the help of Mrs Jerkov and Elezovic, as the young say he was "garemo". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33579	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. She's not present. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. She's not present. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. She's not present. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Neo-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. She's not present. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – three, against – no one, with abstention – has. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Water Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017? Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 May 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Real Estates, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does MP Sonja Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a colleague of Ciric's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33580	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I will propose four laws dealing primarily with tax solutions in our Republic of Serbia, and with a key goal, the goal of contributing to a fairer social and fairer regional distribution. I think that, above all, it is important and today we can see how much willingness there is to hear suggestions and other MPs and other MPs' groups, above all, shows how little preparedness there is to debate the various solutions, and I don't think these are ideal solutions that I'm going to talk about, but I think it's important to put them on the agenda and talk about it, because when we start from the basic data we talk about in this Assembly, which is at this point the average salary in Serbia, the minimum consumer basket, which is the parameters that talk about the population standard in Serbia, although we know that the average wage is between 47 and 49,000 dinars, depending on the month and that we have a minimum consumer basket of 36,000 dinars, we need to open up the topics where we make a fair social distribution. This bill goes in terms of the motivation of employers to pay higher levels of earnings towards their employees. Therefore, it implies that the rate of corporate income tax becomes variable and is between 10 per cent and 30 per cent in correlation with the average net earnings per employee, according to statistical territorial units. What does that mean? To stimulate those who pay off 150% earnings from the average earnings in the statistical region in which the economic person acts. So if he pays 150 or more percent against the average profit, then his net profit would be less than this current 15%, it would be 10%, and that way we'd stimulate the payoff of bigger profits to our workers. On the other hand, it would be detimulative to those employers, under-responsible to their workers, who pay less than 80% compared to the average in the statistical region and then the profit tax rate would be 30%, and for all those who are between 80% and 150% on the average of their statistical region would remain at 15%. So the idea is to stimulate the work, that the capital of course has its contribution, but to reward the promotion of the work through the tax rate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33581	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Alexander Chabrai, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. Does the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33582	Thank you. I have proposed amendments to the three interlinked laws, because it is not enough to amend only the Law on Local Elections, but also the laws on local self-government and the capital, and therefore I will speak unitedly about all three proposals. What is the essence of the proposed changes is the introduction of a direct election by the mayor and the president of the municipalities, and the need to do so has also been shown by recent local elections, primarily in Belgrade. According to the upcoming electoral system, the mayors and the presidents of the municipalities are elected indirectly, i.e. they are elected by the congregations of cities and municipalities. What it wants to achieve with these amendments to the law is this: first, an increase in autonomy, as well as the responsibilities of elected local representatives towards citizens, and not so far, above all towards party summits, then, the increase in the concern of candidates for the needs of citizens, then, the reduction of space to lead citizens astray. For example, a number of citizens thought in previous elections that President Vukic was also a candidate for mayor of Belgrade, as well as the president of many municipalities in Serbia. Then, reducing the depersonalisation of politics, because because of this existing system, a very small number of citizens are now familiar with who the candidates are. This was particularly expressed in previous elections in the case of the SNS list, when the vast majority of committee candidates took cover behind President Vukic, and unfortunately, the president himself has once again shown that he is not the president of all citizens. The adoption of these changes would avoid a situation where we now find ourselves in spite of the convincing victory of the SNS in the Belgrade elections, we continue to know almost two months afterwards who will be mayor of Belgrade, the capital, which is political, economic, cultural and any other centre of Serbia. Such behaviour is also practically a demeaning of the citizens of Belgrade. In addition to the direct election of mayors and the president of municipalities, the electoral law should be amended by giving citizens a more direct decision on who will be elected from the electoral lists, so that they can declare themselves a candidate within the lists themselves. In this way, the order of candidates in the elections would not depend on the schedule on the election list that formed the party summits, but on the number of votes they received individually. That's how someone who is, for example. was the last one on the list could be the first if you got the highest number of votes the citizens had. An alternative solution would be the introduction of a majority system. These changes would encourage candidates to deal more with citizens' problems, as well as internal competition. Finally, the principles mentioned above should also be applied to the elections for the Serbian Parliament. This is possible by either introducing a mixed system or proportional to a preferential vote, with Serbia being previously divided into several electoral units, which would allow all parts of Serbia to be represented in parliament. Therefore, as previously said, we MPs of the Civil Platform will soon propose amendments to the Law on selecting Members of the People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33583	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law to cease the validity of the Law on Dual Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2017. Does MP Branka Stamenkovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Ana Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does MP Ana Stevanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33584	The essence of this law is, once again, I will repeat the goal that should be the goal of all of us, which is a fairer social distribution, a fairer regional distribution, therefore, both horizontally and vertically. Article 1 of the proposal of this law says that they are earned from art. It shall add the revenue referred to in Article 61(1) of point (24) of this Act to 13 to 15b. The essence of this amendment in the draft law is, above all, the inclusion of dividend incomes in incomes subject to annual income tax. So the idea is to make that distribution fairer and burden of income on capital and taxes and labour taxation. From a simple analysis and what little we talk about, which is a question of poverty in Serbia and a large number of people living below the poverty line, which is about 8% at this point according to official data that can be seen on the government site, which is about 500,000 people in Serbia, is one serious information and a warning that at least we have to talk about this in order to look for solutions. I say once again, these are not ideal solutions, but they can contribute to a fairer social distribution. When you start with the data that, once again, the minimum consumer basket in Serbia is 36,000 dinars, and that the poverty limit for the four-member family in Serbia is 31,500 dinars, it means that about 4.5 thousand dinars are missing for the four-member family in Serbia to the amount of 36,000 dinars, i.e. minimum consumer baskets. So, the figure of 8% of Serbia's population below the poverty line is something that worries, and even more is the data I'm going to tell you, which is 25.4% of the population is at risk of poverty and 38.7% at risk of poverty and social exclusion. This is twice the poverty rate of the EU countries. These are the data that should warn us that at least these topics are being discussed, and this bill is going in that direction. Income from dividends taxed as a personal income tax. I don't think we have that right now as a solution, which is something that can help those who are in this poverty status in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33585	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bills on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Elections, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 6 October 2017. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 29 September 2017. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill establishing tax on undeclared citizens' income, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 13 September 2017. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the implementation of the elections for the Council of the City of Belgrade, held on 4 March 2018, from the date of publication until the date of publication of the final results, which were submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesović, on 22 March 2018. Does MP Srdjan Nogo want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the Republic elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does MP Srdjan Nogo want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the event during the 2017 election process, from the day of the call of presidential elections until the day of publication of early results of elections processed to 99.9% of polling stations, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesovic on 20 April 2017. Does MP Srdjan Nogo want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33587	And this is one of the laws that aims to make us a fairer and more social distribution, but also a regional distribution. Therefore, it implies that the tax administration is also adapted to the tax procedure of the future law on the investigation of the origin of the property. This is something that we all need, and it seems to me, as political options, that we are ready to join this law-making project, even if it's declarative, about the origin of the property, and that's not what we're doing. That is why I am making this proposal, that persons are obliged to submit data from Article 2 of this attitude, an informative application twice in the course of the year. Article 58 adds Article 2 which reads - the sublegislative act forms a special organisational part of the tax administration with specially trained personnel who, in co-operation with other state bodies, the MUP, the Catastre, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration, the Central Securities Register, the APR, the Treasury Administration, the Money Laundering Directorate, the processing of submitted applications, as well as applicants who have not submitted their applications. The essence of this bill is to make more effective comparisons of natural persons' assets with their reported revenues. It is clear that many in the streets of Serbia drive cars of 100,000 euros without having any tax returns on registered revenues and there are certainly many questions of our citizens – where is this money and how is it earned? I think it's necessary to put it in order, because that way, by taxing, we would raise income levels and increase at least some of that social equality. I've been giving some examples right out of this room. Many MPs have been since 1992 and, for example, by 2012, these 20 years of parliamentary term with an average salary of 500 euros, in 20 years, it is 240 months, plus 500 euros, total of the reported revenues on which the 120,000-euro tax is paid. When you compare all these revenues, from 120,000 euros in 20 years, you can compare the property of many of these people who can't justify the value of the property with the tax they paid for the revenues they reported. It is therefore important to start right from the President of the State, Prime Minister, from the MPs, from all of the most responsible for whether or not to adopt such a bill, and this is, once again, the introduction and preparation of tax administrations and harmonisations with the future law on the origin of property. Please, before we make a statement about this bill, we'll determine the quorum, since we didn't do it at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33588	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic unit. I'm setting a 10-minute break. [[After a break.]] I ask my fellow MPs to insert their parliamentary cards into the electronics units to determine the quorum. As we have determined that we have a quorum for work and decision-making, I would like to put to the vote the proposal of MP Goran Ciric to supplement the agenda. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there are no (for) four (against) two abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Bosko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović, 13 October 2017. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33590	Mr. Chairman, because of the noise, I haven't heard any of my two supplemental points have you read? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33591	Proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33592	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens who follow this session of the Serbian Assembly, there are many important topics today in Serbia, many painful existential issues, many economic and social problems, so somehow culture and the question of identity and preservation of our identity is always somehow in another plan and very often and easily forgotten. With these two additional agenda points running from the Serbian Movement Group of Dveri, we are paying attention to the public and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the importance of a culture of preservation of our national and cultural identity, and two topics are under special focus, which are issues of language and letter. Among the basic points of identity of every nation in the world are the questions of his native language and his national letter. At this first supplemental point, which is now here before you, we propose a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. In fact, we believe that the Serbian language under modern circumstances is very endangered, to manipulate itself with Serbian language, to invent new languages in the territories of the former Yugoslavia, which are actually nothing but variants of the Serbian literary language. We're coming into a situation where our language can be in some way threatened by various aliens and various newly combined expressions and various, so to speak, incursions on the sides that spoil our language. We need to draw public attention to the importance of language. We did it in this declaration at several points. First of all, we want to protect everything ever written in Serbian regardless of which letter is written, whether written in Serbia, in the former Yugoslav republics, in the region or in the diaspora. So everything that has been created in Serbian is part of Serbian literary heritage, and we need to keep that in mind as well. On the other hand, it is extremely important for us to care for the preservation of Serbian language in the diaspora, to take care of additional schools, because one of the biggest problems of the Serbian people in the diaspora is assimilation and loss of identity, and among them the biggest problem of language loss. So the Serbian state, as the queen of all Serbs living in the region and dissipating, must worry about preserving their national identity and, above all, the preservation of their language. Finally, something we have long proposed, here is also a proposal for the minister of culture, to form a home for the Serbian diaspora in Belgrade. To preserve everything that Serbian political emigration has done since 1945 and the diaspora in general, and to return and belong again to the cultural mildness of the Serb people in general. So that's what our message is, to keep the Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33593	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Bosko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović, 13 October 2017. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33594	Thank you, Chairman. Here, dear fellow Members of the people of one topic that I am truly deeply convinced that there is no single reason for us all to disappear together in the defense of the Serbian national Cyrillic letter. This is not a topic of government or opposition, this is not a topic for our political upheavals and conflicts, we have enough other topics, it is the order that once on a subject of exceptional national importance and unite and bring together certain views. I have no problem withdrawing this proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic, that the ruling majority propose the same or similar or whatever proposal we agree on to protect Cyrillic and that we vote for it as a proposal from the ruling majority. So I don't think I'm dealing with a monopoly on Cyrillic or any other topic of great national importance. Please pay attention to this proposal to put it on the agenda with common forces, that if we need to amend something in the text of this Cyrillic protection declaration and stand unanimously in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to protect our national letter. Cyrillic disappears, Cyrillic is lost, Cyrillic becomes a minority letter in Serbia, Cyrillic is unprotected, and we must protect it and that Cyrillic protection must leave the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We need to change the law on official use of language and letters. We need to introduce criminal provisions for those who don't respect Cyrillic. We have to put all the public inscriptions on Cyrillic, we have to learn in some way that from modern information technology they can and how to be on Cyrillic, that Cyrillic is the most perfect letter of the world, that graphic is one of the world's most beautiful letters, that it is fully in line with modern information technologies and that we motivate from the state summit all publishers, all cultural workers, all institutions, all media, to broadcast their programs, their releases on Cyrillic, respecting naturally national minorities, their language and their letter, but we have to respect ourselves and our own language and our own letter. And I really don't see any reason, I can beg you, I can beg you, I can beg you, say what we have to do, but the Cyrillic is at risk in Serbia, and we are the only ones from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who can stop it from falling apart. There is no one else to protect it, and in this sense all Serbian literary treasures, which were created not only on Cyrillic but also on Latina should be in the corpus of the history of Serbian literature, to be preserved, because it happens to us that in various world forums literary works created on Latina are treated as Croatian cultural heritage and as someone else's cultural heritage actually belong to Serbian literary and cultural heritage. This is a topic that only we here can launch and I urge you to support this declaration to come to the agenda, so that we can change together...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33595	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one with abstentions—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, to identify the facts and circumstances relating to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we voted just now for Bosko Obradovic's proposal, which he would say we are voting on. When a Serbian language professor asks us to vote rather than vote, it is a big issue of protection of Serbian language and Cyrillic. A professor of Serbian should not say where you run, Ljotic should not call Ljotic. So my proposal is to form a survey board, given that this country is very sensitive to the loss of territory. If anyone co-operates with a Bulgarian organisation called Atak, who is looking for Santefan Bulgaria. If anyone cooperates with them, they visit each other, and they seek Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad, Vranje, Piroth, then it is a big question of patriotism for the MPs and parties who co-operate with such an organization. If we assume that this organisation that is the heritage of Ljotic, how are those of Ljotic's values, then we must be extremely careful. This country has no right to this kind of action. So, if we take Pernar, whose grandfather was here, not in this House, but in another assembly, he asks how much Serbian blood cost. If someone is working with such organisations, we must have a survey board to examine the reasons why someone is working with a Bulgarian organisation seeking Serbian territory, why someone is working with Pernar who is immediately marching with Ustashas in Zagreb the next day and if we assume that someone and this party welcomes the neo-Nazi organisation "Alternative for Germany", we as a country that was anti-fascist, we as a country that primarily appreciates freedom, independence and sovereignty must be very careful and examine under what circumstances political parties and organisations in Serbia co-operate with organisations that are non-Nazi policy, fascist, Ustasy, pillows that require Bulgaria to belong to Serbian territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33597	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the liquidation of the "Such Insurance" procedure, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2017. Does MP Veroljub Stevanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 July 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2017. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? (No) He's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Vesna Marijanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Vesna Marijanović want a word? (No) She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who submitted their lives to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? No, I don't. She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP LJupka Mihajlovska, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, submitted to the National Assembly by the National MPs Tatjana Macur and LJupka Mihajlovska on 13 February 2018. Does the People's Messenger Ljupka Mihailovska want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on financial support for the family with children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice" launched in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic on 5 March 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law Proposing Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does MP Miladin Ševarlic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Regulation of the way pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Does the MP Bozidar Delic want a word? Here you go, colleague Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33598	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, ended three years after the law was applied on 1 November 2017. I got an answer from the government, which is why this law I've proposed doesn't get passed. The answer says that the basic reason he defined for the adoption of this law remains justified, which is the need to ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system and thus the sustainability of the Serbian budget. It also said in the response that there was no dispute that there was a particularly important public interest in the application of the law that was passed here, it said, in a particularly disturbing situation to address the negative effects of the financial crisis by means of measures. Furthermore, it is said that the law was introduced exclusively with the aim of overcoming, i.e. to eliminate the negative consequences of the financial crisis and that with limited application, while there are important reasons and justified public interest in its application. Gentlemen, if the government had passed such a law on November 1st, that 600m euros, the amount of contribution, according to this law, to pensioners of the crisis in the Republic of Serbia, would have been a gift, a large gift or a loan from pensioners to the Republic of Serbia. However, following a speech in this Prime Minister's Assembly, speech by some ministers, pensioners, and they say that I did so according to the information provided by the Union of Military Pensioners, about 700,000, and not 400,000 as I said last time, they filed lawsuits. According to this data, an eye has been launched to date, i.e. between 200 and 220,000 lawsuits. It all goes well, even according to their estimates only in the coming year will the Constitutional Court, and then the court in Strasbourg. I am surprised that the Serbian government could not think long-term and adopt this law in time, because when the courts solve this problem it will only be an unprecedented crisis and only then will the budget of the Republic of Serbia be in trouble. If everyone's saying that we're in a surplus, that the budget is being filled regularly, then there's really no need for this law to remain in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33599	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 133 MPs for – 10. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Does the MP Bozidar Delic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33600	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on 16 November of last year, I submitted a proposal for this law, 27 years of age, waiting for Serbia to pass this law. All countries in the environment, including the quasi state of Kosovo, have passed a law on fighters. Why is this law not passed in the Republic of Serbia? Are we ashamed of our fighters, and there are them in this room, I mean quite a number. We here often tell one another in the congregation that the dignity of the congregation is at stake. Fighters of the 1990s, from 1991 to 1999, gentlemen, have defended the dignity of the Republic of Serbia, this law requires us to defend their dignity. If we don't adopt this proposal, I'm not saying it has to be my proposal, but the government would have to come out quickly with some of its proposals. It is sent, gentlemen, a very negative image and message to all present and future, don't give God to fighters if there is a need to defend the Republic of Serbia. What to think of future generations when such a relationship between the government and the state towards those who owed their debt to the country when it was due in a dignified way. Hundreds of dead fighters, thousands of disabled people looking at us here in this assembly and watching you gentlemen vote. I can always look into every fighter's eyes, because while I'm in this assembly and until this law is passed for every session I will propose it, and you gentlemen vote on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33601	Thank you, colleague Delic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – 15, against – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances and to look into the situation in which the project "Belgrade on Water" was currently in place, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 26 February 2018. Does National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The "Belgrade on Water" project is a project that has been followed by numerous controversys, and since its very beginning it has been argued by the professional Serbian public, primarily by architects and urbanists. We would like to establish some of the facts that the Serbian public is burdening because it is completely unclear who is the real investor of the "Belgrade on Water" project. Here, we've got two towers that are almost ready, and there's a sale of angry apartments, and there's still no telling who the investor is. Is it a domestic investor, the Republic of Serbia, is it Igalhills or is it someone third? Of course, various stories spread that the money from the "Belgrade on Water" project is also linked to Serbia's listing of FATF, a list of countries for money laundering. We also do not know which business bank is guaranteed that the "Belgrade on Water" project will be successfully brought to an end. Otherwise, it's normal for some projects to be done, if the projects are particularly large to know which bank is guaranteed for the project. We don't even know it today. A water project was adopted in April 2015 and a lex specialis that singled out the property in the city of Belgrade and declared the project of exceptional national importance. We are interested in how it is possible for a housing and commercial complex to get that status of a national significant project, because we know well what national significant projects are and that they are airports, mines, highways, and cannot possibly be one such project. Also, at what stage is the project "Belgrade on Water" currently in place, and how long is the total phase foreseen for "Belgrade on Water" to be realised as a project? So, what is it and whether there is a responsibility of the competent republican and city authorities for the current state in which the "Belgrade on Water" project is located, as it also tells that the daily water pump is spent 15,000 euros on the pumps alone. That is why we think it would be necessary, because the government will change, and yet this is the continuity that this survey committee is forming.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33603	Thank you, colleagues. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and on "The Storm", which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hold in my hands a list of the Veritas of the dead and the missing in the Storm. So, a total of 1,852 people died and went missing. Of which 930 are buried, and 922 are still wanted. They're missing. Probably executed. Of the 1,852 victims, 908 were over 60 years old. So they couldn't possibly have been military bonds. Of the 1,852 victims, 543 were women, nine children, which means they weren't military bonds either. Buried 930, 922 people are still looking for relatives. Mrs. Raskovic Ivić is this great crime, which they did not include in their declaration of genocide in Croatia, they skipped this, for genocide claims that only what happened during World War II, they did not put this in their declaration, what they are asking us to adopt here. Mrs. Raskovic called the 1,852 victims a humanitarian action. So, in statements to the media in Croatia, as far as I know, she said that these 1,852 victims, of which 908 old people, over 60 years old, 543 women and nine children, were the humanitarian action of the Croatian army. Also, this assembly adopted a declaration of crime in Srebrenica, she crossed it even though it was and now it's a folk MP, she has crossed it into genocide. It is her right to consider what she will, but as an MP of the National Assembly, she is bound by the documents of the National Assembly. Obviously, her statements have caused damage and therefore I want the committee of inquiry to deal with these statements, since such statements may have immeasurable damage from this state. I don't know anymore if the EU lady is where the Croats are? Is she for the EU or is Vuk Jeremic against the EU? I can't know that. I don't know if she's for Crimea or Rome anymore, since this country has paid her five thousand euros to represent this country, and she's been making these statements, and I think we need to have a survey board to entertain these statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33605	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote is 10, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP Kosovo and Metohija submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, Dr. Dragan Vesović, Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristić, 15 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected citizens of Serbia, respected colleagues and colleagues, to explain briefly our proposal. Starting, therefore, from the state tradition of the Serbian people and its historical rights to the AP of Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, given that Kosovo and Metohija are historic states and cultural and spiritual, so the headquarters of the Republic of Serbia and citizens, since after the illegal and illegal aggression of NATO to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as the legal predecessors of the Republic of Serbia and the occupation of the work of its state territory, the highest national and state objective of the Republic of Serbia is to physically return its state bodies and institutions to the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, especially seeing the fact that without the physical return of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija is not possible to implement. We underline this, a constitutional standard on a single legal order that applies in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Building on the binding content of international acts and this protocol on the distinction between the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, i.e. the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Republic of Albania, and the Kingdom of Albania since 1926. Then, the UN Charter, the Helsinki Final Act, Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, as well as the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest general legal act in the internal legal order, especially the following spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but respecting the principled and unequivocal position of the SPC, that the state of this Serbia must never give its consent to the alienation of Kosovo and Metohija, because what is taken by force, it comes back, but what it worships to someone, it is always lost. I will only mention some of the points proposed that should contain that resolution if we adopt it. The Republic of Serbia, under one, in accordance with international public law, the Constitution and the will of citizens is not recognised and will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence by illegal authorities in Pristina. Under two, the AP Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part and an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently under occupation, which should be notified to the international public without delay. No citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who is in public office, has the right to sign a binding document that will alienate the AP of Kosovo and Metohija as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to suspend any kind of communication and negotiations in Brussels with representatives of Pristina's illegal authorities. The government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to annul all written and oral agreements reached in Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33607	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstention – has voted 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – the proposal for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović, 16 October 2017. Does the MP, Zoran Radojićic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33608	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the fact that, according to the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and all citizens who live in it, taking into account the fact that through our history, numerous non-Serb national forces have stood out for their courage and sacrifice in the wars that we have waged, defensively, especially remembering that in the Balkan wars, the First World War, the Second World War, as well as in the country's defence wars, which were waged from 1991 to 1999, by warring and sacrificing for Serbia many non-Serb nationalities, we suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia bring a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia, non-Serbian nationalities killed for the country. Under one, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expressed special respect and honour for all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives fighting wars on the part of the Serbian state. Two, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia calls on the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia to honor these heroes by raising monuments that would mark their contribution to the fight for freedom of our common country. Under three, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposes to make a complete list of all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives in the country wars, so that their names are not forgotten. Under four, the National Assembly proposes to set a special day for the protectors of country and state unity, as a state holiday, marking the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. As regards the reasons for the adoption of this declaration, therefore, as the Republic of Serbia is defined as a state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, taking into account the centuries-old multiethnicity and multiculturality of the area in which, together with the Serb peoples living, members and other peoples who, in accordance with time and historical circumstances, shared fate with the Serb people, the declaration, we would particularly like to draw attention to the domestic but also to the world public on the absence of every type of xenophobia, intolerance, chauvinism and national intolerance of the majority Serb people towards non-Serb people, through examples and honor to numerous members of the Serbian army of non-Serbic nationalities who have been prominent throughout history in their courage and sacrifice in wars to free themselves from the occupation. It is evident that in the Balkan wars, World War I and World War II, as well as in the country's defence wars, many of them have made great sacrifices. We believe that adopting a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationality is a first step in paying attention to this topic, so that through the legislative activities of the National Assembly and the efforts of the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, a special state holiday called the Day of Protector of Motherland and State Unity, which would mark the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33609	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 135. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Ivan Kostic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 September 2017. Does Mr. Ivan Kostic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33610	Dear MPs, citizens of Serbia, Serbs from the secession and the region, the Dvora movement submitted a declaration seven months ago on the protection of Serbs from the dispersion and the region, because we are aware that currently at national level, the problems of Serbs in the region and dissipation are not being dealt with systematically. Of course there are movements and of course there are changes by state institutions in terms of helping individuals from the region. However, we think it is insufficient, because the Serbian people, after Yugoslavia's collapse, are currently one of the most endangered people in modern Europe. This isn't just a matter of language and identity. I would point out that for six, seven months we have been waiting for a declaration that many statesmen and leaders of this country have announced will be adopted, especially as it has been said not to adopt a declaration on the protection of Serbs in the region, but an annex to the special relations agreement, ultimately, between Republika Srpska and Serbia. I ask the question - what about the other representatives of our people who live in the countries of the former Yugoslavia? We are witnessing that even the president of the Republic of Serbia publicly called several months ago on the Slovenian prime minister that Serbs today do not have the status of national minority in Slovenia. So, what's the point of this declaration? The point of the declaration is that the problems of Serbs in the region, by the people who run this country, are not solved in a selective way, but resolved systematically. We constantly have outflows of patriotism at certain times when thesprski people are at risk in the countries of the region. However, here has been two years since any amendments, no draft law in this assembly has been adopted in order to improve the position of the Serb people in the region. That is why we believe that a national strategy is necessary on the position of Serbs in the region and dissipation, because, as we know, one third of Serbs live outside the borders of the Serbian state. So here I appeal to all the MPs who are dealing with issues of the economy, the issues of the economy, to tackle a little bit the issues of the investment of our diaspora, because here so far, in the past two years, no concrete proposal for the tax relief of our people living in the diaspora has been made by the government or by the ruling coalition. Therefore, once again, we believe that this declaration is necessary, that it is necessary to improve the position of the Serbian people in the region and the dispersion by the state institutions, by the people who run this country, and that, as family policy once came to the agenda of the government, we hope that this issue will also come to discuss it here in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33611	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Ivan Kostic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda - Proposal for a resolution on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does Mr. Ivan Kostic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33612	Dear People's MPs, I believe that each of you in your extended family has someone who has suffered or whose ancestors died in concentration camps in the Independent State of Croatia. Today, several days after marking 73 years of men and martyrs from Jasenovac, who broke through the wire and left the camp on their own, and should be stressed here in front of Serbian citizens that Jasenovac was released three months after Auschwitz. So much for the state of consciousness of the people who led the country, and unfortunately, it's not like that today, but a lot of things have to change about this. We witnessed on January 27th this year what was the reaction of people, Croatian citizens, Croatian leaders, German media, German executives on the exhibition held this year at St. Sava in New York. Unfortunately, several days were due for state leaders leading Serbia to address the issue. This was an extremely important thing that happened. I believe it is a great victory for our diplomacy, but it should still be stressed that the exhibition on Jasenovac, held at the UN in New York, is not the systematic work of all state institutions within an integrated project. I should also like to publicly commend Ambassador Ljiljana Niksic of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who, on her own initiative, managed to bring this project to the UN, although there were major obstructions by Croatia, by Germany and their representatives in the UN: I also want to say that what is happening today in Croatia and that we have had the opportunity to see in the past few days is nothing new and that nothing will change in relation to Serbia and Croatia until such matters are put on the agenda and until these things as one binding legal document are adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I can say that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as our unconscious politicians, has been the most inconclusive institution in the Serbian state in the last 30 years. Each institution and SPC and SANU marked and correctly highlighted what happened 73 years ago in Jasenovac. We have today that the Serbian Parliament first mentioned Jasenovac's theme two years ago here at public hearing. I'm just going to point out here how important this topic is and how many people who are dealing with this topic have recognized the problem that is now emerging in Europe. Just one second, please, the chairman, on 17 November 2016, the UN Human Rights Committee adopted on a proposal from Russia a declaration of neo-Naziism and neo-fascism in Ukraine, and we cannot do here in the Assembly what happened to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33613	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenković on 8 November 2017. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33614	Thank you, Chairman. I had just hoped that, not you, but the previous chairman, would call me in a series of names and names, but unfortunately this did not happen and unfortunately continues with the practice of disrespecting the order announced in the electronic parliament that is available to all of us. I propose that the agenda of the Assembly be complemented by this amendment and the addition of the law, for the simple reason why this law was discussed in November 2016 in a united debate. Since then, it has really been long enough for us to realize that this law does not have adequate application, by having a growing number of unfortunately murdered women in Serbia and a large number of those who, fortunately, have managed to avoid such tragic endings. With that in mind, I think it is very important to return to the assembly procedure again, that the MPs discuss this law again, so that some of the changes that I have suggested can be considered once again. So it is necessary that every district police station has an obligation to have at least one trained police officer for cases of domestic violence. This change is necessary because even today, after a year of entry into force of this law, we have a situation in which, I say, some police officers are extremely prone to abusers and are trying to convince the victims of domestic violence that the situation, as it is, is good and that they are protected. However, they are dissuaded by the fact that violence continues. It seems to me that by uniting such discussions, especially about laws that don't really have some, they shouldn't cause political conflicts within and between parties, they simply shouldn't come into a united debate in the Serbian Parliament. With that in mind, I urge you to vote for this law to come back to the Assembly's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33615	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for six, and there is no one who has voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2017. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33616	Thank you, Chairman. I call on MPs to help us form a survey committee in the Assembly to examine donations addressed to the Presidential campaign by Alexander Vukic in 2017. It is almost 7,000 identical donations of 40,000 dinars. Therefore, it is extremely unusual for so many citizens to decide on their own initiative to pay the same amount at the expense of a campaign. There are serious claims that this money was delivered directly to the depositors or through some other illegal flows. It's not a small amount of money. So it's more than 2.2m euros. It seems to me that no one should be murking in front of such data, especially the Anti-Corruption Agency, which denied us the answers to where this serious amount of money came from. So, I propose that the Assembly set up a polling committee to examine how these amounts of money were delivered to Serbian citizens, among whom there is, unfortunately, a user of social assistance. So let's see how money was delivered to them and how they managed to pay the same amount individually, or about 7,000 citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33617	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill and the bill of the next law, I hope to explain it immediately after this, are in fact something that arises from one another and that should be one great injustice, which has been done to the oldest population of our country, to those who have built most of their lives into the prosperity of this country, to remove. The first law speaks of the removal of an illogicality created by the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act when adopted and the law that I will later explain, when the number of members of the Management Board of this organisation is 21 down to seven members. It wouldn't be any problem if the schedule of such members was not at least, slightly said, odd. Namely, of the seven members of the Governing Board, four members are appointed by the Government, one member is from the insurance order on a proposal from the representative union, one member is from the employers' order on a proposal from the representative association of employers established at the level of the Republic, one member is from the rights of users, or one member is a pensioner. So, in order for this law, which I will explain later, to be able to adopt and do great damage as such, which I will talk about later, the Governing Board then had to change in this way so that the government would have maximum interference and maximum control. Of the seven members, four from the government and it is clear that it is the majority and that any decision on such a board of directors can be made as the government wishes. What is it that the Dvori suggested? We didn't stay for that story about having 21 board members. Maybe it's a lot of members, maybe it's a ruse, but we did go to the story that the Board of Directors has 15 members, where five members would be from the rights users, so pensioners, five members from the insurance line on a proposal from the representative unions established at the level of the Republic, two members from the ranks of employers, one member from the competent ministry and one member from the Fund. In this way, we believe, the unnecessary influence of the government would be reduced, and the Governing Board would be given an adequate way to protect the interests of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33619	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Arrangement of Pension Payments, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33620	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the very name of the bill, you can see all the necessity of passing such a law and all the illogicality of its adoption, not this law, but the law that we want to change the moment it was passed. So, it's about the draft law on the suspension of the Interim Law, undermining temporary, governing how pensions are paid. Why am I undermining the word temporarily? This law was passed, believe it or not, on 28 October 2014. From then on to this day, it's been 40 months, three and a half full years, we have some sort of temporary condition. If we know the way pensions were reduced, and that was linearly dependent on the amount of pension income, we get a prime number that those who have reduced pensions by ten thousand were taken, believe it or not, 400 thousand dinars in this period. The truth is, we'll say that in the same period, in terms of some two single aids, five thousand dinars were granted to pensioners. Now look, and the citizens of Serbia need to look at the relationship between tens of thousands and let's say 400,000 dinars. It's not this proposal to stop this kind of pension payment that the Dwarves themselves came up with. The court submitted the proposal in co-operation with many organisations, trade unions and pensioners' associations how, to call it, civil and military. What is an even bigger problem here is that this kind of behavior of the authorities on the opposition's persistent proposal, which comes in different forms from different sides, is one flagrant disinterest. Now it's not clear to me that yesterday we had a statement from the president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, that our budget was partly problematic in the first three months, and that the situation is absolutely peaceful by the end of the year. The prime minister said about a month ago from this pay phone in the assembly that our budget had been consolidated. So we have money. Now I ask the question, if we have money, and we don't want this law to be abolished, do we disrespect or do we not trust what the president of the state and the prime minister, whom the same majority has set up and supported, or do we not want a proposal that is meaningful and reasonable to support because it is proposed by the opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33621	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of families in Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Master Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesovic, 17 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33622	I thank the chairman. I believe you will agree with me that a family based on a marriage union of men and women is a fundamental and natural unit of our society. As such, it must have the support of all of us, it must be beyond any ideology of any type, beyond religious issues or state order. It is simply a basis that depends on both our national security and our national continuity. Depopulation represents our biggest problem, because family, natural family, as such is our greatest resource. The state of Serbia does not have more resources than the family and therefore the survival and position of the family depends on the country's national survival. I would point out that it is also an economic unit of our society, because it provides sustainable development and progress in this country. We, of course, as the only party in Serbia who is constantly dealing with family problems and has permanent solutions to the short, medium and long-term position of the family, have proposed one declaration containing everything that would make this society and the state of Serbia at least declareably a friend of the family. I am truly sorry that fellow MPs of the majority, even the government itself, did not take the opportunity to say, at least declare that they really cared about the family. In this way, both in our media and in politicians’ appearances, everyone is somehow ashamed to mention the marriage and marriage community and the importance of raising children in a healthy family in a good marriage. After six months, we received the government's opinion that this declaration should not be adopted. It informs us that they have reformed, that they have changed the earlier national strategy to encourage birth, and I, for example, stress in these reforms, in the national strategy for stimulating birth, have found marginalized groups living in institutions, migrants, asylum women and persons living with HIV infection. They also inform us that they have formed a Board of Demography, led by Mrs. Ana Brnabic, which, you will admit, really sounds like an unsalted joke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33623	I thank my colleague Janjušević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marija Janjušević and Bosko Obradović, 23 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33624	I thank the chairman. I proposed that we fix the existing Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which was adopted in 2009, primarily under pressure from NGOs and the EU, therefore, under the EU directive. Earlier problems highlighted by Roma, which pointed out people with disabilities and our children's problems were not enough reason to pass the Law on the ban on discrimination, but were NGOs. In order to prevent the abuse of this law and persecution of non-insects, I have suggested that it be complemented and amended, and as proof that there is a concern that abuse will be, above all, we have frequent visits by Mr Soros to our President of the Republic, and there is no better example than today's text in "Politica", in which Branko Jankovic says that he has homophobic content in his textbooks, and all of this on the complaint of the Lesbian Rights Organization "Labris". What are unacceptable content? The promiscuity and bisexuality are real risk factors for women’s health, and the same textbook states that sexually transmitted diseases generally occur in groups with risk-related behaviours such as intravenous drug users, homosexuals and bisexuals. For the fourth class of medical school, the book “Intervene Diseases with Care” states that Hepatitis B can most often be given to married partners of infected persons, sexually promiscuous persons, especially homosexuals. It also states that once homosexuality was placed in a disorder of sex drive, but today the attitude toward it is more tolerated in many countries, probably because in many cases homosexuality is innate, and this phenomenon is increasingly treated as a variation of sexual drive, which, if it does not endanger anyone, should be understood and should not be harshly condemned. So Mrs. Brankica decided that this was a discriminatory content and thus discriminated against the profession, discriminated against the writers of these textbooks in psychology, and she discriminated against our parents who agree that these contents should stand in textbooks and discriminated against our right to educate our children in the moral, religious and traditional principles that we believe are right for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33625	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated for the pre-election campaign, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been several parliamentary groups here asking to investigate the financing of political parties. They mainly came from famous donations of 40,000 dinars, according to them famous ones, these are contributions collected by the SNS. My suggestion is something different. I want us to find out how money is spent from the budget, to see expenditures in the campaign, not only to look at revenues, especially to look at the revenues of 40,000 dinars, and we don't see a donation, say Slavo Ristic, the tax inspector, the list of Sanda Raskovic Ivić of 640,000 dinars, we don't want to see it, but we want to see this from 40,000 dinars, according to a party that has the purest finances. But on the side of the income, let's see the expenses. What interests me is the expenditures of two electoral lists or two candidates for the president, Bosko Obradovic and Saša Radulovic, which is the famous coalition "Enough was – Dveri", and it turned "Enough was, enough". That's enough, they got what I said they'd be -- a rasulovic Delboy company. Now, as "rasulovic's" witnesses have split into several factions, but I am still interested in how funds from the election campaign were spent, or was it true that the funds went to fictitious jobs, so let's say, the famous NGO "never had enough" paid the companies of its MPs, who have now left them, by 800,000 dinars for so-called so-called. Clicking? So it's a mouse move, not by throwing, but by computer, so when you click one, you get 800,000 dinars, and so they invoiced funds from the election campaign. I note that these funds are not so spent fictitically, and when they are spent fictitically, Mrs Radeta, tax has been avoided, it is about money laundering and the next thing you know, that money, if it is not spent, will be returned to the state budget. It was not returned to the budget, but given to MPs who were doing fictitious work. Furthermore, candidate Dveri Bosko Obradovic has pumped 28 million, of which eight million for computer repairs, five million for electrorads, etc. That's why I'm asking the polling board to examine the expenditures, because that money would have been returned if it hadn't been so disbursed to the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33627	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 MPs for – 19. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33628	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been proposing this law on changes and additions to local self-government for two years now. It concerns one basic and elemental thing, which is how to help local self-governments to finance and scholarship students and talented students from their midst without consequences and violations of the law. So it's about harmonising the Law on Local Self-Government with the Law on Student and Student Standard. I have already offered several times to the MPs of the government or the government of the Republic of Serbia, even to the minister that they propose this law. It's a technical adjustment, but it would solve a lot of problems. The minister promised it would be a proposal from the government, but it has been several months now and I am still proposing this same law, and I urge you to put on the agenda of this session this law, because it would thus show that you care for the families of students, as well as students who are talented and who local self-government wants to scholarship. You don't want to put this law on the agenda that you don't even care how families live with students today, you don't care how much it costs to train those students. You managed to cancel free textbooks for those students, and they only interest you when you need to be your safe voice or capillary voice. The result of your inferior behavior towards students, students and their families is the data of how many of them are leaving Serbia today for a normal life. In today alone, several people, young boys, took visas and certificates to go to China. They'll watch the kids there, teach English there, and they won't stay in their country. I remind you that the intellectual resource is one of the biggest resources that one country has, like oil, like other natural wealth, like gold, but you don't understand it, and you absolutely don't care, because it goes beyond the domain of your policy-making, which is that it's good for you, to hide behind your leader, behind the lies and propaganda you've been carrying out for six years in this country, and to use all the benefits of the authorities you have at the moment and that, first of all, because you've collapsed, because you privatised the state and because you think that you're Serbia's given inheritance, that they can do whatever they want with it. You're wrong, and these young people will soon understand, as well as their families, that they don't represent citizens for you unless they're SNS voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33629	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against them, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is also an important bill that I often propose and concerns the creation of a business environment and climate for private businesses operating in Serbia, which were founded in Serbia, and does not refer to foreign investors who are far more expensive and interesting to this ruling regime. I propose that all those private entrepreneurs who, indefinitely in the current year, employ workers for the amount of paid contributions to reduce tax bases and also in those underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia are newly established companies, to virtually free themselves from paying income taxes over a period of three years. Of course, this isn't enough for your attention, you don't want to put this law on the agenda, even though you've been swearing since 2015, all the ministers of the economy, as many as there have been, and there have been many that have changed, and all of your governments, that you're going to change the whole set of laws and that you're going to make it easier for our economic operators, nothing has happened. They were all empty stories and promises. Of course, and what was praised by Minister Sertic, he shut down 500 state-owned enterprises in the Republic of Serbia in one year. The result of your economic policy today is that Serbia is at the beginning of GDP growth in the region and that is what you cannot deny, we are behind both Montenegro and Macedonia and Albania and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and all others. Also, at the level of average earnings, Serbia is at the beginning of Europe, and I must say that the average net wages in Serbia are, in order for the citizens to know, lower than in Angola, Libya in Zambia, Congo, Swaziland, Jibuti, Tanzania and other countries. With them, gentlemen, today after six years of Alexander Vukic's reign, Serbia can be compared. Also, as far as you have no ear for private businesses operating in Serbia is the fact that in Serbia today you have over 36,000 blocked public enterprises, private enterprises, in fact, with the amount of a blockade of over 2.5 billion euros. The reason for that is that you don't respect the laws and you don't return VAT to private companies when they're entitled to it, so often there's more than 30 and 40 billion debt to our business entities, because they're not really someone you care about, because they probably don't vote for SNS. Finally, the evidence of how little attention is paid to small and medium-sized enterprises is that Serbia is a country where small and medium-sized enterprises with 32% participate in the creation of GDP, and the EU average is 58%, the surrounding countries have far more than us: Bulgaria 60%, Croatia 51%, etc. So I urge you to put this law on the agenda and take at least one small step to facilitate business for economic operators in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33631	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 17 May 2017. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33632	I thank the chairman. I have submitted a proposal for the establishment of this survey committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Since the process has been quite endowed, we can see what its effects are, therefore, the situation in the media has never been worse in Serbia than it is today, the disastrous consequences of a set of media laws that you have adopted. That this is what the latest developments show, which is that Minister Vukosavljevic has proposed a new media strategy that will be completed by the end of 2017. We are already in half today, Maltena, 2018. On the other hand, yesterday we heard a statement from the Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister that a further strategy has to be put on hold, because other civil society that will deal with the work must be involved. So, you've replaced the ownership structure in the media and control with financial control, and today everyone, most of the media in Serbia, especially those in the local environment, are directly controlled by those who make up power today, which is SNS with their coalition partners. From the budget of local self-government, from the budget of public enterprises, the agencies give millions of dollars to your televisions, which you bought back to the people's money and don't allow anyone to appear on these media if anything they want to say is contrary to what the SNS stands for with its coalition partners. So, you run your propaganda through the media that you hold tight and you want to practically replace the truth with lies. You want to practically replace the truth with lies. It's something you're counting on to last another longer period of time, but I'm not sure you'll be able to keep working that way, because the truth can be hidden for a while, but it can't be hidden all the time. So it's about one theft, it's about corruption, it's about how the proposals, i.e. funding through a variety of project financing, are just imaginary competitions where the money only goes to the like media, so you've had a chance to see and how the City of Belgrade has distributed funds to finance the media, where some traditional media and agencies haven't even received a dinar, but they've received some associations that were a few months before the competition and founded and have no real contact with the media. I call on you that unless you have something to hide and if you're really safe and you're behind what you're saying, to adopt this proposal and form a committee of inquiry. Here, I accept if I am wrong and if it is proved that I was wrong to say that Minister Gasic owns a larger number, or BIA's director now, once a minister, a larger number of televisions in Serbia, that other people close to the SNS today are managing the media in Serbia, I will apologize and say that this is not true. So I'm asking you to adopt this proposal by the board of inquiry so that we can determine what's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33633	I thank my colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33634	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law refers to the obligation to establish local communities in the territories of units of local self-government and that there is a obligation to form in urban areas as well as in rural areas. Also, the second part of this law refers to that and that 80% of the property tax, which is collected from the territory of a local community, is made available to the local community, so that they can finance their projects and decide for themselves what priorities are in their environments. These are the lowest levels of government in one country, and it is certainly important that if there is, it is also possible to make sense of their existence and give them financial independence, i.e. to decentralised the functioning and financing of the needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately this bill is not something you would put on the agenda, here for more than a year and a half, as I propose, although today in the Republic of Serbia almost 90% of the local communities in Serbia are representatives of the SNS. In fact, I would like to do you a favor and suggest that you put this law on the agenda, adopt it, to facilitate your representatives who need to do their job, why they ran on the territory of the local community units. Of course, you're not comfortable with anything that has anything to do with decentralisation. Your authority and this dictatorial regime is only responding as strongly as possible and as much centralization as possible. So, all in one place, that everything from one centre of power is decided from the level of the local community to the level of the President of the Republic, and that's how it works, and that's the policy you've been implementing continuously for six years back. I must say that you have succeeded in this, but the consequences of such behaviour will be borne by citizens living in the Republic of Serbia and all institutions that you slowly destroy one by one. I therefore urge you to, since you are not already ready to change the electoral law and to talk about the way that the choice that exists today in the elections for local communities is applied to the elections for units of local self-government and the choice of MPs, then at least give it to these people who come out with their name and last name and who generally get the trust, that they can get the means to get what they promised to the citizens and achieve, rather than depending on the charity of any president of the municipality or mayor or any minister, prime minister or anyone else. In this way you will show that you really care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and therefore I call on you to put this bill on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33635	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for the three against them. 129 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33636	Thank you. By this law, I foresee and propose an increase in subsidies and premiums in agriculture and milk premiums and premiums for plant production and regression on fertilisers and diesel fuel and all that you have abolished and reduced since 2016 when you came to power. So, every campaign in these six years, there have been plenty of them, since every year you go out to some elections, your mouth is full of farmers, peasants, how you help them, how you invest in agriculture, how agriculture is a chance. Unfortunately, farmers felt on their skin the rule of the SNS with coalition partners and they can assess what they had by 2012, and what they have today. All the measures and incentives you've reduced. You didn't increase anything until this year, including the agriculture budget itself. Today, there are 630,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia. Over a million and a half people are employed in agriculture today. The largest employer in Serbia is family agricultural holdings, and you obviously don't understand it, although in 2012 when you came to power, I quote copies of the "White Paper of the SNS" programme: "Agriculture as an industrial branch for SNS is a strategic activity that attaches special importance and treatment. Citizens in Serbia must eat healthy food, and healthy food producers must improve their standard of living. The economic and political definition is that agriculture should be a strategic economic branch. The agrarian budget will be significantly increased and its height should be at least 5% of the total budget in 2012, with a minimum increase of 1% in each following year." Do you know what this budget is today? They know farmers, not five, but four percentage points. In six years, not that you didn't increase it by 1% a year, but you even reduced it. At this point, the Ministry of Agriculture owes farmers more than 10 billion incentives for subsidies not paid from last year. And I who you call here very often that he got subsidies to buy a tractor, here's to inform you that I didn't get a single dinar and you should be ashamed of yourself because you lie and deceive citizens because you're telling them how they're going to get some money, how they got I don't know how much for milk premiums, for getting machinery, for irrigation systems, and they didn't get anything, including me. Do not lie again and deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and farmers. So, agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy, but not in the way you see it, so that you give the Arabs 10,000 ha in Karadjordjevo, that in some association Borderar in Gakov, prominent SNS officials deal with the production of marijuana and other things, but give our farmers who know what to do to start agricultural production in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33637	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: three, three, three, abstentions, none, not 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcys against shareholders from the First Five-year-old system Trstenik, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 22 March 2018. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33638	Thank you, Chairman. I have tabled a proposal for the establishment of a survey board to determine the circumstances and responsibilities in connection with the introduction of bankruptcy against shareholders from the "First Five-year-old" system Trstenik and the bankruptcy procedure introduced in "First Five-year-olds". Therefore, the task of this survey committee would be to look at and identify all relevant facts, circumstances and responsibilities that preceded and lead to bankruptcy in the first five-year-olds system. It's a very eclad case that testifies to the way you're destroying the social and state property that generations have acquired before you, and this regime will be their heads. The first five-year-old survived both wars and economic crises and sanctions and various governments and various ministers, but you came to her head and your regime shut her down. This is one example that shows how a company can be shut down and thrown into bankruptcy without any reason for bankruptcy. So, the company paid salaries, had no commercial debts, had obligations only to the state as a trustee, but you came up with a brilliant solution and told the workers to volunteer for a social programme all to have a condition to introduce bankruptcy and to re-admission them to a new firm. Now there's a new company that's registered as a limited-responsibility company registered by the same directors who ran "The First Five-year-old", a very close SNS, some of whom are high-ranking SNS officials. The company later, a private firm, takes over all contracts with both bankruptcy managers and with the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, making deals and taking into account repromaterials, semi-products, finished products and at ten times the sales prices to customers who were already customers of the First Five-years, representing themselves as legal heirs to the company themselves. For the shame to be even greater, a bankruptcy judge from the King’s newly established firm admitted claims of 169,816,000 dinars to a company that was privately founded after the five - year - old’s factories went bankrupt. So, this is about serious organised crime and serious responsibility and crime prevention of the mafia and the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers and Banks and the management of the First Five-years and the Ministry and the Court and all those in this Chain who will one day be responsible for the robbery of state property and what people have acquired since 1949, and they have adopted it without any signature, with a variety of failures by bankruptcy managers, managed to steal from the citizens of Triestenik and the first five-year-olds, and to represent it as a new start and development of the Trieste economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33639	Thank you. I conclude the vote and declare, six, against seven, abstention, one, has not voted 118 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as "Savavala" on 25 April 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstavović and Zdravko Stankovic on 6 June 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33640	Today is your one small jubilee, a two-year anniversary since the Serbian state grew up with organised crime. On this day two years ago, during the cover of the night and during the election night, you allowed the rule of law to be suspended in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in one part of Belgrade, which is "Savamala" and Herzegovica Street. So, two years after that event, Serbian citizens have no answer as to who was deprived of the freedoms of the citizens who were found on that street that night, who took away their cell phones, tied them up, deprived them of their freedoms against law, who was tearing down the facilities in "Savamali", which brought down some buildings in downtown Belgrade, without us knowing it. We need to talk about the rule of law, talk about the rule of law, talk about institutions, and for two years this government of yours has failed to tell the citizens -- you, you, you, are responsible for this and that. The country's president, then prime minister, Aleksandar Vucic, said on June 8th 2016 that complete idiots from the top of Belgrade's government did so. The only thing that hasn't happened is an epilogue what happened to those complete idiots, who they are, what sanctions they'll be carrying, whether they'll be replaced. We've seen it won't. They have carried out their mandate by the end, and some of them, for one thing, are now candidates again for mayors, and some of them will be ministers, as we can see, Sinisa Mali, the finance minister, because he is competent, understood in the financial transactions related to real estate and various other things that he was known for, from privatisation and beyond. So, this committee of inquiry is necessary for you to form and remove this mark from yourself. We don't need the European Commission to honor us and the whole world that we're not able to tell who destroyed the facilities at night, who was the one who gave the police a warrant so the police don't respond to citizens' calls. Now imagine that one of you, your child, and so be it your president and great leader, Alexander Vukic, was found that night, that someone tied him up in Herzegovako, that someone called the police, and the police said to him, "I'm sorry, we can't go out in the field, you can contact the Communist police, or the communal inspection, and the communal police say we're not in charge." So much for the rule of law. So much for institutions, so much for the way you see this, you see the Republic of Serbia today. In Serbia, only today is crime, corruption flowers, hooligan and mafia flowers with the state, and that's what you can boast, all the rest of these six years you've destroyed, and Savamala is just a symbol for which the rule of Alexander Vukic and all of you will be remembered together with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33641	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: five, against one, with abstentions, one, were not voted by 125 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 24 October 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33642	In 2016, this government and this assembly assembly passed a law that took away funds from local self-government units in Serbia and practically reduced the amount of money that was left to local self-government units on the basis of the profit tax, and you relocated it to the central budget, which is the amount of over 10 billion dinars per year. So, your policy of centralization of the Republic of Serbia continues, not decentralisation of what you have at one point declared, so you realized that you would lose probably political power if institutions have power and institutions are doing their job, and then you went back to the system as much centralization as possible. Financial centralization is the most important thing through which power is being realized in one country and that is why you use your right to have a majority and that you think you can behave however you want in the country of Serbia. All towns and municipalities in Serbia have taken the money, and then during the year, with various requirements, you approve of those who are similar to or those of local self-government where elections are held in certain amounts of funds. In 2017, for example, the Government of the Republic of Serbia approved 50 million Arangelovac, 40 million Apatina, 34 million Batch, 21 million White Church municipalities, 20 million Opova municipalities, etc. to split 40m euros without criteria in Serbia on 29 December 2017, without justification to local self-government units. This also punishes those who do well and who do not complain and do not ask for help, thus destroying the system of functioning on the other hand. Because you don't want anyone to know at the beginning of the year how much money he has, but you want to raise and discipline that you're looking for certain political benefits and services from those people who run cities and municipalities, so you can give him a church and say, "Here we have now provided as SNS as much or as many millions." Do not pretend to be country gentlemen in this way, the state is being made by introducing a system and when you talk about European Commission reports, and you have praised them these days to be realistic about what these reports are actually saying, which is that Serbia is further and further away from European standards and what the EU stands for. Therefore, this law would be one step forward, towards creating a decentralised country towards introducing a system if you would like to put this bill on the agenda and abolish the scandalous law that is being passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33643	Thank you, colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: six, against seven, with abstentions, there is no vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 13 October 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention to vote – three against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 7 October 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33644	Well, when you adopted this Law two years ago on Public Sector Profits, and then we warned that this law would further strengthen party employment which was your goal, that it would endanger the economic position of public sector employees and lead to the draining and departure of professional staff from public administration in Serbia. That's what's happening today. So this also shows all the senselessness of the laws that you are adopting, and that year since the application of this law you can clearly see that its application has not produced any effect. You haven't been able to count how many employees you have in the public sector in six years. To determine how many agencies you have, how many different bodies you have established where someone receives some wages, but that's why you passed this law so that you can control those of your party soldiers who serve you for botting, who serve you when local elections are held in any municipality in Serbia, that these from neighbouring municipalities go there. So you pay them from the budget. You pay them with money from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they are employed by public enterprises, municipalities and other public sector organisations, and they are tasked with going and campaigning for any local elections. It is the abuse of the state, the abuse of state resources and the laws adopted by this Assembly and this home. Also, this law that you passed two years ago did not foresee that it included both NBS and public media services or public enterprises. So they still have any pay they want, whatever they want. Look at the salaries in the National Bank, three, four, five thousand euros each, what are the media services, what are the salaries in public enterprises. They have higher salaries than the president of the Republic, higher salaries than ministers. Now, that's demagogy and your policy, and we see that the next few days and BIA will be exempt from this system of profits and the law that you've passed, and that the director will also be able to make his own own decision about who he'll give more to, to whom he'll give less. I want to remind you, my dear colleagues, that two-thirds of Serbian citizens today receive earnings below the average of the Republic of Serbia, which you have been boasting and announcing some 500 euros since 2014, and now you have dragged yourself to 400 and that is an epochal thing. And we're still below everyone in the region, but 400 euros made it possible to pay, but that's one-third of the citizens who are currently employed in Serbia. Two-thirds has a lower salary. Salaries are on average 25,000 dinars, that's 200 euros, far less than the average you're boasting about. But you don't care, it's only important that you can through one of these laws finance your paid bots and party activists who serve you for campaigning and spreading SNS propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33645	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for seven, against seven, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on financial support for the family with children, submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 12 February 2018. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33646	Thank you. You passed a law on financial support to the family with children last year, at the end of the autumn session, together with the 2018 budget, in a united debate with 31 points, so that the law could not be properly discussed at the time, nor was the law adopted in such a way as to achieve those benefits that are expected of it. That the law does not give any effect to this and the concern, the punitive concern of the President of the Republic and the Government about how Serbia is slowly emptying itself and that you will give more quickly some hundreds and tens of thousands of women who are willing to give birth to children in Serbia and that this way you will raise the birth rate, that you will reduce the negative rate of natural society, but dear friends do not deal with it that way. They are not women of birth machines, so that Alexander Vukic sits there saying – Here, you have the first child you get 100 grand, you have the second child you get, I don't know, 12 grand a month, etc. You need to make an ambience and the bill is precisely in this sense, to create an environment for young couples, families and women to feel for themselves that it is time to give birth to children, but they feel that there is no concern from the state today, and because of that, during your government, there is a great exodus and the departure of people from Serbia on the one hand, tens of thousands of people in search of bread cover and survival running from Serbia the way of western countries, the way of Slovakia, and even the way of China, Russia and some other countries. You don't care about that, of course, because it's not your voters, your voters stay here because you pay them, you give them a kilo of flour, Zeytina, and I don't know what in campaigns, you tell them fairy tales, but those who leave aren't your electoral body, because they're people who are willing to do something in Serbia. On the other hand, negative natural growth also affects what the president of the Republic said, which is that every day Serbia loses 107 people, or that we lose a city of 35 to 40,000 people on an annual basis. That's the problem, but you remembered it too late. We have been talking for six years about what's going on in Serbia, and you have now remembered that it is another propaganda to say – Here, Vukic gives money to women. Where does he give the money? Did he get it from Dad, Grandpa, someone gave it to him and he's giving it to him from his plug? No, he gives money to Serbian citizens, and therefore the institutions and the system should function, not him as Santa Claus to share or not share. In the end, all the senselessness of this policy that you are conducting to support families is also a statement by the minister without portfolio, who says – who has no children will work for those who have children. So, when a minister can say something like that, then you need to know who's dealing with families and Natalie in Serbia today, and why are you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33647	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – eight, abstention – one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act on Excise Law, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 22 November 2016. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33648	Thank you. This law supports the introduction of a five-dollar excise duty per litre for all artificially sweetened drinks and juices, and if we have already suggested this several times, and the finance minister himself said at one point there is nothing against the fact that such excise duty is predicted and that it is a practice in other countries in the region. Unfortunately, this was not on the agenda and is likely not to be found in the next period, although it is directly related to the health of our children, prevention of the obesity of children and adults, but of course it is not enough to be on the agenda. I call on you to put this law on the agenda because the newest ones, in fact, have changed a lot of things, you've introduced an excise on coffee, let's say, but you didn't want to impose an excise on artificially sweetened drinks. Also, when you passed that last law amending the Excise Act, you weren't ready to free farmers of excise duty on diesel fuel, so now our farmers are paying the most expensive diesel in the region, and probably in Europe, and you're talking about the chance that agriculture is a chance that farmers should fight the market, they won't be able to until the state figure out how to help these people. This diesel charge, perhaps, should have been lifted before you introduced this excise. We invite you to introduce this excise on artificially sweetened drinks because it concerns human health and to lift the excise on diesel fuel for the needs of agricultural producers. In this way you will show that you are really doing something for this state of Serbia. Thank you. I ask you, Chairman, on the basis of Rule 88, to determine the quorum before the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33649	Thank you. I ask fellow MPs to insert identification cards into the electronic unit of their voting system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – 21, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 12 February 2018. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – four, with abstentions – there is no. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and in this regard the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does the MP, Marian Risticevic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard a lot of bad things about the ruling coalition of fellow Aleksic. It's the same one that offered Alexander Vukic to enter the government, yes, but he's got a bad quote. Davenport. When Vucic heard, he said – To be Minister of Agriculture or to be given to him by the Committee on Agriculture. I personally didn't mind, and when Vukic heard that his quote was Davenport, he said – Out of the question. The ambassadors are no longer handling this country. With that in mind, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not talk about it, I will talk about it later in addition to this, about Julia Jovanovic, about the company "Bos", about the Fund for Human Resources, about 55 million. I'll talk about her boss, Vuk Jeremic, a descendant. I am looking for a committee of inquiry, and I have already received a question and a response from the competent authority, that there is knowledge from that period, it is a period from 2008, that several representatives of the foreign factor have brought together two events – elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia and unilateral declaration of independence, so on. Kosovo. In doing so, they highlighted the crucial impact of the United States and the EU on the alleged alignment of the terms of these events. Namely, Vuk Jeremic is a descendant of the oil source in the village of Ježevica near Cačka, whose one flight costs 70,000 euros, which only spent 3.5m euros on flying. The wolf descendant Jeremic paid for a room in New York City, one overnight $1,500. I'd rather sleep under a New York bridge than pay for it. Vuk Jeremic, who had an allowance of 25,000 euros from the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, had a allowance of 25,000 euros. He went to the US Embassy and asked that Americans influence Kosovo Albanians not to declare independence before Boris Tadic is elected president of the Republic of Serbia twice. That's what happened. The oath was sworn by Boris Tadic on February 15th, and on February 17th, Albanians declared unilateral independence. Plus, the issue of the International Court of Justice, plus the change in resolution, has been replaced by Eulex, UE-EU. That's all the reasons why you need to set up a survey board and examine all these allegations of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33651	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 36, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Lutrija Serbia" affair, related to Gjorge Vukadinovic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about an associate of Vuk Jeremic. It is that famous public opinion researcher, who, by researching public opinion, is also a journalist and researcher and MP, writes about himself, investigates himself, evaluates himself, takes 2,400,000 from Lutrija at a time when she went down, at the time of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic's rule. Hence, it is not surprising that about Vuk Jeremic, a descendant and these descendants in the study, although they win two votes in the village of Milutovac, he has 30%, as he remembers the lottery, and he says – is that they have two or three percent, he likes to add one zero and says - Vuk Jeremic 31, and Vuk Jeremic and Aleksic have 30%. Probably based on the following facts. Namely, a certain Knezevic, who was the director of the National Employment Service in Trstenik, the father-in-law of the offspring, transferred the total Fund for Human Resources to 55m dinars with Dinkic. Purpose – fostering old faces. No face has yet been found to be nursed. And, maintenance of lawns in February of the month, 55 million dinars for the sale of fog, buying fog or already depending on what they bought. In addition, Gjorge Vukadinovic was likely to question whether the Triestenik pipeline needed gas pipeline, so he decided to do it without a construction permit, so the Boss company did it, to know who the boss is, in translation it means the boss. So it was done without a building permit, and then the supply of public facilities in Triestenik could only be obtained by one who had built a pipeline, and the one that built it without a building permit, of course, had all the advantages. So Alexic, who now came out, we all listened to him while he accused him, so Aleksic well fostered his friends for the sums that are millions. Only the Fund for Human Resources 55 million. More to tell him about the famous elections, and Vukadinovic who was investigating it says that Vuk Jeremic in his village of Milutovac, where he has six relatives, received only two votes in these last elections held in the village. So, I ask that everything Djordje Vukadinovic did, what research he did, and "Lutrija" paid for it, because "Lutrija" belongs to the state of Serbia, and that is the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they have no right to either the Vuk descendant of Jeremic, not even a little descendent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33653	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 25, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33654	This is one of those bill proposals I was talking about at the beginning, which is aimed at a more balanced regional distribution. We come from various parts of Serbia and we know that in Serbia we have different challenges and that we do not have the most just distribution in this regard. This is a law that treats something that's most obvious and something that's as easy as possible to correct. I invite you to at least think about it if you don't want to support us talking about it on the tide and accept this proposal. So when you see this map of Serbia, you see the division of the area in Serbia. Only four areas have an average salary compared to the average of the Republic of Serbia. These are these dark-marked areas. One is the southern part of the region, the other is the Belgrade area, the Junoban area and the Bora area. All other areas are below the average of the Republic of Serbia. This is a data that may be changing, but not drastically in the coming years, because when you see the wage range, where in the Belgrade area we have an average of 57,717, and that the wheat area has 35,999, Jablanic 34, spa 34, etc. Not only in southern Serbia, but also in Vojvodina. We also have a Western area, a northern area below the average of the Republic of Serbia. It's a simple suggestion. So the bill of law is that the local self-government unit belongs to the following taxes reached on its territory, but also beyond its territory. So far, the local self-government unit has been 74% of the income tax, which is paid towards the residence of the employee, and here is only a supplement, so this 74% of the income tax in relation to the employee's place of residence is maintained, but local self-government is being extended to public sector income tax. So all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are also users, but also taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia funding public services through public enterprises, health care systems, security, the military, the MUP. It's logical that where these systems are positioned, and the largest number of employees living in the largest centers, then the greatest benefits are given to these centers. It is estimated to be around 300m euros annually. In the distribution of proportional, for each population, it is 43 euros, which means that a place of 10,000 inhabitants... (President: Bringing the end, colleague. )......................................................................................................... There could be 430,000 euros in higher income in local self-government, where they could complement their budgets. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33655	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2017. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33656	This is a simple bill, and I'm sure we'll understand each other. But I'm sure you won't support this proposal. However, it is important to hear that both you and the public have insight into the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which we adopted in this Assembly, and we were also against the adoption of such a law. The proposal is simple – delete Article 86b. The simplest, but it really comes from a simple principle, which is a question of recognition of responsibility, anyone in any institution, well, of course, the institution of the National Bank of Serbia. In such a responsible place, without the logical connection of the great, enormous powers that the governor and all his associates in the National Bank have, therefore, enormous competences, there is absolutely no responsibility, and you will see and see that when I read this article 86b. which we have adopted, and the proposal is to delete that member from this law. So this member says -- the National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damage caused by the conduct of the affairs of the National Bank of Serbia, unless it is proved that they have not acted well. For the damage to the position of the 1st member, employees of that position cannot be held responsible even after the employment relationship with the National Bank of Serbia has ceased, i.e. the termination of office. The National Bank of Serbia will bear the costs of representing the person referred to in Article 1 in court and administrative proceedings in connection with the transactions under that position. The National Bank of Serbia will bear the costs of the 3rd member's position and those whose working relationship at the National Bank of Serbia has ceased. You can see for yourself that there is no such logical connection and it is the only institution between the powers these people have in this institution and the responsibility for what their jobs are. And let me remind you of what jobs are: monetary, fiscal policy, establishing and maintaining price stability, the most important things for Serbian citizens, managing foreign reserves, I will remind you that at the end of 2011, we had about 12 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, that at the end of 2016 this amounted to about nine billion and 900 million euros. So there are great responsibilities, but once again I urge you to establish adequate responsibilities for this kind of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33657	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic of the National Assembly, which a group of 32 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33658	You yourself read that 32 MPs submitted this initiative, right after the presidential elections, when the speaker of the assembly suspended the work of the Assembly during and before the presidential elections. We had a five-month break, and her explanation for the unhappiness of the Assembly was at that time that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia contributed to the general instability in the Republic of Serbia. So, suspension of work in 2017, and later in local elections, Belgrade, 2018, when the National Assembly did not work for two months, did not only with this justification for suspending work for stability in the Republic of Serbia certainly slowed the adoption of important laws on our country's path to the European Union and the reform of this country. What is also important is to say where the sources of this instability are and what is the relationship between the president of the Assembly and individual chairmans, especially with the opposition MPs. We had a few days ago and proof of how double arches refer to certain MPs of the opposition, the position or those who did not fully define their status. We saw a threat to the violence of our fellow Members and to Tomislav Zigmanov and Nenada Canka, and that there was no sanctions for him who threatened, for Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. The threats were later repeated to our fellow MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, and we saw that there was no reaction at the time. Although we were in direct transmission, although we had a meeting of the Assembly, no one was prepared to prevent the encircling of fellow Members of Parliament, Aleksandra Jerkov, with a salva of insult and threats she received from those same colleagues. There was no reaction back then. Later, in the break of the Assembly, she was threatened with threats, written on documents she had on her bench, and we asked the President of the Assembly to provide the recordings that could determine who he had given himself the right to threaten a colleague in this congregation. I think it is extremely important that many of you, those who are willing to protect your fellow Members... (President: Bring the end, counterpart Ciric. )......................................................................................................... This way they insist on delivering the footage of these cameras involved... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33659	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against, no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted by the National Assembly. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33660	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we as a club strongly condemn every insult and every threat. counterpart Ciric, adviser to Post Office for 156 thousand dinars, has already said something about threats. What does it mean when someone in their ranks writes "Vučica, Vučićevic, Risticevic, Mitrovica, have you already chosen the bandits you want to hang from? “ Did they condemn it? What does it mean when Balsa Bozovic writes "fire monkeys" to me? My parents were raised in a patriarchal manner, and I was raised in that way. I was taught that God created man. He was obviously taught by his parents that he became a monkey. I don't want to get involved in that. Today again, their member who received 27,000 euros a month spoke of it by his colleague, Pekarski, but the man wrote – again that schnauzer Risticevic mentioned me in parliament, chibe. Did you hear that someone convicted? Let's move on, Vlado Georgiev, I won't even mention it. Well, you've got the next one - I'll get Ristic's ass down on the ground so you don't go under, so three points. Did they condemn it? Of course not. What does it mean when they write to me –... I'm telling you, Marianne, all dead and alive and to you, faggot Wolf. What does that mean? Are they the ones who are disgusted by violence, did they condemn it? Their board member made an animal passport with my personal data and forged Alexander Vukic's signature. What does it mean when one of their members writes, just make sure that you don't get that one, etc. Is that when they condemn the threats? I also listened to what they said about the National Bank of Serbia. Those whose leader was selling tanks, he forgave Iraq billions of debts, etc., to sell five thousand dollars' worth of tanks, how much Kena could drink for the evening. The one who ran out of 700 armored vehicles, who destroyed the entire technique, left only eagles from the air. Those eagles couldn't fly. They flew weaker than the ones from the flag. These are members of the party of the former regime. They're saying something about the National Bank of Serbia. Well, in a year's time, you've gone to 50%. From 78 to 115 dinars. Since 2012 the NBS course has been at rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33661	You're bringing the end of your colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33662	Because the economic situation is more stable, because exports have grown. Foreign reserves are stable. You're talking, you went 50% in a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33663	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. You have no right to be a colleague of Radet's. (The Belief of Radeta throws out of town.) You have no right as the agenda is established, so we haven’t even started the session. What is this? No, no, no, The session starts when the agenda is established. Determination of the agenda. I didn't make that up by my colleague, Radet. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former rural secretary for sport and youth Marinika Tepic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. National MP Marijan Risticevic doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018; the Proposal for a Decision on the Participation of a Serbian Army member in Multinational Operations in 2018; Proposal for a Law on Military Education; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Law of the Serbian Army; Proposal for a Law on Arms and Military Equipment; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application of the Law of Serbia and other Defence in Multinational Operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia's Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia; Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda for emergency acts, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018 in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33664	I barely got the word. You're wrong, colleague Arsic, when you said I could speak on the basis of article 27. I'm asking you, what would happen if I was just before Ciric took out a bunch of lies, got up and hit his slap? Could you react according to the Rules of Procedure? So everything that happens in this room implies at any moment and the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. A moment ago, Ciric, a famous dosmania, who, neatly, as Marian would say, is receiving a serious salary from the state firm today, brought forth a bunch of false things. Nor did anyone surround that colleague of his, nor do we need to intimidate anyone in this way. We Serbian radicals act the way we think we should and we have no fear of anyone, especially not of Kiric and of that bulument around him. They have been false for days, that Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal who is absolutely not true, and let the gentlemen once take that verdict, they say they also brought it to the Assembly and handed it over and let them look at what it says there. He's not a war criminal, he didn't commit a single crime. What he promised to do to anyone who said he was a war criminal, apparently they believe. A hero sits here all day and now that none of us were in the O.R., then he comes out to say something happened to someone. Now that he's seen that I've come to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, he's left the O.R. again. Apparently, they're afraid of Shessel's threats that anyone who calls him a war criminal will get through his nose.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-24-0.u33665	My colleague Radeta, I can't really predict what any of the MPs are going to say, so I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. We'd be done with today's work and we'd be working tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
