ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30246	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am very sorry that the parties of the decomposed DOS seem to have given up the political struggle. I'm sorry about these, too. They seem to have stayed the same from the political struggle, which is being presented as a national-determined party. What I wanted first of all with this amendment is to make it clear to everyone who wants to invest in Serbia, that the door of Serbia for every investment, whether it's domestic or foreign, is open. The problem is that it seems that for the sake of cheap political interests someone does not understand what situation our economy was in four or five years ago and that it takes a lot more work and effort for our economic system to reach those standards that our citizens of Serbia would expect from the RS government. Also, here is constantly implementing one spirit that only foreign investors are encouraged by the government of Serbia, which of course is not true, but the problem is that the largest number of our domestic investors have acquired their capital by robbing privatisation during DOS authorities and all of its mutations that they experienced in the previous period. Such people who bought factories to sell property, that instead of a factory, they would not invest in the Serbian economy. So is the policy of economic leadership until 2012, that those who really wanted to help RS, and from here, they ran with their heads regardless of the economic ambience that made these same tycoons, which support the former DOS. Now, those who advocate that foreign investors do not come to Serbia would ask them one question, and they are allegedly nationally defined. Do foreign investors include Russian investment and Chinese investment? Those who were allegedly pro-European-oriented, and they had nothing to do with European politics, other than looting privatisation, which is not a European liquid, I'm also asking them whether they are against investors from EU territory? Let them decide what they want. Let them say clearly what their goals are, not that for the sake of cheap political interests they try to gain a sufficient number of votes to skip the censorship and enable themselves to survive in political life in some subsequent elections whenever they are. This survival in political life was created only by one desire, to rob something else, to corrupt something else, to close another factory, to re-deprive the financial malversions of Serbian citizens, to completely destroy some of the health of the economy. Let them say that to the citizens of Serbia already. All of us in this room were more or less involved in government. The citizens of Serbia are also measuring what is said in this Assembly, but measures and results. Based on those results that Alexander Vukic, his two governments and SNS, won a victory in Belgrade. So the DOS gentlemen are finally starting to deal with politics, not tycoon interests. As long as they deal with the interests of the tycoon, they'll be below 5%, which is censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30247	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Just one clarification to the honourable MPs. There was a mistake yesterday, we did not read this amendment to a member of the 5th colleague Arsic. The Rules of Procedure oblige us to read. There were two blinded papers, so that's an explanation. Thank you for understanding. The word is made by MP Miljan Damjanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30248	Mr. Marinkovic, you're continuing to appear practice since yesterday. A member of the 106th was injured and many other members were said to be able to speak only about the agenda point, but also the dignity of the National Assembly because the previous speaker bid again on various parties, whether they are present or not, and he spoke of the parties as being nationally not present. Of course, the national and only patriotic SRS party and its MPs are here and, you see, they work, and on the other hand, they talk about DOS tycoons. I will remind you that just the party of the previous speaker, the current regime and the minister present here has made a decision to build a monument, raises a monument to the man who was the feather of DOS and this crime and at that time Zoran Djindjic. Well, it must be determined once already whether they, of course, support the tycoons, which I absolutely think is so, because precisely by robbing the privatization of the people of that time, they managed to rehabilitate. In the past, they have just spoken in fact who he was and what Zoran Djindjic is, today they call him a reformer. The man who led the burning of the Assembly, the RTS building, and then we have on the other hand to say the Dosmanli regime that and that Dosmanli party. You must, gentlemen, set yourselves up. You are policy-makers at this time of Zoran Djindjic, mobster, tycoon, thief and criminal, and that's where we agree. You know what the Serbian people say - similar to the like.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30249	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Miljan Damjanovic: Of course. ) The injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30250	My colleague Marinkovic, I think you should have warned a colleague who was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure because he did not adhere to Article 103. Rules of Procedure. He can't be wrong, but you can. You were supposed to distract him. He spoke and quoted my speech that had nothing to do with either his party or his representatives, and whose ideology is respected and how he behaves in the congregation. You know, I have a custom when someone comes to the Parliament with a yellow shirt that's a symbol of DS, I don't really trust him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30251	Would you like the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day, colleague Arsic? No, I don't. ) The word is the Verse of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30252	You, Mr. Marinkovic, break one at a time, after each reporting you can advertise the Rules of Procedure, one at a time. Of course, Article 27, which obliges you to keep an eye on the application of the Rules of Procedure. Before I say what I just said, I now have to tell you that you had to distract Veroljub Arsic that he must not comment on how someone is dressed. Your Rules of Procedure forbids you to do personal matters. You've introduced time, theme, there's nothing to say that doesn't suit you, so now you can't even wear a shirt that suits someone. You're really acting crazy, and you should be worried about your behavior, all of you, and not just you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30253	Comrade Radeta, why are you using such terminology? I don't understand. You can say what you want, but it really isn't right, it's not in the spirit of parliamentaryism. Here, continue pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I don't think that's correct for all MPs to say they're not normal. I've never heard it here that someone said in six, seven years. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30254	Nothing you do is in the spirit of parliamentaryism. You just read the amendment to Veroljub Arsic to allow him to talk about the amendment. We wouldn't really mind it if it were your manners and we stand for such a width of the chairman, but you only apply it when it comes to power, the ruling majority. You read this amendment to Veroljub Arsic yesterday, he wasn't in the O.R., and now he's saying, "he's stuck to paper," so we're not little kids. We listen well and watch what is done here. Two days before that Mr. Mircic wasn't in the O.R. the moment you read it, he showed up after a minute, you wouldn't give him a word, you said - I read it, I can't do it again. So someone can't, someone can't. You've accidentally presided back then, as you're chairing now. So, take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, don't be shy, look at this one, though, you've been sitting with those who are almost gone now, and for all of you, look at the side to see what the consequences of the arrogant behavior and the rudeness of the congregation's majority are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30255	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30256	Mr Marinkovic, I am advertising Article 104 because I think you should have reacted when Veroljub Arsic rudely violated the dignity of the National Assembly in the way he addressed MP Miljan Damjanovic. But I am more surprised by the behaviour of SNS Vice President and Minister of Nebojja Stefanovic, who is here in the role, conditionally speaking, the guest should react, because it only harms your party, because you are here, Mr Marinkovic, as someone who allegedly has an elegant and dignified presidency, as a party representative whose President Rasim LJajic is, but Mr Stefanovic surprises me because Arsic, as the only remnant of the failed Tomislav Nikolic, is that he can behave like this. You know, if I look at what color he wears, Mr. Arsic has offended both Mrs. Markovic and Mrs. Compirović and Mrs. Barisic in some way. But he can't look at himself, because the moment Mr. Damjanovic reminded him of his political past, he blushed because he laughed. He doesn't know what he's laughing at. Because what are you... You know the old saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30257	Thank you. Of course, I suggest and I will insist that we no longer comment on shirts or wardrobes or anything else and continue with a more constructive discussion. The word is Dejan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30258	Article 27. Mr. Chairman, I don't think you're acting abnormally, but I think you've been acting the way you're not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Not that it shouldn't, Mr Marinkovic, must not at the National Assembly a National MP behave the way the previous speaker acted. It must not be insulted in the National Assembly by the former prime minister who gave his life for this country. I don't need to remind you, nor should I remind citizens who Zoran Djindjic was, and who the SRS is, everyone knows it well. In the end, respect the ruling majority whose government you support just two days ago laid a wreath on a memorial plate. We shouldn't talk about it here, but you can't take offense anymore, you mustn't let the man who gave his life for this country be insulted. You must punish such MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30259	Thank you. I will continue to insist that the debate be much, much more correct. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30260	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, let's go back a little bit on the subject. Therefore, the foreigner – an investor is obliged to comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia and, in that sense, his stay in the Republic of Serbia must be approved in accordance with the applicable regulations by the competent authorities. In this regard, state authorities, legal entities, entrepreneurs, and others need to co-operate with security holders in the Republic of Serbia and co-operation must exist on all issues that may be important for improving the general security situation. This means that they are obliged to inform security holders in the Republic of Serbia without delay if they have certain knowledge of any irregularities concerning foreigners – investors. For example, illegal stay, violation, or disrespect of other laws and violations, for example. the reputation of the land. Of course, in Serbia investors are welcome and there are more and more of them every day, but our priority is to preserve the security and respect of the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30261	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Professor Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30262	Dear Vice President, I have submitted an amendment on the obligation of the state bodies of natural and legal persons and on how they should comply with our country's laws, as well as foreign investors. Speaking of foreign investors, I have to say that we have two periods in the last 20 years when it comes to government investors. This is the first period until 2014, which is the time of the party's former regime with coalition partners led by Dragan Sutanovac, called the captivator, Dragan Gilas, known as the Điki Mafia and others, which is the time in which the state and the people are Satanised, the state humiliated, economically, industrial, infrastructureally devastated, a country where enormous unemployment has reached its 25.6% level. A country with too much responsibility, a country without hope and the faith of its citizens in its future. A country with a bad international reputation and a country with a robbery privatisation. The second period, when Alexander Vukic arrived at the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia when modernisation of the Republic of Serbia occurred, the sudden economic development in which Serbia only opened up 138km of highways in three years, 480km of highways, built 360km of local roads, rehabilitated and built 311 bridges, restored 360 schools and hospitals, built 60 and more plants. I think foreign investors have really contributed to our country's economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30263	Thank you. (Marco Djurisic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.) ) How do you think you're going to report to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure when it goes directly, you weren't in the O.R. at all. (Marco Djurisic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.) I heard everything, I know everything. You weren't absolutely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30264	Thank you, Chairman. So, the previous speaker made a very offensive statement about Mr. Dragan Sutanovac and Mr. Dragan Gilas. You didn't react to that. I got a ticket here because I was talking about Nebojsa from Belgrade. So I'm not saying she's a thief or a thief or anything else from the ruling party, and I got a warning. (Serbislav Filipovic: You are a thief, you are all thieves. And here I am now being told that I am a thief, Mr. Chairman, and you are ignoring it, and on my story about Nebojsa from Belgrade, I get a warning. Please, same archaic to everyone. If you're so brave, big, strong you have 40, 50% support for citizens, the same archaic towards all. Do not nod, but give a warning to an MP who used offensive expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30265	Thank you. Prof. Marko Atlagic spoke as always in the heat, it is part of the heat of political struggle. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Marko Djurisic gives no answer. Yes or no? You don't plead, all right. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30266	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, rule of law, respect for the law, certainly in the function of an ambience for attracting foreign investment that last year was 2.7 billion and that is part of a platform that creates economic growth, where we have both salary and pension increases and where we invested in new projects. For example, in western Serbia, we are very looking forward to a signed commercial agreement to continue the section of the Preljina-Pozega road, worth 450m euros, and that this economic policy would not have come to that section of the highway. We look forward to investing 90m euros in the dedicated industry in Uzic, the shooting ammunition factory. There are plenty more places where we invest in economic growth. I wonder if people and citizens could have believed in the elections, these Western Serbs, those who, during the time they crisscrossed billions of euros from the privatisation of the meter in the highway to western Serbia, did not invest, and could the citizens of Belgrade believe those who were unable to install underground containers that would succeed in building the subway. So they failed to install an underground container without installation, and they'll install a subway. The citizens knew who to trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30267	Thank you. On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by the MP-general, Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30268	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, by adopting this amendment in Article 8. The proposal for a law on foreigners is added to Article 4 which states that foreign investors who by their business encourage economic development and better access to financial resources apply the positions of 1 to 3 of this Article. This amendment further defines the obligations of state authorities, natural and legal persons from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and all in order to ensure better and more responsible business. State authorities, legal entities, entrepreneurs, or natural persons, shall be obliged to notify, without delay, the competent authority of a foreigner who is illegally staying or for whom there are conditions for the termination of the right to stay or permanent residence in the Republic of Serbia. The court which has reached a judicial verdict declaring the stranger guilty of a criminal offence, for which the stranger is prosecuted under official duty or responsible for the offence is obliged to notify the competent authority without delay. The Institute of Criminal Sanctions shall notify the competent authority prior to the release of a foreigner. In this way, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia will be safe and responsible for investors and all in order to ensure a positive business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30269	Thank you, colleague Jolovic. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the past few days we have had a significant debate on the set of laws among which is the Foreign Law. I have proposed an amendment to Article 8 of that law, which says that foreign investors who in their business encourage macroeconomic stability and any other financial stability should apply paragraphs 1 to 3. Serbia is an open society. The Serbian people are an open people because we probably had such a history. None of our ancestors feel like a foreigner in Greece in 2016 when they go on vacation. Neither did our ancestors in 1916. Serbia is a society that has a number of diaspora. The diaspora is certainly in one segment of diaspora that has foreign papers, foreign passports. Does this diaspora, when it comes to Serbia, do these people, when they help Serbia with their financial statements and influence the increase of social gross products by sending financial signals to Serbia in times of crisis and times easier to send, should feel like foreigners in Serbia. It's also one segment of the people concerned by this law. Serbia has an obligation to the people who invest, who help Serbia whether they are its citizens or foreigners, have a correct and clear relationship. The foreign law and all these amendments we're making are certainly on that trail.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30271	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30272	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying by Bogisic: "The greatest injustice is when one of his evil deeds has yet to benefit." "The greatest injustice is when one of his evil works has yet the benefit." Perhaps the man was psychic and thought of a party of the former regime. Now I'm going to try to describe Titus's youngest councilman. The youngest of Titus's councilmen sitting there under Cyrillic markings, who brought us a license plate, very distasteful to the Latin even though belief as the youngest of Tito's committee, got at 18 years old on the Latin. That didn't bother him. Also, given that we are engaged in investment, that I am in agriculture, that I understand agricultural policy, there are also some professors for cooperatives, and it has to do with that proverb and the saying of Bogisic. Here's the thing. The former regime's party withdrew a loan from the World Bank of 12.5m euros, with a nice 1% interest in developing livestock on the Old Mountain. The competition was in the Latin, but my colleague wasn't embarrassed to sign up. By the way, it belongs to a parliamentary group that was in the coalition with that American advisor, whom I call "Kradulović Del Boy Company". He did not mind showing up for the competition and the STAR project to take 62,000 euros for consulting services. Apparently, he wrote in 1,000 copies of a study on cooperatives that I failed to find, so I would ask all the viewers that if someone had this study that a colleague had written, that our deliveries were and that we should see if it was written on Cyrillic or Latin, but it was mostly disgusting on the EU as well. The parliamentary group is distasteful to the EU, repulsive to the Latin, but it took 62,000 euros from the STAR project, which was intended for livestock farming on the Old Mountain, but ended up in the hands of various consultants. So the greatest injustice is, when one of his evil deeds has yet to benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30273	Thank you. The word is made by MP Miljan Damjanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30274	Mr Marinkovic, members 106 and 107 have been injured. You continue to practice, you do not seem to hear that you allow the MPs to be insulted. It's not about the amendment. It's about Tito's MP. You know how, on my left are MPs DS, G 17, DOS, DSS, various groups of citizens, SPO, Bogoljub Karic, Mladjan Dinkic and all others. They're all now in a DOS group called SNS. You're letting us talk this way. The previous speaker did not take away, when he was taking money from Vojvodina. He didn't mention it for a moment. He didn't take his time in all the previous regimes he'd been in, and now he's attacking, and he's lived on, and that's why... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30275	Excuse me, colleague Damjanovic, I have to interrupt you, you do not replicate or replicate Marijana Rističević. You're talking about a previous speaker. It's okay, you've also pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you replicate and abuse. (Miljan Damjanovic: Give me back my time.) I'll give you your time back, but keep pointing only to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, as the Rules of Procedure dictates. Go ahead and sign in again so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30276	Mr. Marinkovic, just so I don't challenge the replica, I said the previous speaker, I didn't mention the name and last name, but I... Former radical, come on, calm down, it's not like this... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30277	You've been in favour of your colleague Damjanovic since this morning to establish parliamentary democracy at full capacity, one dialogue, and then you throw nothing at the MP and communicate with him, although you know you have no right under the Rules of Procedure. (Miljan Damjanovic: They get me all the time.) I'm not caused by anything? Give me back my time. ( ) Since I have to maintain order in parliament do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting for your apparition of the violation of the Rules of Procedure on my part? Thank you. I'm not really going to allow this kind of behavior, not just for you, but for anyone. Let's move on. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30278	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is getting interesting. So, Article 8, and I give you Section 103 of Section 7 and 8 of you are obliged to subtract those two minutes for the apparent abuse of the Rules of Procedure. You've allowed a replica. In that replica I am so fewly accused, but Article 8 on which I have submitted the amendment speaks of that if all domestic natural persons, organs, if they notice illegal behaviour, if someone in the investment on the Old Mountain for cattle farming takes over 62,000 euros for consulting services, even though the competition is on the Latin, I am obliged to report it to the competent authorities. That kind of amendment was and I don't think I stepped out of it. It's very interesting here. Here in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was said that I took the money in Vojvodina. So, I'm a farmer. It's true I bought a tractor. It is true even to process the country, it is true that I intend to rent the country, and as far as the tractor is concerned, I give it to the previous speaker, provided he takes the loan, repays 10,000 euros of my participation and takes over a six-month war of 2,948 euros, and in return, I have to tell him that the incentive I received did not take. I've invested in the Duke's Agricultural Development Fund. To pay, doesn't mean to take.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30279	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) You have seen for yourself that I have not allowed you or anyone else, and it is also true for Mr Damjanovic to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon to you and to the MPs, representatives of the government and citizens of the Republic of Serbia at Cyrillic. I hope there's no need to translate to Latin. At the same time, a member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. I would only like to read to you the statement by our famous academic – each occupier first forbids the Cyrillic and that there is no other reason, to preserve it, that would be enough. Academic Matija Bećkovic. I want to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that this is not the first time that you and the other chairman have allowed absolute untruths to be presented. So I've never received 60,000 euros from anyone. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30281	All right. Professor Chevarlich, I have a big request for you. You point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and replicate. That's what my colleague Damjanovic, Marijan Risticevic, did, and now you're doing it. I didn't mention anyone. So, because of all these abuses of attempts to hurt the Rules of Procedure, we move on. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 8th amendment. Please, I'm running a session and don't make a circus out of this, it really doesn't make sense, I'm trying to be intolerant to everyone and correct, but I won't allow abuses. Here you go, colleague Stojiljkovic. I pray for peace in the O.R. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30282	Thank you, Chairman. Article 8. The law on foreigners refers to the obligation of state authorities, natural and legal persons, to report to the competent authority an illegal stay or a criminal offence committed by foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. What we are in favour of these amendments submitted by my colleagues and I to this member of the law is that this provision also applies to a foreign investor. Therefore, the stranger must not stay on the territory of the Republic of Serbia without the application and the length of stay granted. If this is not met, if both approval and length are not met, it constitutes a violation of this law and of this member and is subject to criminal measures, whether by collecting fines or by forcing the foreigner away from our country. Every stranger's stay for more than 90 days in our country, more than six months, is considered illegal and constitutes a violation. Foreigners who intend to stay longer must apply for a temporary stay, stating why they plan to do so, such as, among other things, employment, study, marriage or, for example, specialisation and a number of other reasons. The Ministry of the Interior is very responsible for monitoring the movement of foreigners through our country, and entering and moving and leaving, so we can boast that we are one of the few countries through which 1.5 million migrants have gone through, without incident, to our citizens, or to our migrants and all congratulations to the Ministry on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30283	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30284	Thank you, Chairman. A lot of the members were injured. First, Article 108 is injured, i.e. I advertise Article 108(2) - due to a breach of order at the session, the President of the National Assembly may give the measure of warning, confiscation of words or distance from the session. This is all in relation to Article 107, which says that a session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, or to present facts or assessments that bring unpleasantness to the lives of others. Among other things, we have a third violation of the Rules of Procedure, because one MP had just shot here with the camera of the other MPs. The dignity of the National Assembly has been compromised. We are all offended by the words of one of the speakers that we are MPs of G-17, this insult is addressed to us, the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, that we are MPs of the Democratic Party, Mladjan Dinkic, and who knows what else he stated. These accusations and lies come from a parliamentary group that was the only one in a real, formal and official coalition with the same Democratic Party and Dragan Gilas in the city of Belgrade, for four years, in his term from 2008 to 2012. At that time, they distributed their functions beautifully on the boards of public utility companies, according to the supervisory boards, shared all that cake, and continued this co-operation years later. They are here today, both the best and only defence of Dragan Gilas in this National Assembly. That's why I think you had to react and make a minimum notice to the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30285	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) (Verica Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are. The Witch of Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30286	Article 103 allows the MP to react when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and there would be nothing disputed that you, as chairman, have possibly injured the Rules of Procedure at a time when MP Ivana Stojljkovic spoke. You're not. She was saying something about the amendment, I didn't quite understand, but it doesn't matter. Therefore, no injured Rules of Procedure during the address of counterpart Ivana Stojiljković. Then how could you give a word to this nervous man before, who jumps out of anger, how could you let him talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, when you saw him talking about something that was before Ivana Stojiljkovic's address? You had to tell him – enough, it can't, it's just that you've been suffocating my phone with something to pay attention to, but, I'm sorry, I can't break the Rules of Procedure, I'm the chairman here. You had to do it like that. Do not show in front of the general public how humblely you are serving this ruling majority. Act the same way to everyone. You forbade every MP to speak if he spoke of an injury that was not done untimely before the address of the People's Messenger. And you do it regularly when it comes to MPs who do not belong to the ruling majority. You have a serious problem in holding a session because of your incredibly biased and humble relationship with the MPs of power. If you're so afraid they'll kick you out of the coalition, then don't be afraid, they won't. You're used to it, you've exchanged everything from 2000 to today, and you'll still be relaxed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30287	Thank you for your advice, as always. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) The word has Dr Milorad Mijatovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30288	Please, the Social Democratic Party does not participate in such discussions and does not want to participate. We have clear policy, clear goals, and we never attack a single political party, or even this party that is just before...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30289	Just name a member, Professor Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30290	Article 106. Please, we won't participate in this, we don't use false, half-truths and lies. We're fighting for the concrete and clear policy we're implementing, and it seems to bother everyone. So we are absolutely behind our vice president who runs this session of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30291	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Miljan Damjanovic throws out of place. We continue to work. No more business. This has spread to a mutual dispute between political party representatives. Comrade Damjanovic, don't throw it away and don't make me apply it in full capacity, Rules of Procedure. This doesn't make sense. I beg you to behave with dignity. Let's keep working. The minister and his team are here. We expect a constructive debate on the amendments. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30292	Thank you, Your Honor. To improve Serbia and Belgrade's position on the global investment map, several laws have been passed that significantly improve the business environment. Historically, Belgrade has always sought diversity in both cultural and religious terms, as well as in creating links between the East and the West, the North and the South, which imposes the city as a centre for international business dialogue for the region and co-operation, and increasingly as a place for meeting foreign investors and making business contacts. In March 2017, several foundation stones were laid, with an investment value of over 500m euros. For decades, Belgrade has been filled with abandoned and untapped locations that represented the mockery of the city. For example, the building of the former MUP has been in the middle of the city for decades, as well as numerous abandoned factories and other well-positioned locations that have grown into weeds. Today, all these locations are attractive and are being built on a number of modern facilities, which Belgrade will be able to be proud of. One of those locations is the Sava amphitheater, which has been the ugliest part of the city for decades. Many illegal buildings, barracks, and tourniquets in which people lived unconditionally, made his mockery of the city center. Already today, this part of the city seems completely different and serves everyone with pride. The residential towers that are being built have already changed the panorama of the city, and the promenade itself has become one of the most beautiful promenades in Europe and the place of gathering of many Belgraders and tourists. In addition, works are under way on another residential facility -- a large Belgrade tower, as well as a market centre that will be the largest in the Balkans, a project called "Belgrade on Water", worth over three and a half billion euros. Also in Belgrade, there was a chain of Hilton hotels with 700m euros in investments at which the construction site was employed in some moments and over 700 of our workers. After so many years, Belgrade won its new factory in Obrenovac, in a municipality that was hit by so many floods in 2014 that no one thought it could get back on its feet so quickly. The 60m-euro investment will create 1,600 new jobs, the Meta company that has factories and production plants across Europe and Asia, is the world's leader in the turbo charger market. In addition to Obrenovac and Lazarevec, new production plants are being launched. A Turkish investor bought a Beko factory facility and will employ 1,200 people. The City Authority shall implement the objectives of sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30293	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the rules of procedure. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (Miljan Damjanovic: Hello, can't... What are you yelling at? What are you yelling at your colleague Damjanovic? I see you, what's the problem? Why are you nervous? Here is my colleague Jovanovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30294	Allow me, Mr. Marinkovic, to exercise my right which is the people's list of SRS Dr. Vojislav Seselj, in the elections. You cannot suspend the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure that regulates how the session will be held and allow me to have much more experience in it, so I can also teach you. So, for the first time, I think it's going to be advertised in this conference, and you've violated Article 105 of Section 5 that says - no one is allowed to approach the speaker until the president of the National Assembly approves it. You allowed Mr. Orlic, even though he did it without your permission, to approach the chairman's seat, to give you instructions on how to work, to stand before you as a Greek statue, and I don't want to remind you of the appearance of certain dating characters in ancient Greece, and I suppose...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30295	My colleague Jovanovic, I am in charge of order and peace in the hall and of handling this session. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: How can anyone approach? How did you give him your word? So you can point out when I do a direct breach of the Rules of Procedure. You picked up after a speech by your colleague Vlahovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I've been waiting 10 minutes. Don't wait for anything, let's move on. Thank you, I'm just asking for constructive behavior, as you've so far seemed. Milena Turk, here you go, mate. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I want to make a statement. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30296	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 8. The law on foreigners further defines the obligations of state authorities, natural and legal persons and it is very important to regulate this area and to distinguish what the rights and obligations and foreign citizens are, as well as the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to economics in the Republic of Serbia, we are witnessing that it was indeed destroyed during the rule of the earlier regimes, that giants who employed thousands of workers were the backbones of development shut down, sold into devastation or simply thrown on their knees, and there is almost no factory that has not experienced a similar fate. It has been invested in exclusively political-like municipalities while the rest of the districts have been left without investment, devastated and practically neglected. We now want to talk about even development and the rise of the economy and citizens actually know it best and know it, because in 2012, they clearly decided not to want this kind of policy anymore. The government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vucic, want to work on the development of the economy and on the recovery of our businesses, and that is indeed something that is a priority, and the citizens have certainly recognized it, because every time it was decided unequivocally said that SNS policy has no alternative. More factories mean more job workers, more revenue in the budget than taxes on earnings and more resources to invest in our infrastructure, but also all those facilities that have failed for decades and have been destroyed, and they must and are necessary to function in full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30297	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30298	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's good that citizens have a chance to look at the Serbian Parliament in direct transmissions and see who it is, to see simply where there are policies, where there are no policies, to see where there are charlatanities, where there's anxiety, where there's speculation about some past times, who's where they belong, who's what they've been doing. I'm more interested in who left what for the citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party can one day say that it has left hundreds of kilometers of roads to the citizens, that it has left factories, that it has left jobs, that it has left full cash, that it has reborn Serbia, that in Serbia, corruption is no longer part of the system, that criminals are afraid of the police, that they are afraid of the authorities. That's all the SNS has behind it as their actions, and those who tell us something and dare to report to us, so to tell us you're like this, you're ugly, you're not, it's not worth discussing, and it's good, and we should let go. Why not? Let them say whatever they want. Serbian citizens should see who's offering. They saw it in the Belgrade elections, so people and citizens assessed the policy that you and those where there is no one in these benches and everyone else. That's why there's as many of us here today, so there'll be us after some of the next parliamentary elections, and you're wondering if you'll ever be on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30299	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Studenka Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30300	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, in line with the previous amendments I have made, which talk about foreign investors, who by their business contribute to Serbia's economic development and to the use of economic potential, I would point out that last year the state of Serbia had an inflow of foreign direct investment of 2.6 billion euros. I would also point out that state support is the same for both foreign and domestic investors. In addition to all existing incentives, the state has introduced a subsidy so-called subsidisation. capital-intense projects based on modern technologies. In addition, a joint Declaration on the co-operation of the two countries in the area of modernisation of the economy was signed in Moscow late last year. The declaration highlights the importance of modernization and new technologies. Through this document, investment and new technologies are encouraged, as well as a higher placement of goods and products on the two countries' markets. It also encourages increased trade in goods and services with an emphasis on the expansion of the participation of goods with high added value and high technology products. In the context of further development of small and medium-sized enterprises, activities will focus on the development of industrial and business co-operation between the two countries. Special attention will be given to investment and investment co-operation through strengthening ties between Serbia and Russia's SMEs. Therefore, it is also working hard to connect domestic businessmen with the economies of economically developed countries. We have to invest in new technologies and modernise the economy, because for too long in Serbia no one has dealt with it. We strengthen the private sector and encourage our citizens to realise their entrepreneurial ideas and to fight for their place on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30301	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. A fellow bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30302	The President-in-Office, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, aims to further define the obligations of state authorities, natural and legal persons, so that we have proposed that in Article 8. The proposal for a law on foreigners adds Article 4 which reads – To an investor foreigner who in his business encourages economic development and greater social equality, Article 1 to 3 of this Article applies. After the end of the DOS rule, the Republic of Serbia faced the biggest and most important problem of economic and economic development seen in the lack of capital, without which key and development problems could not be solved. The one-on-one responsibility and the state on the brink of bankruptcy were the result of the rule of a criminal regime. The complexity of inherited problems has reached such a situation that the government of the Republic of Serbia urgently had to make decisive moves to stop further poverty and the collapse of the state and its citizens, in order to establish political and financial stability and create conditions for economic growth. It was precisely a high level of foreign investment that had great importance for economic recovery, economic growth, an increase in employment rates and GDP rates. Because of this, we believe it is useful for this law to define certain concepts related to foreign investors, above all because when a foreign investor realizes that he and his capital are welcome, that he is recognised by the host state and that he will be fully protected by the application of positive legal rules, and that when he encounters a favourable business atmosphere, then it is quite clear that he will invest his resources in the establishment of a company, not only in the establishment, but also in later expansion of production capacities and increasing employment. By increasing the employment of citizens, we get an increase in their standard of living, and our country becomes socially responsible for its citizens. The current republican government, unlike the governments that made up the former regimes, leads its citizens to a responsible social policy, protecting those most vulnerable, those who need help and most needed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30303	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. The People's MP received the amendment to Article 8 of the amendment. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30304	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, my amendment refers to Article 8(4), which is added and reads: "To a foreigner of investors, who by his business encourages the economic development of undeveloped municipalities, the positions of this Member of the Law apply. “ Because of the importance of this law, all obligations and rights of foreigners are precisely defined. Article 8(1) to (3) which already exists in the law defines the obligations of state authorities, natural and legal persons in respect of illegal stay, i.e. the termination of temporary stay or permanent residence of foreigners, as well as the notification to competent authorities in the event of advertising of foreigners guilty of criminal offences committed and the duty of the Institute for the exercise of criminal sanctions to notify the competent authority before letting a stranger go free. The amendment further defines the obligations of state authorities, natural and legal persons and of a foreign investor. This achieves respect for human rights and provides security and legal certainty, both for Serbian citizens and foreign citizens who enter and reside in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30305	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Laketich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30306	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, above all, this amendment and as part of this amendment, which speaks of further defining the obligations of the Serbian state and state authorities, natural and legal persons, so I would also be apostrophe of the Serbian state's stimulating measures towards not only foreign, but domestic investors. These stimulating measures are not selective, as some want to show, but these stimulating measures are universal, therefore, both domestic and foreign investors. What's significant, with regard to these stimulative measures, is that, had it not been for them, there would have been no such economic development in our country and, above all, there would be no such long-term projection of economic development. What's very important is that investors in our country are even by all means. I will quote part of the Regulation on terms and method of attracting direct investment, signed by the Serbian Development Agency, so RAS, is that direct investment is held at the same location in the local self-government unit for at least five years after the realisation of the investment project for large business entities, i.e. at least three years for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is very important. This is very important because local self-government in this way and the state of Serbia has a guaranteed period in which the investor himself will be present and perform economic activity. Because local self-government not only collects certain incomes, so not only through administrative taxis, utility taxis, property taxes, but also through various fees, which are directed towards economic operators. Also, the second condition is that the number of persons employed by the beneficiary after the realisation of the investment project is not reduced over a period of five years by large, or three years for small business entities. This is also very important, because this determines a strict time dynamic in which all those funds that the state has given in a stimulating manner, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, remain an additional amount of funds that will remain in the local self-government, but also in the republican authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30307	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Comrade Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30308	One of the important preconditions of Serbia's social and economic development is to see opportunities to exploit the vast potential of the Serbian diaspora. It is known that about two million Serbian citizens live in the diaspora. Among them are thousands and thousands of very successful businessmen and scientists, who are really eager to contribute to Serbia's further development. We need to see how to create even better opportunities and ambience for the Serbian diaspora, for successful business people to invest their capital in Serbia, for companies to create new jobs, to see opportunities for these business people to help their families further develop their family business, to see how these business people and scientific diaspora can be a kind of mediator to establish contacts with large companies around the world that would have an interest and a desire to invest in Serbia. What distinguishes our business diaspora from other investors, or foreigners, is that their goal is not just profit. Their goal is a successful, modern, rich internationally recognised Serbia and this patriotism of the Serbian diaspora, I think that in the previous period it is not used enough and we must together both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly and we MPs find a way to establish a permanent dialogue with, above all, our scientific and business diaspora, to show them our desire and our interest to come to a greater number in Serbia, to help develop Serbia and to be that bridge of permanent communication between Serbia and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30309	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30310	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I propose this amendment to add Article 8 to Article 4 which reads: "To a foreigner of investors, who by his business encourages economic development and a reduction of unemployment, the positions of the 1st to 30th of this member of the law apply." Therefore, this amendment further defines the obligation of state authorities, legal and natural persons, to notify, without delay, the competent state authority of the foreign investor who is illegally staying in the Republic of Serbia or for whom there are conditions for the termination of the right to temporary stay or permanent residence. The government of the Republic of Serbia has continued to make huge efforts to start Serbia's economy, which in previous years has been destroyed by robbery privatisations and Serbia has become a good place to invest. And in order for Serbia to become a good place to invest, miles of highways have been built in previous years, highways are still being built, and Serbia, above all, is making good legal regulations to allow foreign investors to enter Serbia easier, but also to ensure a better quality stay. But on the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia clearly and unequivocally defines sanctions for non-compliance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia by foreign investors, so that my amendment goes that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30311	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30312	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates from the Ministry, my amendment reads – Article 8. The proposal for a law on foreigners is added in paragraph 4, which reads as follows: "To an investor foreigner, who in his business encourages economic development and a reduction of social differences, the positions of the 1st to 3rd of this member of the law are applied." In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made an effort to consolidate the budget from 2012 to 2018, reduce unemployment, make a favourable labour market, and why? For attracting foreign investors. Of course, the state provides subsidies that are necessary, and a good example is the company Gruner, which, thanks to subsidies and good wishes and friendship towards the Republic of Serbia, invested 6.5m euros in a new production programme and hired 450 people. Forty-four workers, 450 families now live well. The owners were one completely devastated place with great social differences and with poor people. The trend of Gruner is to increase its capacities over the next two years, expand its production plant and employ another 50 workers. Also, in Subotica, the Continental company hired 500 workers with a tendency to expand their capacities over the next five years, their plants to 20,000 square meters and employ another 850 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30313	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30314	Thank you. The emphasis is on economic development and modernisation. Given that the MUP is in charge of implementing and implementing this law, I would point out here the results that support the situation in the MUP may be at the best level in the last few decades. As part of the modernisation of the MUP, procurement of more than 700 new cars was made only in 2017, which were then distributed by police administrations and stations throughout Serbia. Because of Serbian citizens, I would also point out for the public that new uniforms, how new equipment is being reconstructed, how the largest number of police stations in Serbia have been reconstructed, but that new helicopters have been planned, because this is something that will be applied for the first time in 40 years. Also, if we have in mind that in 2017 alone more than 700 graduate students of the Police Academy were employed, as well as members of the Centre for Fundamental Police Training, then we see in the best way in which the level in the MUP is today, and how it used to be. All of this makes it clear how important it is to modernise the MUP, because this will make the fight against crime even more effective and quality. One more thing, Chairman, tell the lady who noticed that I was nervous that I wasn't nervous. I have no reason to be nervous. I come from a party that won over 45% of citizens' support in Belgrade. It's about the historic victory of the SNS. The only one who's nervous here is your colleague in a yellow shirt, who's not here right now, who was the mayor's candidate, who barely won an invalid ticket.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30315	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30316	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in addition to such good legislative proposals as the Law on Foreigners proposed by the MUP, is a very important financial and economic stability for attracting foreign investment. I did some research last night, and I took some macroeconomic data from the Ministry of Finance's website that shows how far our country has progressed compared to what happened before 2012. So the consolidated government balance shows us that in 2008, for example, in 2008, the state was down by as many as 72 billion dinars, in 2009 it was down by minus 127 billion dinars, in 2010 minus 141 billion dinars, in 2011 minus 161 billion dinars and in 2012 minus 245 billion dinars. Already in 2016, this minus, when the SNS is in power, is 54 billion, in 2017 we have a plus of 52 billion and today the state is in plus as much as 21 billion dinars, after only three months in 2018. As for the foreign debt, in 2008, external debt was 8 billion 781m euros, in order to be 17 billion 717m euros already in 2012, or 8 billion euros higher. Today, after two years, the SNS authorities have reduced the debt by a billion and 908m euros. As for exports, which is also an indicator of the state of the economy, exports, for example, were 541m euros in 2008, and today is 179m euros. As for the difference between exports and imports, i.e. the external trade deficit with the EU, here, let's say, is a very interesting data. In 2008, the foreign trade deficit was over 4 billion euros, and today it is less than 2 billion euros or 2 billion euros. The importance of our country in world trade, too, one, here, I can show you an interesting graph. Look at that growth since 2008, look at the size of that growth. So since 2008, it has increased from 0.06 to 0.00% of our country's participation in the total trade. Look at the growth of the industry. They clearly show these charts how far our country has been going since 2008. Inflation, of course, what is more is what has been since 2008, and what is less is today when the SNS is in power and what is clearly seen from these graphs. What is also an indicator of how well we did and how we brought one good side to investment is the "Gelezzara" in Smederevo, where we have an interesting chart, which shows that in 2013, for example, the export of BIS "Gelezara" Smederevo was 30m euros. Do you know what the export is today? Over 160m euros. So, gentlemen, that's why Serbia is making unsustainable progress, will continue to advance and will have new investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30317	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30318	Thank you, Chairman. Article 8. The proposal for a law on foreigners defines the mandatory duties of state authorities, natural and legal persons if there is a violation of the law by foreigners in our country, and I have proposed an amendment to apply the same arches, i.e. procedures to foreign investors who contribute to the economic development of our country. A large number of foreigners live in the town of Nis daily for various reasons, whether business co-operation, professional co-operation, private reasons or as foreigners. The city of Nis and all five city municipalities successfully co-operate with both domestic and foreign investors, and also pay a lot of attention to projects. It is infrastructure and development projects, whether they are externally funded with and without the participation of the city. I will mention, for example, that six projects of the total value of 2.249,412 euros were implemented in 2017. It is a project of the Niš Science and Technology Park – phase 1 Student Centre for Innovative Entrepreneurship, then the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Niš House of Health, which is my house, which I am particularly proud of, one of the largest health homes in the Balkans, then the infrastructure planning of Donja Medrovo's work zone, editing and revitalization of the fortress - phase 1, reconstruction of facades in Nis –partia 1, reconstruction of the water system of Knezica-Curlina-Perutina-Belotinac. As regards the Nis Science and Technology Park project – phase 1, it is completed, and the goal of setting up and functioning the start-up centre part of Nis is to create conditions and create environments for the development of innovative start-up companies, as well as spin of teams with the potential to grow into future Niš-Techne Park residents, which encourages employment, prevent brain drains and improve engineering education. It is planned to end by 2020 and phase 2 of the Nis Scientific and Technological Park project, which refers to creating open space for the realization of the project students and teaching in the economy, creating a space for support for student and teacher entrepreneurship and creating a space for the realization of a new vision of education – academic and project dual education with close ties with local companies. The project will be completed by 2020. Also, by 2020, the third phase of this project will be completed, which concerns providing infrastructure to help innovative businesses achieve business success in the high-tech market and innovative companies receive specific equipment for service use, so that the company's initial investment is as low as possible. Of course, projects will continue intensively in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30319	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. John Palalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30320	In previous discussions, I have pointed out that the law on foreigners in an optimal way creates a normative balance between the obligation of the state to respect international standards and international contracts, but also to ensure the safety and efficiency of citizens, its institutions. Regardless of human behavior and understanding of the situation in which the migrants were in Serbia, the state must fully commit itself to respecting its own right to protect the security of citizens. It is Article 8 that refers to, it can be said, the co-operation of state authorities in the detection of perpetrators and offenders by foreign citizens, as well as the obligation of all citizens and legal entities to report crimes and offences committed. This type of co-operation is extremely necessary, as it confirms to what extent the state functions as legal, to which extent its institutions function and to what extent it can provide any security, including foreign investments that decide to invest in Serbia. The fact that in the previous period we had the lowest degree of crime in the previous decade, the fact that we had an increase in the number of prosecuted crimes, the fact that we had a large number of convictions for the crimes committed speaks to the extent that Serbia becomes an effective rule of law, a secure rule of law, to which Serbia becomes the right place to invest. This justifies and explains this inflow of permanent investment, and this justifies and confirms the interest of foreign investors to invest in Serbia. In that sense, this amendment and these solutions provided for in the law confirm the security and efficiency of the state of the Republic of Serbia and the rule of law that exists here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30321	Thank you, colleague Palalic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Birmancevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30322	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the amendment I have submitted to all that we have done in several previous days, which is to strengthen the law governing the business of foreigners in the state of Serbia and, above all, in this case, foreign investors, which is basically a law that applies equally to both sides and domestic investors, but, more importantly, is respected from the beginning to the end. When we talk about the incentives that foreigners received directly from the Republic of Serbia, these are incentives for, say, 2016 and 2017 in the amount of 130,560,000 of these 130,560,000 are very important - all 130,560,000 dinars are covered by bank guarantees by investors. There is no possibility that no euro, no invested dinar could be spent on anything other than an investment signed with the Republic of Serbia. The practice that has been in force since 2012, which is taking a percentage of 10, 20, 30%. While they were at 10%, everything was fine, however, their privatisations increased the percentage, and they managed to destroy and sell businesses, and by 100% to the country and of course to their citizens. I come from a city where their leader was nicknamed Ten percent, exactly according to what he did and what he did, and the nickname is given in Serbia by who does what, but precisely because of how they worked both in the 2012 elections and all those from 2012 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30323	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, Dr Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30324	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted to Article 8, an amendment that defines how the state should treat foreigners, but I am stressing for the eighth time, why it should be included in this concept – a foreign investor. Because in 2012 we promised Serbian citizens that we would arrange Serbia's state to detail, that we would bring good laws, and for several years we have been on the right path and we are doing it, that we will provide jobs, and we will do it, and that we will provide a favourable business environment for investment in our country, that we are on a good path to show election results and that is the support of the citizens we want and that we have, and that opposition that is not here today, however, these Twitter oppositions, who are only on Twitter, can win, but can't learn -- the greater heitate, the smaller the percentage, and that -- whoever, by stone, we win it, from election to election, the more convincing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30325	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Zoran Bojanić, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30326	The Honorable Chairman, unlike the senseless on-call prosecutors, dissatisfied with themselves and with his results, writers who opened letters to foreign ambassadors, put together a 13-point declaration in an attempt to revive something that ran over both time and people. The president of the Republic, this government, this parliamentary majority, deals with life issues, deals with the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly where this amendment is headed. Like all previous ones, the amendment deals with the issue of sustainable development and this is my attempt to support the government of the Republic of Serbia's economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia by amending this law. Also, I'm going to have to here, don't think I'm going to skip the 2030 UN Agenda again, mention another part of what this Agenda is about, and that's responsible consumption and responsible production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30327	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30328	Good day again, in the Cyrillic letter of Serbian, I hope you don't need an interpreter. If necessary, I ask the Vice President of the Assembly to hire an interpreter. I don't need a translator for those who are possibly speaking in the Latin letter in Serbian. Yesterday we had a debate all day about eight members of this law, and the day before yesterday. I don't know how many hundreds of amendments have been discussed and that, given the countless repetitions of the same text, we have lost valuable time to say anything about other laws that are being discussed in the package at this session of the Assembly, and many of the questions that should be heard about. One of these questions is certainly also the use of Cyrillic letters on registration plates marked in official use. So yesterday, I brought the plates that bothered someone, and I don't see why they bothered, which were on the latin letter with the letter "c". In the debate afterwards, I received a notice from the vice-presidents of the government and the resolute police minister that this is to be done in order to allow for a faster reading of these tables. In the meantime, I switched tables this morning, I got a "c", but I refused to receive X-label plates yesterday, because X is not a letter in the Serbian alphabet either in the Latin or Cyrillic letters. In the meantime, I switched tables this morning, I got no ccs, etc., but I refused yesterday to receive X-label plates, because X is not a letter in Serbian alphabet, either in Cyrillic or Latin. However, this morning, I also checked with a friend in Turkey last night, whether at the same time with a change in the tables that have these hooks under the name of the quote, the first two letters on the registration plates of Cupria, or whether it will be Cuba, or Cachak, and whether it will be Canada?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30329	Time, Mr. Chevarlitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30330	It's not done. Therefore, that reason does not stand, and I ask the minister to explain to the citizens, and I will try to collect signatures for the referendum... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30331	Thank you. National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30332	This is the first in a series of amendments to be accepted on this proposal for a law on foreigners. To mention once again, about 655 amendments have been submitted to this bill, and about 150 have been accepted. In most cases, there are some technical adjustments. Only a few amendments are amendments that bring some changes, less major changes. What this amendment is about is this - Article 9 paragraph 8, after the wording of the competent authority, the point is deleted and the words are added, except in so far as there are reasons set out in Article 83(3) of this Act. In fact, it is about refusing to enter when human rights safeguards stemming from the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice of the EU, or we cannot refuse to go into a human being and return him to a country where he is in danger, where he is life-threatening. So in these cases we have no obligation, or we do not deliver the person to the country from which he came. There, it was an amendment that primarily refers to the protection and respect of fundamental human rights, which is the right to life. Thank you to both the minister and the associates for agreeing that this is a matter that needs to be considered and included in the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30333	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Vujadinivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30334	Thank you, Chairman. Why is it important to define the obligation to apply all these views when it comes to a foreign investor of all these positions in Article 9? For example, Article 4 concerning the verification and collection of personal data related to them by the national authorities, of course, all of this in accordance with the regulations. I'll only tell you one example of it. A fund to subsidise new technologies in the AP Vojvodina, which worked until back, a little over a year ago. Among the fund's favorites, an foreign company, a foreign investor, you assume, and that from the Virgin Islands, from Zrenjanin, was called "Bioinsect Technologies", from the Virgin Islands. The idea was that the company was engaged in the suppression of mosquito larvae on the territory of Vojvodina. In the first instance, the company was subsidized with 31 million dinars. Of course, since the launch of the plant, there has been nothing, and then once again in 2007, they were granted a subsidy of 44 million dinars. Although, of course, this company has never hired 44 workers for the 44 million dinars, as foreseen by the contract. All that was small, so in 2011, we're still in order for it to be subsidized, but now with a much larger amount of 173 million dinars. Of course, as you can imagine, that firm never came to life. Now, what's symptomatic, that all this was happening in 2007, 2011, and companies were allocated millions at that time. Interestingly, in pre-election years. Then you can assume what he served that money for. Exactly, in order not to come into such a situation in the future, I have proposed this amendment that will apply to a foreign investor, when it comes to the law on foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30335	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30336	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 which reads in Article 9. The proposal for a law on foreigners is added to the 10th position on the foreign investor, which in its business encourages economic development and strengthening of the defence system, the positions of the 1st to 9th member of the law apply. It is the fact that the bill, Article 9, speaks about protecting the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners. Let me explain, so, no matter what foreign investors are very desirable to us, as well as foreign investments, and last time I said it was increasing, whether we wanted it or not, the possibility of unwanted situations of their possible dangerous behaviour, etc. In this regard, it is very important that in the process of deciding whether or not a foreigner can enter and reside in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of State Security Authority's opinion on the assessment of whether the entry and stay of a foreign investor poses an unacceptable security risk. Also, an assessment of the security risk can be given by an organisational unit responsible for the fight against organised crime and terrorism, thus reducing the possibility that foreigners who, for example, enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia into the country. They advocate, encourage, assist, prepare or undertake activities that threaten the constitutional arrangement and security of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30337	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30338	I thank the chairman. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 9. The proposal for a law on foreigners behind for the purpose of applying the views of this member to a foreign investor as well. The institutional framework in the area of migration monitoring consists of all relevant institutions, including the MUP. The Ministry of Interior, the Directorate of Border Police, the Department of Foreigners, is responsible for the area of legal migration, i.e. for improving activities in the area of movement and residence of foreign citizens and is responsible for implementing planned measures relating to the harmonisation of legislation in this area. In the framework of the Border Police Administration, the Department for the control of cross-border crime and regular migration and human trafficking covers the area and regular migration. As part of the Department of Foreigners, a shelter for foreigners operates, where foreigners who cannot be forced away immediately and foreigners whose identity has not been established or have no travel document. It is therefore an obligation to further strengthen institutional capacity and to provide any other support in order to implement legal solutions effectively and uniformly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30339	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30340	Thank you. Protection of the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of all other people coming, is intended to come to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, certainly being one of the priorities of the MUP. I must point out that for the first time, a strategic assessment of public security has been made for the period from 2017 to 2021, where police priorities are identified, namely priorities that concern in particular the preservation of the security and security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I must also point out the meetings held by the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, with the interior ministers of Germany and France, resulting in the formation of a working group tasked with preventing crime, preventing illegal migration and preventing fake asylum seekers. On the plan to preserve security and security, both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the foreigners, I must also praise the joint activities of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of the Army which took place in 2016 at the border crossings with Macedonia, Bulgaria and Romania. Also, I must commend the activities of the MUP, which according to the South East European Law Implementation Committee, received the first prize, along with the Hungarian police, precisely on the activities involved in curbing human trafficking. They all called for the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30341	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30342	Thank you. The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected ministers with associates, the local self-government of the town of Leskovac, headed by Mayor Goran Cvetanovic, has reduced unemployment in the last five years by 5,000 people. This trend continues, so we are expected in this year by a new factory called Jure, which expands its plant, meaning about 1,200 new jobs, operationally in 2018, "Aptiv" in the green zone opens a factory where another 2,500 new workers will be employed, operationally in this year, "Ginsi" in the adapted building of the former "Synthetics" expands production where 350 new workers will be employed, a total of 1,000 workers. The "Terastil" and "VNB Knitting" factories in Grdelica were also opened, which together employ about 200 people. We must not forget our business subjects. The other day, a megamarket was opened that now employs 30 new workers, and a mini factory is expected to be employed by about 30 workers. Autostop interiors and Leskobeks, daughter of the company, a total of 600 new workers. All of this is possible because the city bought the property of the company Jugexpress at a price of 40 million dinars, as well as the property of the “Synthetica” factory with 30 million dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 195m dinars for the adaptation of Synthetics. The town of Leskovac enjoys great trust from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the 2017 Memorandum of Cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, the Serbian government has allocated around 504 million dinars for the second phase of work at the Bogojevac Waste Water Processing plant. It's about what happened. A line of mud...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30343	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30345	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30346	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Stefanovic, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I have submitted the amendment and, like the previous amendment, I have eight, I wanted to make it important for foreigners – investors, to invest in undeveloped areas, in mountainous areas, in the development of agriculture. Now I will speak the same way, which is a great opportunity for these areas where I come from, specifically Svrljig, Babusnica, Meroshina, Gajin Han and other areas, can be invested in fruit growing, foreign investors can invest in mini-fridges, mini-dryers and thus, through investments in fruit growing, in production, in finished products, we have a great chance of taking these products out into any part of the world, in Russia, Germany, anywhere. As a MP, I will always advocate solving the problem of small municipalities and as an MP for the United Peasant Party, I will vote in favour of all the draft laws proposed by the Government, headed by Ana Brnabic and our President Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30347	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30348	Thank you, Chairman. Serbia is an open country, but faced with numerous security challenges and the role of the MUP and security services is therefore very important. Based on their reports, we had and I believe that we will have situations and a large number of foreign investors have been coming, but also coming into the country with, I would say, suspicious capital and very unhonorable intentions when it comes to investing them. Of course I don't even exempt domestic investors. In the privatisations behind us, the tycoons in Serbia robbed Serbia and thanks to the non-domestic business, Serbia was faced with huge financial and economic problems in 2012. The situation is much better now, fortunately for all of us. So this Article 9. The law on foreigners concerns the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners. Although Article 8. takes into account also the content of the amendments that I have submitted and concerns the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners, in order to assess the entry and stay in the territory of the state and that this is an unacceptable security risk and that the state of Serbia is denying the entry or residence of foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that the decision is taken by the competent authority. I still thought that in order to be precise about this member...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30349	Time. Finish your sentence, go ahead. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30350	In order to be precise about this member, that the amendment I have submitted also applies to foreigners – investors. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30351	Thank you very much. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30352	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 9. The bill and this amendment to Article 9 concern security issues of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. It is important that every potential investor, including a foreign investor, knows that those political messages that go in the direction of harassment of our public, which come from various political actors from a very vivid self-called opposition scene should not worry anyone, should not have any single investment discouraged. No, because they come from people who are politically completely irrelevant and who are deep, deep on the political margin. For example, when it comes to security issues and inappropriate political messages. In 2005, Dragan Gilas, if I'm not mistaken, upset the public with the story that a nuclear power plant will be built, imagine, in Kostolc. Then, of course, he pleaded and washed himself from that statement. However, no one should be worried about Dragan Gilas. Even though he's involved in politics today, he's in a ghastly downfall. The complete coalition around him has lost more than 130,000 votes of support in Belgrade alone in just a year, at the country's level probably do not exist above the censorship line. We should neither worry about the story of his coalition partner Jankovic, who, criticising, imagine, is an agreement that we should adopt at this session, said Serbia's security was compromised because we are giving our computer, computer systems to another state, and we have not done that in 1946. So how funny it is to say that we could give some computer systems to someone else in 1946, but that all says what politically unserious people are talking about. In addition to being politically unsuccessful, all of them together, as well as those who support them in the National Assembly and who are now kibbutzing and winning for them, are all together on this previously mentioned deep, deep political margin of the Dossova regime that only this country has been able to make saddened DOS palanka and nothing better than that. Thank you very much. (Marco Djurisic: Time! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30353	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Let me just tell the MPs who are getting that Mr. Orlic has time for a group of MPs he can use. So, he's an authorised representative, deputy head of the parliamentary group, so there's no need to throw him away and get nervous. Thank you so much for understanding and knowing the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic: He is not authorized, counterpart Obradovic is authorised. Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30354	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, foreign investors are coming to Serbia to carry out economic action that contributes significantly to the economic development and development of infrastructure in Serbia. A foreign investor must in no way be exempt from the law, i.e. that he must perform his business-legislative activities exclusively under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The foreign investor's stay in the Republic of Serbia must be approved in accordance with the applicable rules, i.e. regulations, by the competent authorities. In this respect, and in order to achieve the security of the state, citizens and their assets, coordination of the work of all security services is necessary to ensure that the verification process is carried out as fully as possible. All administrative procedures against investors shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the conduct of the general administrative procedure. Any foreign investor who has come to invest in Serbia, while respecting the law and not jeopardising the security of the Serbian state and its citizens, is always welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30355	Thank you. Marko Djurisic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30356	Thank you, Chairman. The position of Article 153 has been violated. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of the time we have to discuss in particular. In this regard, Article 3 states that authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups for the overall search have an additional time of 15 minutes for the parliamentary group, which does not count at the total time for the search in particular for the parliamentary groups. You said Ambassador Orlic used that time. As far as I am aware, and I think the Assembly also knows, the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party for this debate is Mrs. Marija Obradovic. And she's here, alive and well, sitting in the O.R. as long as she's sitting in the O.R., you can't give Mr. Orlic extra time on this basis. I ask you to conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not as you think you should or as someone else suggests you do. So you broke the Rules of Procedure, they pointed you out, and you ignored it all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30357	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Professor Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30358	Dear Vice President, I have submitted this amendment to further define the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners. How much foreign investors contribute to the overall economic improvement of our country, the best shows is that the former and current government has opened 360 schools, significantly affected by investors, affirmative dual education, introduced computerisation, enhanced security. I note that the Ministry of Interior held 24,000 lectures in primary and secondary schools. Dear Vice President, I had a complaint from the MPs that, in some ways, I had named some of the people's MPs. You know, as a man of science, that nicknames are taught by an auxiliary historical science called toponymics. I write a paper called – The nicknames of politicians as political messages to citizens. If the State Audit Authority says that one former minister, as well as the president of the former regime, damaged the budget by 260 million dinars for 2010, and published a prominent 18. Seventy-seven. In 2012, page 14 and called it, it says correctly, quote "Snap the politician's money," then I really don't have a problem with that. Also, the former defence minister, and he was president of a political party, damaged the VMA budget of the Republic of Serbia by 850,000 euros, just because he paid for an upgrade of software that cost four times more than when it was new – the State Auditing Institution report, published one prominent newspaper 13. 02. In 2013, page 4 and called it – Grab the money. So these are the political messages of citizens, the nicknames of politicians.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30359	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30360	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ministers with associates, respected colleagues, every respect for the law and the rule of law, as an important part of the investment environment. As for investment, I'll list some. For example, the NIS investment in a deep processing project in the Panchev oil refinery – 300 million, then, we have 15 projects with China, worth six billion euros, we have over 16 000 workers who employ US companies in Serbia, we have 27 thousand workers who employ German companies in Serbia. The alternative to this kind of economic policy is certainly not this latest declaration by Dragan Gilas about some kind of unification. It is not an alternative to tycoon unification, with the potential for Serbia's economic decapitation and disenfranchisement. And those 13 points of that declaration are no alternative to this economic and state policy. And you don't have to be superstitious so you know that 13 points would be baptizing for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30361	Thank you. On Article 9th of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Dr. Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Nikola Jolovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30362	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, the reason for the submission of this amendment is the need to further define all the provisions of Article 9. Proposal for a law on foreigners that promotes economic development and better access to financial resources by their business. In order to prevent crime and improve the protection of public security, the process of security risk, the entry or residence of foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Serbia can also be given by an organisational unit of the interior ministry responsible for the fight against organised crime and terrorism. There is an unacceptable risk if available data and knowledge suggest that a foreigner advocates, encourages, helps, prepare or undertakes activities that threatens the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, well protected by international law and national, regional, global security against the importance of the Republic of Serbia and the legal order. The reason for this amendment is clear to all those who respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30363	Thanks, buddy. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30364	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The law on foreigners, which I say foreign investors, or foreigners, must comply with the provisions of Article. 1-9. About, somehow, we end the debate in detail on the Foreign Law and the previous few days a key suggestion, a key comment that we could hear was, above all, the assistance that the state of Serbia gives both foreign and domestic investors. Here we are in a deep term problem, i.e. a lack of understanding of even classical economic theory, because on the same side we have criticism of the neoliberal concept of the economy, while at the same time criticising the subsidies that the state gives. It's not going to work with each other. If you're an advocate of criticizing the neoliberal economy, then you can't criticise subsidies and vice versa. The result of the government of the Republic of Serbia and these subsidies given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in a theoretical sense respect for the rules are, above all, results. When you look at the level of unemployment in Serbia, as the gross social product grows, what is the rate of inflation, if you look at how relevant international organisations raise credit ratings from BB minus to BB plus, how the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have a positive view of the economic reforms being conducted in the Republic of Serbia, then it is clear that we are on the right track. But even more about economic change and the government of the Republic of Serbia speak in the elections and satisfaction of Serbian citizens, which they have shown in the last Belgrade elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30365	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30366	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the respected doctors who are present when someone says, and this professor is going to speak Cyrillicly, then please pay attention to that. There's a document here, and I'm telling the truth. A colleague came out. Here's his signature. Take a good look. This is on the Latin. This is a request for payment of funds from the STAR project to the Ministry of Agriculture since 29.11.2011. So that's the 60,000 euros, exactly 57,351 was paid from that moment on, so he asked for the rest. Since the minister of police is present here, I ask to control this Star project, because there are very interesting beasts, which have taken huge money for the development of livestock farming on the Old Mountain. It's a matter of security from the amendment. So pay attention, it's all on the Latin. So when it comes to money, money, so no one's nasty about it, here's the signature, the stamp, here's more documents, here's 20 and everything's on the Latin. Suddenly, when you become a member of the church Orthodox organization of Titus's youngest committee, you forget both Latin and Dad and Mom, you forget everything, and then you start to swallow some of your theories. Ladies and gentlemen, we also had a boycott of the Assembly here on security. Apparently, the opposition can't say a word here. I asked for a copy and got statistics, says the opposition reported 5,742 times in this conference, which is an average of 66.76 times per MP. The government reported 3,571 times and 21.77. So the opposition spoke three times as much as the government, and on the issue of the assembly group of church Orthodox, it appeared 122 times in the Rules of Procedure or six times as many as the members of the ruling parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30367	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Ivana Stojiljković, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30368	I thank the chairman. Article 9 defines the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia against the rights of foreigners, which is why high security risks and crime prevention are being assessed. The state activates all available funds and all state mechanisms to protect the Republic of Serbia from adverse events, to a scenario we unfortunately see in previous years across Europe. Also, respected Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic has launched a number of activities to improve bilateral police co-operation with countries in the environment with the aim of fighting organised crime, illegal migration and false asylum and the result is very significant, and I would mention that the number of crimes has been reduced by 8%, which is very important information. I would also point out that for this very good international co-operation through the borderline of numerous projects and joint action of the Serbian Republic, the first and second prize of the law enforcement centre in Southeast Europe and once again all congratulations were awarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30369	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? Sonja Vlahovic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30370	Thank you, Your Honor. According to the amendment I submitted to Article 9. The bill and which reads - in Article 9. The proposal for a law is added to the position of the 10th, which is that an investor who encourages economic development, implementation, Agenda 2030 is implemented from 1st to 9th of this member of the law. According to the amendment, I have also stressed the implementation of one of the goals of sustainable development, which is the economic growth that the Serbian government is implementing. The Serbian government signed a contract with the US company NCR, which will create 1,500 more jobs in Serbia over the next three years. The value of the investment is over $400 million. The US firm NCR is a global technology corporation with a NCR service centre in Serbia. Now the US company employs 2,134 people, and we expect it to be over 3,634 and that the NCR may be the largest employer in the Republic of Serbia, foreign investors in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30371	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30372	Thank you. Imported Ministers, Amendment to Article 9. The law on foreigners speaks of the application of this member and of citizens who are willing to invest, or invest in our country. In fact, the government's strategic goal was to reduce unemployment through the opening of production facilities, which will employ a large number of workers and that is what produced the results in 2017, as around 10,000 jobs were then opened. What is the government's goal in the coming period is to attract high-tech companies that will employ highly educated people in better paid positions. The goal, of course, is to further reduce unemployment, so these incentives will be in less developed areas, where there will be investments in labour intensive industries. However, it also needs to be shifted to high-tech companies that will contribute to raising the technological level of the Serbian economy. Given that the World Bank analyses show that this incentive subsidies return very quickly to the Republic of Serbia's budget in about 14 months, there is no reason to resist this type of incentive for foreign investment. With the proper attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Economy and the preparation of the business environment, conditions have been created for such investments to continue to arrive in our country. Of course, investments related to Serbian investors and the expansion of the capacity of companies already operating and ready to employ additional labour will continue. All of this will have an impact on reducing unemployment and creating new jobs in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30373	The 9th amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30374	Thank you, Chairman. Why can certain members of the opposition not understand us, and why do they not understand the policy of strengthening investment, hiring people, opening factories, improving Serbia's citizens? They can't do that from naked selfishness, and I'll give you some concrete information. Let's say, since 2000, when they came to power, by 2012, they brought out $55 billion from Serbia, 550,000 were left out of work, and hundreds of factories closed down, robbed through privatisation, destroyed, destroyed the banking sector in Serbia, private banks almost destroyed. They brought the state and citizens of Serbia before bankruptcy. They tasked every citizen in Serbia with their throats. The Serbian People's Party had to reset the entire system completely and start over, correct everything someone did from 2000 to 2012. It wasn't easy. We managed in three and a half years to completely turn our lives around in Serbia, to open over 65 new factories, to employ more than 170,000 people. We managed to stabilize the dinar course, we managed to fully stabilise public finances, bring the state into order, fight crime and corruption. That's why there's such a big difference between us, and that's why so much difference in the percentages of the election will remain between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30375	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30376	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, in order to attract direct investment, the Serbian government has adopted a regulation that will take effect these days, and on which both foreign and domestic investors are leveled, as well as the conditions they must meet in order to obtain the state's financial assistance. Subsidies can be obtained by companies based in Serbia. Subsidies are granted depending on the degree of development of the municipality in which the investment project is implemented. The investor receiving the subsidy shall not reduce the value of the underlying assets, nor the number of employees three or five years after the realization of the investment. It is also mandatory that, apart from earnings, workers are paid other costs such as a warm meal and a regress. The policy of subsidising the creation of new jobs, as demonstrated in the previous period, gives good results, and any subsidy, i.e. the investment of the state in the sheep's projects, returns to the state budget within 18 to 22 months. The specific category is investments whose realisation has a significant impact, i.e. encourages the development of one or more municipalities in terms of increasing their competitiveness. Such investments are considered to be of particular importance, and these include investments based on adopted bilateral agreements and cross-border co-operation agreements. All conditions have been created, therefore, to create an impressive number of jobs, and in good faith we expect both surplus business and future but also existing business entities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30377	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30378	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the undersigned chairman, respected ministers with associates, the amendment to Article 9 has been submitted for one reason that can be extremely important, and the amendment is proposed to add another position to Article 9 which reads: "To a foreign investor who, by his business, encourages economic development and greater social equality, is applied from 1st to 9th of this Article of the Law. “ We have been saying that there is a need to establish possible priorities, but not special privileges for foreigners who are willing to come to Serbia and invest, with the fact that, in addition to potentially jeopardising the rights of others with such priorities or privileges, what could be turned into, but these amendments are just affecting this not to happen, it is very important that investors do not exempt themselves from the process and the procedure for protecting the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners. So, the objective of this amendment is that, in the process of deciding on the right to enter, the right to stay in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the obligation to obtain appropriate opinions, to co-operate with the relevant security structrums, the Ministry of the Interior, when it comes to investors, must in all respect all the rules and procedures that apply to both those, so to say, people who have status, conditionally said, ordinary foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30379	Thank you. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, prim. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Krinakapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30380	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, my amendment refers to Article 9 of Article 10, which is added and reads: "To a foreigner of investors who, by his business, encourage the economic development of undeveloped municipalities, are subject to the views of the 1st to 9th of this Article of the Law. “ Like the previous amendment, foreign rights and obligations are clearly clearly specified here. Articles 9 to 9, which already exist in the law, define the protection, security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners. We can see that while creating legal solutions, careful care was taken of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. The circumstances that present an unacceptable risk to the security of the Republic of Serbia, in which circumstances all available state mechanisms are activated, to protect the Republic of Serbia from scenarios we have seen in European countries in recent years. Amendment 10 further defines the matter referred to in Article 9(1) to (9). Proposal for a foreign law. This achieves and provides security and legal certainty for both Serbian citizens and foreign citizens entering and staying in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30381	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30382	I thank you, Chairman. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow MPs, the amendment to Article 9 further defines the matter already described in Article 9. Foreign law. This Article 9, on the other hand, speaks of a common travel document and, in addition to speaking about it, regulates the rights and obligations relating to the establishment of the identity of a person using a common travel document. These days we have heard, indeed, more than enough exposures that talk about all the administrative, or bureaucratic advantages that the future investor has if it comes to our country. In addition to all these administrative advantages, the big deal for every investor is certainly a state incentive. I'll tell you what the state's incentive is for certain groups. This is an incentive for eligible gross earnings costs for new jobs 20% for the first group of municipalities, 25% for the second, 30% for the third, 35% for the fourth and 40% for the devastated areas. This looks like this in cash -- 3,000 euros for the first group, 4,000 euros for the second group, 5,000 euros for the third group, 6,000 euros for the fourth group and 7,000 euros for the newly opened job for the investor. I'd say that's one of the most important investment incentives. Also, what I would point out, which is very significant, is an incentive for eligible costs and investment in fixed assets, which when an increase in the amount of grants can be granted, up to 10% for the first group, 15% for the second group of municipalities, 20% for the third group, 25% for the fourth group and 30% for the devastated areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30383	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 9th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30384	A regional housing programme has been implemented in Serbia over the past few years aimed at addressing the key problem of the integration of refugees and exiled persons, which is the issue of housing. I would especially like to emphasise the fact that at last this regional housing programme, which was contributed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, includes two major cities in Serbia. It's Belgrade and Novi Sad. Until 2012, unfortunately, the exiled Serbs living in the territory of the city of Novi Sad and Belgrade had no opportunity to resolve their housing issue. I'll just give you a few facts. 286 families have been completed and selected for the Novi Sad area and 286 apartments are soon being built in the village of Veternik. The competition for the new 152 apartments has recently been completed. The process of resolving these requirements is currently ongoing. Soon there should also be a new public call for 94 apartments in the village of Veternik, so in this phase a total of 522 refugee families from the Novi Sad area would be resolved. There are already 235 families in the Ovca village in Belgrade and 280 apartments have been built in the Kamendin village of Zemun Polje. In Belgrade, this programme would solve 505 families. In particular, I would like to appeal to the Commissioner for Refugees, the project management unit, to bear in mind the fact that housing needs in Novi Sad and Belgrade are significantly greater than these numbers I have spoken about and that the talks with the Council of Europe's Development Bank show the possibility of providing additional funds through new talks and that we have new public calls to really solve the problems of all people who expect to solve their key issue, which is the issue of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30385	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30386	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, it is essential to clearly define the rights and obligations of investors in relation to the entry and stay in the Republic of Serbia, because Serbia's economy is developing rapidly and 60 factories that are open throughout Serbia speak for it. President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are working tirelessly to attract investments, but the units of local self-government are also true partners in achieving that goal. I'll name my city as an example of good practice. In fact, Leskovac is the first city in Serbia to purchase on bids for 70 million dinars the property of failed social enterprises destroyed by robbery privatisations in previous years. It is about the company "South Express" passenger and freight traffic and the company "Synthetics" and enables investors who already operate on the territory of the city, to expand their production capacities in these locations and thus enable the creation of 1,200 new jobs, from Jura, which builds its third production plant in Leskovac and 300 new jobs from Djinsi. If we add 2,500 workers to that number to be employed by the company "Activ" from the "Delfi Group", which is in the green zone, quickly builds its own factory, the job will be about 4,000 of my fellow citizens. Not to allow MPs from the opposition to comment on how all these days we're only talking about new jobs that will be, I just want to say for the sake of the citizens of Leskovec and all of Serbia, that in Leskovac, as SNS is in power, 5,000 new jobs have been opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30387	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30388	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, my amendment refers to foreign investors, who will encourage economic development and a reduction of social differences by their business. Namely, the good moves of the government, not always popular, but good, as well as very wise policy by Alexander Vukic, our President of the Republic, we have made friends throughout the planet. So today, we have investors from all over the world, among other things a major investor is Japan's Jasaki company, which opened a Daimler cable set production factory in Šapca. In fact, she hired 500 workers, with a tendency to expand capacity in 2019 and wants to employ more 1,700 workers. It's called a socially responsible policy. Someone was talking yesterday about how inhumane this is, how foreign investors are coming here to exploit us. That's not true. I'd just like to tell you that "Jasaki" is currently the largest factory in Šapec that has, primarily, a production plant, then offices, warehouses, canteens and a health clinic. One very acceptable social environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30389	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Marković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30390	I thank the chairman. Here are a few days we have already been denied the presence of these experts, who have tried to ban us from submitting amendments, but I have certainly submitted an amendment to Article 9 of this bill, which represents a logical link to my previous amendments, and there is an emphasis on economic development and modernisation. I would like to point out here that by adopting the solutions prescribed by the EU directives, we are certainly implementing our team as Serbia, which is that, on a domestic basis, the methodology changes and the methodology of treatment for foreign citizens, with the treatment that is prescribed in EU countries. In this way we regulate the control of movement as well as all those status issues, let me say foreigners in Serbia, and especially given that this is a requirement arising from Chapter 24 that we have already heard about. While it is already said we should point out that these provisions will regulate in more detail and more precisely all those important topics concerning legal migration, as well as the conditions and methods of applying for the visa of the Republic of Serbia, then the regulation of the right to appeal to the request and refusal of the entry of foreigners into Serbia, as well as the regulation of conditions for the approval of the temporary stay of foreign citizens on different grounds. And my amendment is in line with all of these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30391	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Žarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30392	I thank the chairman. Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the most important factors for attracting foreign investment is certainly investment in infrastructure and good infrastructure, and I therefore welcome that 127 billion dinars for the purpose of building capital investments, i.e. infrastructure, have been allocated in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for this year. I would highlight an important investment in the infrastructure that is listed in the budget, which will be realised, which is the fast traffic station of Novi Sad-Ruma. The fast traffic station Novi Sad-Ruma will be built at 45km in length with a maximum speed of 100km per hour. It is an extremely important project for the town of Novi Sad because this time, the construction of cargo traffic from Petrovadin that has been causing trouble for the residents of this town, and will significantly speed up traffic between Novi Sad and Ruma. This project is also important for all of Serbia, as building this fast traffic station will connect Corridor 10 with Corridor 4, i.e. the Belgrade-Budapest highway near Kaćka loop, and the Belgrade-Zagreb highway near Ruma. Freight traffic from Irig will also be moved, as trucks pass through the central city street and create major problems for the citizens of this place. And not only that, but in general this share will be released from traffic, because it is one of the most frequent traffic in Serbia with a daily average of 10,000 to 12,000 vehicles. What is important for this project is that the longest tunnel in Serbia of 3.5 km will be built, and this year, 50 million dinars for project documentation are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and I am sure that in the years to come we will finish the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30393	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Dr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30394	Thank you, Chairman. I suggested that you be in Article 9. The proposal for a law on foreigners adds an opinion on 10th and that all provisions concerning the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners also apply to foreign investors in our country. The town of Nis is a good example of co-operation with both domestic and foreign investors, and a good example of how the local self-government of the city of Nis and all five city municipalities is working successfully, so I will mention that currently in the implementation of 24 projects totalling 78,747,775 euros, and I will only mention some of these projects. The project of collection and processing of waste water in the town of Nis will be completed in 2019, then the construction of August and sidewalks in the Lozni Kalem complex, it is a construction of a transport infrastructure network in length of 2.623 m and the construction of a walking infrastructure network in length of 5.246 m, then the construction of a traffic station around a narrow city core in a total length of 535.19m, then the revitalisation of a fortress – phase 2, ending in November 2018, then the protection of the archaeological findings of the Medjana in Nis – the final phase of construction of a villa with a peristile of 1,100 m2, then the sustainable model of the resolution of unconditional Roma settlements, then the construction of technical documentation of the space-functioning area of King Milan Square in the central zone, on foot bridge near the fortress, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30395	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Jovan Palalic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Protecting the security of Serbia and all its citizens is certainly one of the most important objectives of the adoption of the Foreign Law, and it is this Article 9 that speaks of the need for the increased inflow of migrants and the dangers of the inflow to be borne. When observing from which countries, from which conditions they come, it is important and it is excellently done, accurate and concretely standardise the conduct of our security services and authorities within the framework of the MUP when it comes to security checks on the entry of foreigners. It is nothing controversial, our security services have always and specifically responded adequately when it comes to the threat of the security of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the conduct of other crimes by foreigners. In particular, a case of the arrest of foreign citizens involved in an organized crime group dealing with drug trafficking took place very recently. So our security services work very professionally and responsibly, and in this sense we should expect nothing more than for such a job to continue. All the time these days we've been talking about how important it is and how important the functioning and efficient work of state institutions is to attract foreign investment and justice and state administration and local self-government and all other, specifically and the MUP. I just want to say that the successful work of these institutions would not be possible if it weren't for the political stability that exists in the Republic of Serbia, if it hadn't been for a coherent and concrete foreign policy, co-operation with everyone in line with national state interests, that it wasn't a policy that often defends our national positions and that it wasn't a state-building policy. These all conditions contributed to more efficiency and concrete work by our state institutions, and this was a condition for attracting foreign investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30397	Thank you, colleague Palalic. I am informing the MPs that the time provided for in Article 158 of Article 4 has just expired. We're moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30398	Here, we've spent all 10 hours scheduled for this debate by amendment, actually, you've spent, you've usurped all the time. I sent that debate to the extent that the preservation of mental health allowed me to do so. I must tell you, you've all recited well, with enough enthusiasm and emotion, you've all mentioned Alexander Wolfe enough times. You've all earned fives. Bravo, bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30399	Thank you. Replica, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30400	Thanks for mentioning Alexander Wolfie. The more often you do, the more five of you will earn on our side, and it would not be bad when we remind you of good things, to take this opportunity and these unexpected two minutes to discuss to welcome everyone who is able to bear political responsibility for their brilliant results and fantastic successes, so I welcome this opportunity and congratulate you on the decision of all those who have decided to shine the result in the Belgrade elections, something 2% below the censorship line, the solemn celebration by resigning in their political movements, the parties and what it is all about. However, it would not be bad for the act to be approached in a number of and more solemn ways, so it would not only be marked by submitting resignations to imaginary functions, because parties that are not registered do not exist, but rather do well to celebrate it by resigning on their actual functions, on associations of citizens and groups of citizens, where there are open accounts and where they actually get the money they are funded on. When they do, we will see it as the final proof of their ultimate political seriousness, and immediately afterwards they can also think about submitting the resignations to MPs, not only because it is a level of appropriate seriousness and a proper relationship to their brilliant election result, but also because it is an adequate relationship to reality. Those in Belgrade who are unable to record more than three or three comas somewhat, they understand, at Serbia's level, absolutely do not exist. Thus, there is absolutely no reason to even exist in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much. (Branka Stamenkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30401	You have no right to a replica. You can do it by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30402	I thank my colleague Orlic for the opinion he expressed. Here, I bought him a replica, because the ruling coalition here likes to call for some formalities, and they're actually hiding behind these formalities, and they rule by force. So you'll get a line, I mentioned you by your last name, unlike, say, Friday when I'm a colleague of Martinovic, who's not here...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30403	Comrade Stamenkovic, speak by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30404	... I mentioned the last name, and then that replica... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30405	I have to shut you down. You're entering a replica. You didn't get the replica. Let's move on. Thank you. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together, together with Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic. Anybody want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30406	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, after three days of this competition, I think it's time for the jury to announce its decision very quickly and hear who of the MPs deserved the prize for the greatest half-tron. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30407	I didn't expect this from you, colleague Đurisic. I guess out of nowhere, something like that happens. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to the 10th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojljković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milan Turk submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the national parliaments Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 14th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and my own behalf a delegation of the Parliament of the Republic of Korea headed by Đu Son Park, vice-president of the parliament of the Republic of Korea, which is currently following part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Thank you. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković and together by Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Chevarlitch, you don't have any more time, your group has wasted their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30408	On the 15th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stankovic and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Chevarlitch, please. (Miladin Chevarlic: Do we have more time or not?) You don't have any more time on any basis. Your colleague Marinkovic has already informed you about this. On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 34th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 35th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 36th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 38th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 39th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 40th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30409	Dear citizens, who have had the patience to follow this farce for three days from the National Assembly, or session, you are probably now under the impression that the MPs do not want to talk about the amendments they have submitted, which is simply not so. It is true that the time under the amendments was spent by the ruling majority MPs, and how - a total of 638 amendments were submitted to the Foreign Law. We were able to discuss 10 amendments in three days. In all, the law has 128 members. We in the SRS have submitted 12 amendments to those 128 members and this is completely regular and in accordance with our desire to correct this law. The point is, the proposal for a law on foreigners isn't so bad. There are several gaps that we have wanted to fix with amendments, but certainly not bad for 630 and change amendments, as submitted by the MPs of power. Why would they do that? Because we on the agenda, in addition to this law, all within one item of the agenda, we have, and citizens need to know which laws and amendments we have submitted cannot be explained and why, in fact, the citizens of Serbia do not know what MPs adopt, what the texts of the law are adopted. It can only be known if MPs are allowed to talk about amendments, and that is no longer possible here. In addition to the proposal for a law on foreigners on the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Asylum and Temporary Protection, Proposal for a Law on Border Control, Proposal for a Law on Registration and Processing of Data in the field of Internal Affairs, Proposal for a Law on National DNA Register, Proposal for a Law on Single Origin Number of Citizens, Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Citizenship, Proposal for a Law on Changes on Transport on Roads, Proposal for a Law on Changes on Police and Proposal for a Law on Changes on Public Order and Peace. So, respected citizens, you see how many significant laws have passed without the ability of the MPs to speak about details, to talk about amendments, and instead we have listened here, peopleally, to the beating of empty straw. No member of the government has said a single sentence concerning the draft law on foreigners on the agenda, not a single sentence. They talked about how if and when the documents are given to foreigners, everything will flourish in Serbia, how health, education, travel and other infrastructure will flourish, how the fight against corruption and crime will increase, that there will be no problem in applying the Law on Equality. A lot of things were said, not only about the law, but also got the impression that they were hoping, when this law was passed, that the real state of Serbia would be improved, as they acknowledged through the explanation of their amendments that the situation in Serbia in all areas was catastrophic. We, of course, agree with that. Why is he still hiding like this, in fact, making it impossible for MPs to work through these amendments? To hide the true essence, to prevent the MPs from actually doing their job. That's why I came to the citizens of Serbia, that Serbian citizens have the patience to monitor the work of the National Assembly, so that they can see what MPs are really representing the citizens who sent them to the National Assembly. Of course, we couldn't talk seriously about every amendment, that today, and I'm finishing Arsic, that today someone wouldn't ask what Weissmiller said and whether he would finally realize that there is no way out of two chairs and that he was finally defining himself for co-operation with Russia. If he accepts these Mitchells, as it is called, if he accepts these conditions he has brought and if he really allows the false state of Kosovo to become a member of the UN, it will be the beginning of the end of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30410	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30411	Do not worry, President Vukic is fighting for the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and as president of all citizens of course and for the interests of those citizens who do not support the political option or the ruling party, to whom he belongs, but is always on the side of his people, which, of course, the people can assess in the elections -- 55% support and victory in the first round show what the people think of President Vukic. As far as these laws are concerned, I'm glad that we had another chance to talk about everything, and I wish that we were even during the debate, some colleagues are here and we're talking to them, some colleagues haven't been there since the beginning, and they just haven't shown the same desire to share different thoughts with me, and also the Foreign Law and other laws, when we talked in principle. Some have rightly taken advantage of it, some have not, but it is the same right of the MPs and, of course, as minister to me, I just have to regret that we didn't have that opportunity. As for these laws and these amendments, I think some of the amendments the government has accepted have improved the text of the law, I think the laws are in principle extremely good. Of course, there are laws, such as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Order and Peace, which only change one member or two, so where punishments for using pyrotechnic means are said to be tightened. So it can't be said that it is some major changes, but what's good, that these laws have been in the National Assembly for months and that this is not an emergency debate, that it is regular, that MPs have had months to prepare for this debate and what is a good parliamentary practice. I believe that other ministers will follow that direction and that they will provide their laws in good time to the National Assembly, following public debates and, of course, consultation with all relevant institutions of our country. So, as far as Serbia's situation is concerned, I think the citizens have assessed it in the elections that have recently been held and said what they think about both those who manage and those others, of course, who are in opposition, each according to their merit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30412	Right on line, MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go. (Miss Radeta: Replica. You have no right, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30413	Thank you, Chairman. After these comments by the opposition MPs, who are not really covered by the arguments, I had to report to the SNS for this set of laws and, of course, as chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, who is considering this set of laws. I can't leave the citizens in error. After this exposure from the opposition, people can think that someone here is obstructing the work of parliament, and I'm going to go out with numbers and facts, and then someone goes against it, if they want to show that the assembly isn't working. When we talk about amending some law, of course there are discussions both in principle and in particular, before our discussion in the tide, we have a debate on the board. These committees often last a few hours, because it is a detailed debate, a discussion, where people participate, and who have made this law, but also very often the minister himself, who wants to clarify some details, which is why something could not be met, or what it is about certain details, which will solve the sublaw later and which will remove those doubts that can be possible in such a framework bill. Remember that the bill is only one framework, and sublaws often regulate details and clarify certain dilemmas about our daily problems that should be dealt with by these laws. When it comes to all the laws, these 10 laws that are within this item of the agenda, 1.578 amendments have been tabled. It's been adopted 104. These figures can be checked in congregation services. When it comes to 104 amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30414	You are bringing the end of my colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30415	I will, I'll hurry. We can talk about this for a long time, because it's not true what the MPs of the opposition say, but if someone counts on the viewers, only those who follow parliament, are the only ones who are familiar with the laws, then you're wrong. People who follow the formation and adoption of laws do so in different ways and can also follow through the websites and work of different expert organisations. For example, I know colleagues from the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy who follow every word to detail. You heard no one here said a word about the amendment. I've submitted to Article 9...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30416	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30417	You want to take from my authorized time?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30418	You can't. You have to answer it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30419	Okay, I'll answer on another basis. I want to answer because it's not true. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The law on foreigners and absolutely from word to word refers to it. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30420	My colleague, please. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30421	Many members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, but I will include everything in article 27. The MP can't replicate to a group. If the MP wanted to replicate to me, because I was the last one to say it, I don't mind. If she wanted to replicate the minister, who then spoke, I also don't mind. But she can't take a shower, because she thought she'd have a little chat about it. When he makes this much of a lie, then it really deserves your reaction. And it's not right that you didn't allow me to replicate to Minister Stefanovic, because he also deceived the public with the statements and information he said here. The truth about these laws and the debate is exactly what I put out. The fact that you're hiding behind the percentages you've won, is, you've won, we respect citizens' will, but we warn you, Stefanovic and the others -- look at these stupid ones, here are those who made you, your party and had a percentage more than you. Their benches are empty. They'll be yours soon enough. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30422	I'm obliged to answer to my colleague, Radetti. First of all, for the sake of truth, they never had more percent than we did. And as much as it is true about what Minister Stefanovic was saying, this is where the amendments were submitted mainly by DOS lawmakers. Who's obstructing here? These amendments have yet to be read, and they all have the same text – deleted. Every MP has the right to speak of amendments. Who has the right to speak of them? When? ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? I do, of course. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30423	Injury of Article 107. I was told here to chat, so I got up to chat. If that's what I do in my life, I certainly don't work in the Serbian Parliament. I mean, this is a way of communicating that we don't like. The opposition MPs are dissatisfied because they have not heard how many amendments they have submitted. Here, I'll help, since I'm always correct for co-operation. For these 10 laws, Serbian Radical Party MPs have submitted several amendments, and about 40 amendments have been adopted. So don't worry. You're lying. Here, she tells me now that I'm lying. I pulled the numbers on the members, and I can give you all the members. I never say it by heart. We are now in the Serbian Parliament here and cannot be discussed that way. So, 40 amendments, and most of all Mr Krasic, whose largest number of amendments has been adopted. I can now list the members for you. So Serbian Radical Party MPs have adopted 40 amendments to these 10 laws. Thank you for promoting these bill proposals. Can we move on now? The most important thing is that the fundamental work on the laws is done, that the excellent bill, which has long been prepared, that many amendments have been submitted, quite serious, concrete and constructive amendments have been adopted and we have a final form of the proposal, i.e. we will have it after the vote. So nothing's been broken by the procedure. And the fact that no one is sitting across the street, that's their problem and the problem with their head of Parliament, as far as we are concerned, that we have no problem with discipline or commitment to work in this House. And whether radicals don't like this new, abdicated way of working in parliament, well, the world changes every day, the 21st century is, if you've stayed somewhere in the last century, that's their problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30424	She's a colleague of Obradovic's. I believe that no provision of a member of 107 has been broken. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30425	National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Mr. Arsic, I have to react now. I only meant Article 104, but I have to be a member of 103 and a member of 32 because you gave the word to Mrs. Obradovic before me even though I was in the system registered, immediately after your injury, a member of 104 that you misused when you gave a replica without any basis before what she had just said. I must warn you, Mr. Arsic, that this selective application of the Rules of Procedure that you are doing already tendingly and persistently for a few days, since you replace Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, not that it is not good, but rather destroys a truly one atmosphere that is not like Parliament, especially because of the carrying out of falseness and above all the use of words such as respect, done, the tide, which does not exist at all in the Serbian language or in the dictionary. She probably left it somewhere from a speaker reading of some nakaradly journalistic news done, counterpart Obradovic. As for the destruction of the Parliament's dignity, which is a member of 107, he was violated and since Mr. Minister is also a participant at a session as equal as we are, he was the speaker of parliament, and before that he forgot that as a MP, he could speak about each amendment ten minutes when he was elected as the first as we were elected MP. So, dignity has been violated because the MPs of the SRS and, as a top legal expert, it was done by counterpart Krasic, like the rest of us, that wanted to fix these laws, with the hope that the police would be better, that it would be better for the citizens of Serbia, and we heard in all these discussions by SNS, they themselves admitted that in Serbia there was a catastrophic situation. I ask that the Assembly be declared in the voting day, Article 103, 104 and 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30426	Since you're already looking ahead, there's no need to give you an explanation. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30427	108th Mr. Chairman, and I say immediately, of course I understand the delicate situation you're in, and therefore, of course, I'm not asking to make a statement. I just wanted to make a suggestion for this occasion. Article 108 provides for certain measures that you have at your disposal, you have the opportunity to apply them, and I think that every time you use all those mechanisms that the Rules of Procedure makes available to you, when it is really necessary to introduce some order in the hall and some order in the regular work and functioning of the National Assembly, and that happens, among other things, every time someone who has to be as calm as bugs, while their head of the parliamentary group is in the O.R., then when he's gone, they feel they have little space for themselves. Then they try to attract the attention of the cameras in every possible and impossible way, attract the attention of the people who watch this, and among other things, in days like today, they don't know for themselves what they're going to do with themselves. They are trying to send heavy, poisonous political messages, saying really unacceptable things at the expense of their fellow MPs, MPs, and threatening toe show by various parts of the hall. In such situations you have the right to apply those measures provided for in Article 108. Of course, I understand that sometimes you just don't know what's going to be said, so let's just let someone say it, and then we'll all figure out together how hard they're wrong. For example, when they point to that side of the hall, we all understand why they're doing it. With great longing, they look at those empty benches where they sat for an hour or a day or so ago, those who had them soul-funded through the boards of directors and boards with Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon, but they shouldn't look left or right, enough to look at themselves and around themselves, and they'll understand why everyone in this room is right where they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30428	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30429	The 107th member was injured and it's really obvious. It's strange that you, as chairman, didn't react. What has just been said doesn't essentially deserve any comment, except for that: take the Snickers. You, as chairman, still have to make sure that MPs must respectfully address other MPs and other parliamentary groups and the National Assembly in general. I didn't insult or hurt anyone, I just brought out the truth when I said that those who sat there, I showed my hand, yes, they were Democrats, they were followers of Miki Rakic and Boris Tadic, that they made an advanced party, that's a public secret, that's actually a fact, and that's why I showed you that you were threatened by the same fate, and it's going to happen very quickly, much faster than some MPs think. Of course, none of us are nervous, none of us have a problem speaking in the presence of the heads of Parliament, in the absence of the heads of Parliament. You have an identity problem there, you have a problem with who's really the head of the parliamentary group, you're there pushing next to each other who's going to answer first, to get the impression that he's the head of the parliamentary group, and that vice president of the party, so everybody wants to be in charge, but you know that none of you are here, none of you are present, not even the minister, etc. Because you claim to achieve results, that is because you are also running for the advice of the local community for Alexander Vukic, who still manages to deceive citizens to vote for him, but it won't be long either, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30430	I don't know how long it's gonna take, but I'm sure a lot of people around here won't look at it. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30431	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. Quite literally in the spirit of what we were talking about earlier. These measures that you have at your disposal, and by my deep conviction you should certainly use when necessary, are contained in Article 109. Since you notice yourself, this need to apply certain measures, since there seems to be no other way, can sometimes be trusted simply in conscience and reason really needs to be used. When it comes to situations where it is necessary to use, among other things, it is also the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, in order to replicate something, in order to somehow get some kind of anger, frustration, I don't know what to call it, out. When I talk about benches in this room, our benches are always very well filled, I guess that's clear, that's what you can see very well in congregation transfers. The fact that some with a longing look at those benches on the other side, in which, it is true, sits DS and other rettles of the yellow company and the representatives of Tadic, and that is true, everything that is said on that topic is true, we understand and we do not condemn it, we understand human. Some of them today can't make peace with the moment that the Belgrades expelled Dragan Gilas, those people who are defending him now and jumping like fire every time we mention Gilas, lost their board of directors and supervisors in the city of Belgrade, and not just in the city of Belgrade. They co-operated beautifully with the DOS and the yellow company and Boris Tadic at the AP Vojvodina level, and they lost a lot of things, and it hurts them now. But they don't have to open questions like -- who's our boss, who's our colleague, who's our president, the vice president, who we're running for. Everything works perfectly well with us. We have not shamed our president, our vice presidents, or the president of the parliamentary group, who, by the way, is the one who always turns them on the post, if they don't know who it is. Those on their side, putting him on posters and making him unhappy with the result they won, they ruined their president for good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30432	I'm obliged to answer. Those measures you are seeking are only applied when the dignity of the National Assembly or when personal insults to the MPs or members of the government are seriously violated. I think they should be applied then, and even the breach of the Rules of Procedure is part of a political struggle. I think you're doing a very good job in political terms and in response, so you have no reason to ask me to punish the MPs. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about it? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30433	Speaking of measures, and I'm telling you on the basis of Article 32, then you were obliged to give the measure to this man who spoke before me, because he called twice in a row to the same member of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, it is not our position, because it is generally known that we think ill of this Rules of Procedure, that we think that this Rules of Procedure does not allow Members of Parliament to do their job, that we are absolutely against the limitations of the MP on both subject and time. But since you respect this Rules of Procedure that you have inherited, as you say, and for, behold, five years, you have not been able to write a single Rules of Procedure, so if you respect what you normally do, especially with the MPs of the opposition, then you should not have allowed this one to speak directly in the same circle of the Rules of Procedures by the same article. As for your insistence on punishment, punish me. When were we Serbian radicals afraid of punishment? Punish, do whatever you want, with you and the knife and the cake. But you know the people as well. You can do whatever you want, but you won't go as far as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30434	Since I am obliged to respond to you, my colleagues Radeta, in your previous report to the Rules of Procedure, you have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 107. The same member was used by his colleague Orlic just prior to your address. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is true. "Well, why didn't you give me a warning?" Because I want you to have the right to the word. Here, I broke the Rules of Procedure. The faithful woman of Radeth said, "Well, give yourself a reminder." I can't. It would already be a conflict of interest. Here, when you hold the presidency, give me a warning. Let's move on to the amendments. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 43rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 44th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 45th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 48th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 50th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 53rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 54th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Alexander Seselj, Nikola Savic and Verica Radet together submitted to the 55th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 56th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 57th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 59th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 60th Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav LJubenović and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 69th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 70th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Sreto Peric submitted together to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 72nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 77th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric, Ruzica Nikolic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 77th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 79th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 83rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 84th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 90th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 91st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 92 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 93 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 94 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 95th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 96th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 97 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 98 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 99th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 100th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 101st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 103 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 105 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 106 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 107th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 108th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 109 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 110th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 111 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Momcilo Mandic, Natasa Jovanovic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the amendment 113. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 115 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 117 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the amendment 118. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 119 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristić and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 120th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 121 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 123 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenović submitted together to Article 124 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 125th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 127 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to Article 128 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 128th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Aleksandar Belačić and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON AZIL AND PRIOR PROTECTION You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marija Obradović, Meho Omerović, Zoran Krasić, Miljan Damjanović, Aleksandar Seselj, Vjerica Rade, Milorad Mirčić, Nemanja Sarović, Ružica Nikolic, Dubravko Bojić, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Božidar Delić, Filip Stojanović, Miroslav Stanković Đurić, Aleksandra Belačić, Marina Ristić, Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Dr Sanda Rasković Ivić, Drjan Vukanovic, Nataša Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Marko Žerišić, Nena Čurišić, Nenačančinović, Miranštinović, Miranštinović, Miranštovarnić, Gordić, Žarštinović, Žarštinović, Žarštić, Žarštić, Žarić, Žarštić, Žar. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular - a proposal for a law on asylum and temporary protection. On the 1st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Devere Parliament Group and the MPs of the SDS together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dvori together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 21st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Aleksandra Jerkov, together the MPs of the SDS group and together the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic together submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukocevic, Vesna Marjnović and Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Filip Stojanović and Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stankovic – Đuričić and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 28th amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together to the 35th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 36th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Verica Radeta have submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Verica Rade Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have jointly submitted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 41st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 44th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 45th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 46th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 47th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 48th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 49th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Diana Vukomanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 50th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has an authorised representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30435	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30436	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Since the amendment is proposed by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the representative has declared himself to accept the amendments, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 51st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 52nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The members of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 55th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 56th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 56th amendment. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 59 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 60th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 61st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 62 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 63rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 64 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 65th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 66th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 67th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 68th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 69th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 70th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 71st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of title and article 71a. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to Article 72 of the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 74th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 75th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 75th Amendment together includes the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 77th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 77th Amendment together are MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 77th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 78th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 78th Amendment together includes the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 79th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 79th Amendment together includes the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 80th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 80th Amendment together includes the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 81st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 82nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 83rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS group and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 84th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 85th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 86th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 87th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 88th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 89th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 90th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 90th Amendment together include MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 91st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 91st Amendment together include MPs Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 92th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 92nd Amendment together include MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 93rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group submitted to the same text on the 94th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 95th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 95th Amendment together include MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 96th Amendment to the same text was brought together by the MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the amendment of the 97th. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 98th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS MPs and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group together submitted to the 99th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 101st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 102 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 103 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments in the same text were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to Article 104 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Border Control. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Miljan Damjanović, Ružica Nikolic, Marina Ristić, Sreto Perić, Tomislav LJubenović, Petar Jojić, Nikola Savic, Milorad Mirčić, Natasa Jovanovic, Dubravko Bojić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Aleksandar Šešelj, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić, Prof. Miladin Ševarlic, Marko Đurić, Nenad Konstanović, Miroslav Nogo, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković, Marija Obradović, Nenad Čana Čač, Nadna Pazić, Aleksandra Šević, Aleksandra Šovrjan Šovrjanjić, Ivan Živić and Žovrjanović, Drović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS Group and together by the MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 2nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Rade together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 4th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 5th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 6th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 7th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 8th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 9th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic jointly submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 10th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 13th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 14th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 16th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 17th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vjerica Radeta. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 19th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 21st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 23rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 28th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 31st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta together submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 32nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 34th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 35th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment to which a new member of 35a is added after Article 35a. National MPs together, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Jovan Jovanovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 36th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 39th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 41st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 42nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 43rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS group and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 45th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 46th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 47th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 48th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 49th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 50th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 51st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 52nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 53rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The members of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group and together by the MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 55th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 56th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 57th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 59th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 60th Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 61st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 62nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the amendment of the 63rd. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 64th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 65th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 66th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 68th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 69th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 70th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Rade together submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 70 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The proposal's authorised representative, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30437	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30438	Thank you. Since the amendment is proposed by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and since the representative of the proposing has declared himself to accept the amendments, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta jointly submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Bozidar Delic submitted together to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 72nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the 74th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON EDUCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF DATA IN THE INSTITUTION OF INTERNAL BUSINESS As the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Verica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic, together with the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic, Aleksandra Mikeic and Aleksandra Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic together submitted the 9th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The names Glava 3rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zarić Kovecevic, Studenka Kovacevic, Aleksandra Mikeic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The names Glava 3rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marija Jevdić, Vojislav Vujic, Petar Petrovic, Djordje Kosanić and Jelena Vujic Obradović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandra Belačić. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Verica Radet together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30439	Thank you. Chairman, here's to the time that the Parliament Group has in its Rules of Procedure, I want to take advantage of and talk about details, now regarding the Law on Records and Data Processing in the field of internal affairs. Our previous amendments to these previous laws were an expression of protest against the ruling coalition's moves to prevent us from talking about these later members, or laws that are on the agenda. For this law, we deliberately and consciously proposed amendments to which members are deleted. We believe that as this law predicted, that these records are too large, that there are no clear reasons and explained criteria for which, for example, Article 20 provides for the data to be kept for 10 years, in Article 21 which it now speaks of, which defines the event record for 20 years, and the order records for five years. So, as you go from member to member, that record is, for an unknown reason, completely and unexplained, even in the provisions of the later reasoning of the law, not seeing why these deadlines are different. Why did I report on this point, it is a very interesting record of how the event records are defined and it would be nice to hear if there is such a record of events that took place on 24 April 2016 and 25 April 2016 in the part of Belgrade called Savamala. For example, event data, event description, place of events, date and time, level of reporting and classification of events, name, last name, address and contact details of the person who reported the event, and we know that the event when the buildings were destroyed, private property and when the citizens were deprived of their freedom was reported to the police, and the police did not respond. Also, it would be interesting to see a record of orders defined by Article 22 of this Law and see if and who actually gave the order not to do so that night? Who was this big guy from Savala, two years ago in Belgrade?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30440	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted amendments to Article 26. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30441	Article 26. speaks about the records of public meetings. Why did I answer now? Because I find it very interesting, a year ago, we held public meetings in Belgrade several consecutive days after the presidential elections, in which, according to the minister himself, there has never been a breach of public order and peace. The minister then said that as long as it happens, the citizens gathered there have no concern that they will be treated in any way by the police. Then a few months later, we find out the minister wasn't telling the truth, which is kind of his manners. How did we find out? By having over 20 people launched criminal charges as alleged organisers of undeclared public gatherings. These people are being prosecuted almost daily today, although it is said at that time that these public gatherings as long as they do not endanger public order and peace will not be treated by their participants by the police. It is now very interesting whether there is a record of these public gatherings from April of last year, where there is also talk of the date of maintenance, the number of police officers hired, the number of participants, whether they were killed, injured or some material damage or reasons for the ban, all that this member is saying. These things are very important, to know whether or not and why the minister is lying to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30442	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30443	The worst liars are the ones who allowed Ranko Panic to be killed. That's how the government treated its citizens who thought differently. Anyone who thought differently was beaten, locked up, arrested, bullied. There was no way to hear a word about it in the media, it could not be heard anywhere because they had, as Verica Barac said, complete and absolute control over all the media. It happened at the time of that government. These people who have killed political opponents tend to try to teach lessons today, kill people who think differently, people who have protested completely peacefully, who have done nothing wrong, killed them with a state signature, these people are usually those who teach democracy today, public gatherings, those people who have killed people who think differently in Serbia, killed them. And they didn't solve any murders, no cops, no journalists, no other political opponents, they didn't care, they didn't care. But they killed, like Ranko Panic, those who dared to have a different opinion, even if they showed it in the most peaceful way possible. As for those protests they organized, they thank God, and they didn't have a significant police presence, and they didn't put anyone at risk, we didn't let public order and peace get in the way, we had traffic control, which was important for other citizens of our country, but those meetings weren't reported. While they could be treated according to the law as spontaneous, no one could answer for those gatherings or answer. No one is even responsible for public order and peace violations, responsible for not reporting the assembly under the laws passed by this National Assembly. Those who think they can publicly call for meetings under this law without having to bear any consequences, we cannot be selective in the application of the law. The law must be applied. That's why none of this is true, nothing stands, but it is the manner of people who once ruled Serbia, and we all know what it was like for citizens at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30444	By amendment, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30445	Of course, the best way to keep up lies. If there hadn't been any state reaction to this rally, then there wouldn't have been a process that's being conducted today, and we all see that the process is being conducted by more than 20 people, and the minister has no answer to that. As to who the phantoms from Savamale are, he's asking about the murder of Mr. Ranko Panic. So, Mr. Minister, for six years you have the authority, ask the then Minister of Police, your current government colleague, who is responsible for the police's actions the day Ranko Panic was killed. Ask the Director of Police who was until recently the Director of Police, he seemed to me to be the Director of Police and while you were the Minister of Police. So you can't bring either Boris Tadic or other participants in government and government until 2008. Mr. Minister, it is your duty and responsibility to give answers to what is happening now. Now I urge you to give an answer to what Oliver Ivanovic said when he came to the BIA several days and weeks before his murder and told and pointed out who was threatening him and on which side his safety was threatened. The murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, Mr. Minister, took place in your term a few weeks ago, and you have no answer to that. You and your media are silent about it today and you're looking to hide that shame of yours, but we're not going to let you hide it, and we promise you, as at the time of "Sablje" found out and who killed Mr. Stambolic and many other murders. The day you leave power, everything will be revealed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30446	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30447	We'll find out about these murders much sooner. Much earlier, we will find out who was involved in various murders in Serbia, as we fortunately found out who killed Ranko Panic. But you weren't interested in the years that killed Ranko Panic, Boris Tadic, or everyone else. He didn't care, since he was never the president of all the citizens of our country, he wasn't interested in the citizens. At the time Ranko Panic was killed, he did not even deign to make a statement about it. You haven't asked a single question. We ask Oliver Ivanovic every day. Our investigative bodies meet with all those who can lead to discovery. We have an honest interest in finding out who killed Oliver Ivanovic. Ranko Panic was not interested in you for a moment. You weren't interested in who killed General Buh. You didn't care who killed the police officers either. You weren't interested in who killed a reporter. You didn't find any, you didn't care, you didn't care, nobody was interested. That's why a state signature killed a man who dared to think differently in Serbia. While we are in power, people in Serbia will not be killed because of a different political opinion. As long as we have the opportunity to influence this, there will be a normal atmosphere in Serbia, people will fight with different thoughts, but not to be killed on the street. You have a situation with us that public order and peace when there are 5,000 people on the street will not be broken. No police, no cordon, no beating people up, no maltretman, no tear gas, no babies' cars, that's not happening. This happened at a time when you trampled people, when you didn't care how anyone lives in Serbia, when in brutal mafia privatisations you destroyed and decimated this country, when Saric was a key investor, when Boris Tadic was all and everyone in this country. Now, that'll never come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30448	The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30449	I don't suppose you're going to give me the right to a replica. In any case, this applause received by the Deputy Prime Minister for a statement that Kosovo and Metohija are not Serbia, because you said -- while you are in Serbia's term, people who think otherwise will not be killed. Since Oliver Ivanovic was killed less than two months ago in Kosovo Mitrovica, I am now asking you – did you applaud that Kosovo and Metohija are not Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30450	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30451	Apparently, Mr. Djurisic has some knowledge of Oliver Ivanovic's murder. I hope he divided them into the prosecution of this country, because if he's not an accomplice to this crime. He's an accomplice, and he's covering up that guy, because he obviously knows something about what, and if he hasn't notified the D.A. and the perpetrator of the crime himself, he's not reporting a crime. And if it isn't, then it's a political tyrado. Then this is a flossule that means nothing, which is as empty as this text of the amendment – is deleted. Then it doesn't make any sense to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then it has no essence, then it says that it is allowed to use Oliver Ivanovic's murder in the most senseless, most brutal way to say something bad about other people who think otherwise. If you have anything to know about Oliver Ivanovic's murder, say so to the Prosecutor's Office and the citizens of Serbia. Show me what you got, show me proof. And if you don't know, then all this stuff you're saying about Oliver Ivanovic's murder is just talking about how long you're ready to go because of 2% of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30452	Marko Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30453	Because this replica, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30454	You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I ask you, did you tell the prosecutor who Oliver Ivanovic marked before his murder as a threat to his safety and why Mr. Minister of the State of Serbia did nothing to protect Mr. Oliver Ivanovic's safety. These are questions you don't have and you won't answer. I have nothing to say to the D.A., but you have nothing to say to the D.A. I invite you if you didn't do it now, now after this assembly you go to the prosecutor and say everything you know about who threatened Mr Oliver Ivanovic. And when some other government was in this Serbia, when threats were made to politicians, to your current and former party president, they got police security. When they came and said their safety was compromised, when they left the SRS, and that's true, and fortunately nothing happened to them. And you here draw your political opponents a target on your back, as you did Oliver Ivanovic before the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija in September and October of last year, as you do to all of us here in the Assembly today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30456	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30457	It's absolutely incorrect everything you've brought out now. Absolutely incorrect. On the security of Boris Tadic, the number of people who participated in the army of people who provided him, I won't even speak for a long time after he went into opposition, is not the time he was president. We have not denied anyone the right to be provided. Otherwise, I call upon everyone, Oliver Ivanovic did not address the MUP, so I have no direct knowledge but everything I have told any state authority, I call on the prosecutor who is conducting the investigation, because in our country politicians are not conducting investigations unlike any previous time, I call on the prosecutor to examine all those who have any knowledge of the threats, about what he said, he did not say that it was not a domain of speculation, so let the prosecutor examine everyone in this country. I am fully prepared for anyone and the MUP and the BIA and all state authorities who could in any way have been involved in that case to make statements and help to shed light on this case, and for anyone suspected in this country to be brought to justice, anyone. We absolutely don't care what his name is, who he belongs to, what he did. If he was involved in Oliver Ivanovic's murder, he should go to a thousand years in prison, anyone. We're not running away from it, there's a difference. We don't have a problem arresting anyone for whom the prosecution has provided evidence that he was involved in the execution of this crime and anyone to provide it. Let EULEX, the international community, I have invited them several times, have all the power in Kosovo and Metohija, KFOR and EULEX all the power of the world, provide evidence, share them with our judicial authorities, state bodies and we will engage in that. We send daily calls. Our people are meeting and we are ready to arrest Oliver Ivanovic's murderers because we care about justice, you murderer Ranko Panić did not care, you were not interested in the murder, Ranko Panic was not one of yours. Now, that was a problem in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30458	Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be members of the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment together are MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment together includes MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Verica Radeta Do anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment are joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be members of the 31st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment are joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The MPs of the SDS Group are joint members of the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be members of the 34th Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be members of the 35th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be members of the 36th Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment are joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be joint members of the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be members of the 39th Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group are joint members of the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The MPs of the SDS Group are joint members of the 41st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS Group are together on Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group are joint members of the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The MPs of the SDS Group are joint members of the 44th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group shall be members of the 45th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30459	This member of the law is related to the keeping of the National DNA register and I will speak more about this law, but since there are no deadlines in that law, it is referred to this member of this law, related to deadlines for keeping various materials which are also DNA material, but also biometric data such as eye lengths, fingerprints, palms, other parts of the body, voice samples, a sample of manuscripts. So, the huge amount of data to be taken under this law for the purposes of the investigation and this article will be kept for three years, and if it is related to forensic registration for the purposes of criminal proceedings, it will be kept for as long as 60 years. We think it's absolutely unacceptable and that it's not separate whether this is all about all these things that have been taken about the victims, about, I don't know, random witnesses or those who've been taken away by some part or all of this material to be excluded from the investigation, from the defendants, and freed or in any way any difference in who this material comes from is not being conducted by this article. That's why this law is disputed, and that's why the whole DNA register law is controversial, because it's unacceptable and completely out of line with the practice of dealing with the DNA of individuals in this way, to keeping this number of data in this number of years, without saying, the clear difference in which cases have occurred, whether the victims were either blamed, or eventually convicted perpetrators of a criminal offence, is a bad solution. Simply, if this law is adopted together with the DNA register law, we get one state, a "great brother" state where we can expect to simply collect data from all citizens of Serbia, and then have it available in a way that someone considers it necessary without any legal protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30460	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30461	So, of course, no data from all citizens will be collected, and you've had the opportunity to hear, honourable MPs, that we are in the process of discussing in principle, talking about the use of partial DNA for identification purposes only, which is only used in the DNA segment that serves to identify the infallible person to which the investigation applies. As for those who are the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, the murderers of children, the grave murders, those people who have been convicted of sexual abuse, all those who are a social threat to the possible recurrence of this crime, and that the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, therefore, apply only to the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, the law foresees the preservation of 60 years. So, keeping for a long time. For all the rest, it's been three years. So after that, these DNA samples and other biometric data are deleted. So, does that sound, for 60 years, sure it's a long period, but we've had unfortunately, in our criminal practice cases that the returnees, the perpetrators of these most serious crimes, were once again perpetrators of the monstrous acts immediately after they got out of prison. Our society recognized this as a great social danger. We wanted to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, those who killed our children, that these biometric data be stored in the archives for a long time, so that they would not happen again without us even being able to identify them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30462	By amendment, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30463	Thank you. Minister, you're replacing thesis. So here's the attitude that it says -- data from Article 1 that refers to persons convicted of sexual acts in the field of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children are kept permanently. So it's not 60 years, it's permanent. That's not controversial. He is a controversial member before that, which says that the data in Article 1 relating to forensic registration for the purposes of criminal proceedings are kept for 60 years. So, any criminal proceedings for 60 years. So, any criminal proceedings for 60 years, well, that's controversial. This is disputed, because these are the data for the purposes of criminal proceedings, so everyone involved in the proceedings, both the victims and the suspects and those who are subsequently convicted, but also those who are then released. Under this law, all their data will be kept for 60 years. It's unacceptable in a normal democratic country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30464	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30465	The law also points to the Law on Records and Data Processing, which says that these data are kept for 60 years only if there is a reason why the police are being kept. So you have to prove the purpose to keep it so many years. In any case, what is good, you could see that those who handle that data are an extremely small number of people, who each of them is registered when they access that data. Each one of them. It's just people from the National Criminal Technical Centre, and they can access it under special conditions, with a court order, under my command, to say, technical supervision and with the registration of any access, any of these forensic data. So, they don't have, as far as Article 7 of the Law says, correcting and deleting data from the record. The Ministry is required to correct, update the data found to be incorrect, collected and entered in the records, must be deleted at the expiry of the storage deadlines. This or other law provided for or when it is established that there have ceased to be reasons why the information on a person entered in the relevant record. So, when the reason ends, we have to delete it, by law, Article 7. Of course, I understand your concern, I understand that, I understand what very long deadlines mean, but believe me, there's no bad intentions here, and we'll try to make every citizen's request, and at the request of the court, and after the end, let me say, any reason to take information about a person, or the input of personality data into proper records, that we're erasing those data, because neither the MUP is interested in having a huge processing of all that data. For that, we also need a huge number of people and huge accommodation facilities, whether they're electronic or not. Anyway, we have no interest in doing it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30466	By amendment, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30467	Mr. Minister, I don't share some of your, say, optimism, or I don't know what to call it now when you're talking about people who are top experts dealing with this material, as you said, and it provoked me very much. I talked about it in principle. About the murder of Mr. Vlasimir Milosevic. So, here we see that the authorized person, the unauthorized artist, the biologist, who has probably all these, as you said, possibilities, certificates, that access, says that he was wrong and that what was first found at the crime scene in the investigation, DNA material that pointed to the perpetrator of Mr. Veljo Nevola, that this material is not his. Suddenly, it's not his, and since some other material, allegedly contaminated, was handled by the criminal police. The whole case, as you say, DNA should help solve the most difficult cases, and that's the safest way to identify the perpetrators of the crime, here, in one part we see it falling into the water, Mr. Minister. It's falling into the water. I am sincerely concerned that in that database where the collected data from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be found, that I may not be identified as the perpetrator of some crime, that I do not know, by some strange action, by the conduct of a criminal inspector, my DNA is found somewhere, which you took, let's say, when I was broke into my apartment a few months ago, I gave my material, my fingerprints, and what I was asked to do, to help an investigation, which I haven't had any knowledge of for more than half a year. But now they're my fingerprints, and it's all in the M.O.P. base, and I, given the way you're working, have a reasonable suspicion that I'm not going to end up being blamed for some crime with which I have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30468	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30469	I have to say, this particular case is just an example of why we should pass this law. By order of the court, a private lab was doing a sample in this particular case, I don't know now details of why they made a mistake, but apparently, it's going through the media, it's not my job to check it out, it's going through the media that they admitted to making a mistake. We had control specifically in this case, by Commissioner Sabic. Therefore, in this particular case, which, through its supervision, established that the workers of the MUP had not made any proceedings, nor had sampling resulting in any bad consequences related to this case. So, M.O.P. zero guilt. Absolutely, it didn't affect at all. Why did the court decide to assign them, not NKTC labs? That's why we want the NKTC, which has top experts, who are certified, to be the only one in this part of Europe for this job that works, for many actions alone. It's supposed to be our reference lab, it's supposed to be a storage center for this data. When these guys and girls do their job, they do it for ten. They do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30470	Thank you. National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS jointly submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS jointly submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 54 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 65 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta submitted together to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the national DNA register. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go. You've got about 13 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30471	Thank you. When this session of the Assembly was scheduled and it was clear that there would be as many as 10 laws in the debate, and somewhere we assumed that all of this would be united in one debate, because it has been so wrong since this 11th convocation began, among those 10 laws, preparing for this session, I was singled out by the National DNA registry Act as one of the most problematic of all. The only law, i.e. The bill I submitted the amendments to was and it is only this law. It's a short bill. He has 11 members, but there are many shortcomings, and then, by submitting amendments, it seemed to me that the best solution to these shortcomings would be to simply withdraw this bill from the procedure, to get it done, to remove these failures, and that is why I have submitted the amendments to "expect" all 11 members. Of course, we're applying the amendments before we even begin the debate in principle. However, after the debate began in principle, I must say that here in parliament I had a rather constructive discussion with the legislator's representative, Minister Stefanovic, because when I made all the remarks and shortcomings that I believe this bill contains, Minister Stefanovic agreed with me and further explained the reasons why such a rather incomplete bill came to the Assembly. To remind you, the minister has said that this area has not been organized at all so far, that it can be better arranged than this bill now provides, but that the assessment was that it was better to bring in not enough good and detailed law than to have no law regarding these DNA samples and profiles. On my point that according to this bill, citizens whose DNA sample ends up in that national registry because at one point the investigation is either suspected or accused, and later it turns out that they are not, are freed from suspicions or are released from guilt in court, that then these citizens must, through the court, initiate and pursue the removal of their DNA profile from that register. Minister Stefanovic explained that it is now prescribed by the criminal code and that this law cannot prescribe something contrary, and promised that within the record period before the MPs here in the Assembly there will be an amendment to the Criminal Code when the addition of this National DNA Act can be made. I sincerely hope because of the citizens of Serbia that we will not wait too long for this, that we will not wait over a year, as we have been waiting for the Law on Records and Data Processing in the affairs of the MUP, because citizens simply do not deserve it. If they're already freed of suspicion or freed from guilt, they really don't deserve to be couriers doing something that's a real job for the state administration. What I didn't agree with the minister about is that in this bill again, some sublegal act that is quite contrary to our Constitution is prescribed. Article 5 provides that a sublegal act will make it more detailed for the minister to determine which data the registry will contain. I am always consistent here in parliament and against that anything that is not purely technical, which is not some form, is prescribed by a sublegal act, but I believe that it should be prescribed by law for the simple reason that sublegal acts and what they prescribe are not subject to the criminal provisions prescribed by law. When it comes to such sensitive personality data, our Constitution in Article 42 prescribes that such things should not be prescribed by a sublegal act, but that they must be prescribed by law. In my remarks, I remain, but I repeat once again that I believe that in principle we had a rather constructive discussion about this law. I, perhaps, would have my amendments – deleted and withdrawn, if this were a normal National Assembly. But this National Assembly is everything, just not normal. Because we have had three days of recitations and monologues from fellow MPs from the ruling SNS, a fellow MP who I expect the next legislator to make objections to the bill as I did about this Bill on National DNA register, and that they are conducting a constructive discussion with the minister, instead of usurping all the time foreseen for the amendment, the extenuation of the executive authority, which, under the Constitution, by the Law on People's MPs and by the Rules of Procedure, should be controlled and criticised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30472	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30473	As far as the register is concerned, she's also prescribed by law. We have in Article 10, which defines the adoption of a sublegal act, which says this – the way the register is kept, not the content, the way the register is kept, and the closer conditions for the exchange and transmission of data from the register are prescribed by the Government. He's referring to a private lab register that is required under the law to hand them over to the Ministry of the Interior. So, how will these registers be transferred to the Central Register? These are technical conditions. So, not even the minister, but the government of the Republic of Serbia within a year of the date of entry into force of this law. So there's no breach of the Constitution. The constitution clearly provided for, that is, the laws that will define the content of the register, which is the law. As for the first part, I hope, since the Working Party for the Amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure has already been made and they are already working on it, I hope that within a few months before the National Assembly we can have this law and then we will literally improve the possibility of eradicating from the records of all those whose keeping records stop the need, which I agree completely and we agreed on in the principle debate. Certainly, we will immediately propose amendments and additions to all those laws in the interior ministry that will be effectively improved by amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. Of course it was an idea, it was both the professional public and all the trustees agree, that it is better to have regulation at this level that we have today than not at all, because without it Serbian citizens are more at risk. On the other hand, when we change other sets of laws and allow it to be even better regulated, I don't see anyone against being wiped out by automation, i.e. to be immediately removed without citizens having to ask the state authorities and thus lose their time and be less efficient as a service.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30474	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30475	Thank you. For the sake of mentioning the party and the parliamentary group, I would refer to what is said in our account and give you suggestions. Of course, this section of expertise and the section relating to the law is extraordinary, as well as in any other way, explained the minister and there is no need for us to repeat anything here. As far as we're concerned, as we're told, the recitation that we've been doing here, thank you for confirming that it's quite said. Whether it was it or something else, it is estimated by those people who are watching this, those people who, after all, decided that we should come into these benches, everyone in the number in which it is present and presented, those same people who said, by the way, what they thought about us the other day, at the level of the city of Belgrade. So they're going to assess whether what we did here was a recital. Besides, as they're going to estimate, and whether those seven minutes before was thrown out in madness, whether it's a recital or something else, that's what they're going to say. Anyway, on the subject of that proposal to us, we're kind of getting organized and doing something. I thank you for every proposal, for the good and for the less good. We'll consider it as carefully as we do every time. And for our part, we ourselves repeat the proposal addressed today, that the great, bright winners in the Belgrade elections, with a fantastic score of about, what was, three, three, three and a half percent with all coalitions in mind, as they said themselves, against natural fornication, show responsibility and seriousness, and that they submit the resignations they have announced, but not to an imaginary political party that is not registered anywhere, but to an association of citizens to whom they receive money from membership, but to a group of citizens to whom they receive money from their stay in the National Assembly. It proves that they are serious and that they are really interested in something without the money being at stake. And when they do, then it would not be bad for them to consider the resignations of the Messengers. Among other things, and because of its results, and also because of the loss of time for seven minutes or anything else, it has a lot to do with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30476	National MP Branka Stamenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30477	Thank you. You bore both God and the people more with the mention of election results. I find it very clear to me that because of your repeated repetition, it's been going on for a week, it's completely clear to you that it's absolutely unclear what your job here in the Assembly is. You are representatives of the citizens here, as I am of some citizens. A single citizen who voted for me is your constitutional duty to respect that. And the fact that you've been blaspheming since he started working this call, and that you've made it 100 times stronger on baha-baha-baha-baja, since last week, everything is about you. You have no idea, my lords, my colleagues, unfortunately for me, what your job is here to do in the first place. You have no idea. And you show exceptional disrespect to citizens who are not yet humiliated enough to have to come to the Serbian Progressive Party as in the soup kitchen, to get pâté, to get toilet paper, because they do not have to eat bread, because of your economic policy, and then feel some gratitude or obligation to vote for you. I understand them. But that's not how you do it. It is not money from the Republic of Serbia's budget that is being spent in party flows, so the parties' flows buy pate for the hungry people, but leave the money in the budget for social services to solve such problems. All the institutions that exist in the state of Serbia have been derailed and ruined. No one is allowed to do their job properly, either the social service or the National Assembly of Serbia. Good luck reciting you in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30478	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30479	As a representative of the government, I have to react when someone says that state institutions don't exist, don't work or are destroyed. So, I have to inform you that good government policy is just preventing citizens' money from going into some pointless flows that we have a significant budget surplus today. The budget surplus is very successful in financing the pretty high cost the state has in the social sphere, which is the government's obligation and what the state has to do. I am proud to be a member of the government, which, even at the time of economic consolidation, has not reduced the social isolation of all the donations citizens receive on this basis. Sadly, how have citizens come to the conclusion that many do not really have an easy life? I don't tell citizens that they live wonderfully today and that it's perfect and that it's phenomenal and that everything they imagine is certainly not true. But when you look that only in the employment process of 170 thousand families today are more employed and there is more to live than they had four or five years ago, then it shows how serious and responsible this government is taking care of all the citizens of this country. And we didn't ask them when they were hired at Ginsi and Johnson Elktriku, in Svarovski and Continental, if they have any membership cards and the largest number doesn't have any membership cards and they're not interested in politics at all, they're interested in life, they're interested in working. We didn't ask them if they were part of an association, a group of citizens, whether they belonged to these or those, we asked them if they wanted to work. And, private companies from abroad, they made it possible for all those people to live equally well or at least a better life than those they had. And the institutions of the state are doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30480	Thank you. Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vjerica Radet, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30481	Once again, I would like to point out that this law is controversial, given that it collects huge amounts of data on all citizens of Serbia, and that the way in which this record, or all of these data, will be used, is not sufficiently elaborated on us. And what we have proposed to some other laws and what we are proposing here is a clear reference to the respect of the law governing the protection of personal data, and that is the essence of this amendment. The government did not accept this, explaining that with the Law on the Recording and Processing of Data in the field of Internal Affairs it is calling for this Law on Personality Records. We believe that such a solution, i.e. our solution, is not contrary and that there would be no problems and burdens to make it clear in this law that the provisions of the Personal Data Act will be respected and applied. Why does it matter? It is important because through this whole law, all surveillance, or supervision of the implementation of this law, is left only in the hands of the MUP. We believe that, given the sensitivity of data collected and collected only on a huge number of Serbian citizens, there is a need for the application of the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as supervision by the Commissioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30482	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30483	First of all, the records and data collected in this register will refer to those citizens of the Republic of Serbia in criminal proceedings. Fortunately, that is not a huge number of Serbian citizens. What we predicted is that very few people can access that data, that they access that data with absolute surveillance, that's the code of use, that they know exactly the name and last name, the exact time and the room where that person accessed the data, and who, therefore, is every name and last name of each of these people, to know which data he accessed and who accessed, that the possibility of abuse is reduced to a minimum. That information is collected by order of the court. The court orders that these data be collected and, of course, citizens have at any time when the need to store these data ceases and the possibility to seek their erasure. As we discussed with colleagues in the debate in principle, we will, through amendments and other laws, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, enable, I hope, during the course of this year, that in a number of cases, this erasure will be automatic, without the demands of citizens, when the amendments of other laws allow us to do so and when we have the opportunity to do so. The Ministry shall guarantee and be responsible for the accuracy of the data in the register, therefore, that is the responsibility of the Ministry, and the data shall only be processed in such a way as to achieve the purpose of processing for which the data have been collected, i.e. the processing of data on the basis of which the physical, biochemical, physiological or psychological characteristics, i.e. specific hereditary characteristics, therefore, are not allowed only for those criminal acts for which the criminal proceedings are conducted. I think that's what maximum protection of citizens has been achieved. As for all others, the possibility of control has been established by other laws, therefore, both the National Assembly and independent regulatory bodies can exercise control, the Protector of Citizens. We haven't heard in a long time, I have to tell you, honourable Members of the People, suddenly there's no mention of the Citizens' Protector anymore. Did you notice that? I don't know why, maybe you'll know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30484	Thank you. National MPs Milorad Mircic, Zoran Krasic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic, Aleksandra Mikeic and Aleksandar Markovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marija Jevdzic, Vojislav Vujic, Petar Petrovic, Djordje Kosanic and Jelena Vujic Obradovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30485	This is an amendment to Article 7. Article 7, you've just spoken here, Minister, who has the right to seek insight and we've defined, wanted to define to this particular member who, based on the request of the competent authority, is doing a search. We requested that it be made clear that the search in the register can only be carried out by the authorised person of the Ministry's forensic service, and that the search results are reported to the competent authority of the procedure which required the search under Article 1(1). That part of our amendment is not accepted by reason that this method of accession is defined by the next member of this law, Article 8. I can agree, but there wouldn't be any problem if it were. However, this next point 2 is disputed. Article 2 states that the request is delivered in writing and extremely verbally, with the obligation to submit a written request. So, if you're here to say that this request can only be filed by the court, how does the court ordinarily request that the register be audited and searched? So it's absolutely impossible to say that an extremely verbal search can be done on the register. That's why we think it's very important that this second part of our amendment, which foresees eradicating this act - extremely verbally, because we don't know what these situations are when the court, as you said here, is, although the law is talking about the competent authority of the proceedings, and it's obviously not just the court, but you're telling us here that the court is, so now we see that it's not actually a court and it's not just a court, and that's why it's controversial. Which is the state body, whoever it is, is the court, is the prosecutor acting or whoever, who can't take a written request and send a search request to register, but will do it orally? What's that speed today, in today's time, where we can't go beyond one such requirement remains a written clue?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30486	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30487	I understand why Mr. Djurisic does this, why he doesn't find it illogical to think that way. However, when you're doing this job, I've had the opportunity to see more than once... So in our legal system, the authorities involved in criminal proceedings are the prosecution and the court. The prosecution and the court, in certain circumstances, when it comes to the urgency, when it comes to depriveing the perpetrator of a serious crime that has been brought together with the possible new execution of a crime or the prevention of some serious consequences, in the middle of the night, it may be possible for a judge for a previous trial to be addressed by the people of the prosecution, so the prosecutor to address him together with the people of the police and to demand that a certain order be given, at some point of time, an hour, two, three to write a certain order. It always arrives, it arrives in an hour, in two hours, but at that point it is vital that the order is implemented at that time to prevent the execution of a serious crime or the emergence of serious consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Only in that sense, and I can see the possibility, and it says here, extremely verbally, because no one but the court and the prosecutor can do it, that warrant can't, so they're the only ones who can give it, plus the obligation to deliver by following, so a written request that can follow very quickly. So, it's not maybe, but it's got to be a written request. So, I want to assure you that this has been left behind just so we don't get into a situation that because of the inability of a certain administrative apparatus to do the job properly, we have the execution of a difficult one or, let me say, the creation of a serious crime or the existence of some serious consequence that we could have prevented, to say, with an oral order of the judge, or a handling prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30488	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branka Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30489	Article 9 speaks of the supervision of the implementation of this law and is very short, he says: “The supervision of the implementation of this law and of the regulations adopted under this law is carried out by the Ministry. ” Our amendment says that in the end, words are added: "and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection". If this provision is not included in the Law, then of course, other than the Ministry, no other state body will be able to control the implementation of this law. I do not agree with the government's opinion that this amendment is not accepted because the Commissioner for Public Information does not have the right to oversee the implementation of a special law. He has if that special law foresees it. If we provide for the adoption of this amendment of the right of supervision, this Commissioner will have the right to oversee, without which he will not, of course, have no automaticism. Regardless of these insinuations, I don't know what they're supposed to mean, that nobody mentions the Guardian of Citizens, this is a very clear matter that talks about data and data protection of a person, and it's normal for us to talk here about the Trustee, not a person, not a person, but an institution. When we talked about the Citizens' Protector, we didn't talk about the individual, or the previous Citizens' Protector, but neither did this Citizens' Protector. It would be interesting to hear what the Guardian is doing. Is there? Does he still receive the same salary of 369 thousand dinars, which we have been listening to here for days and days while the presidential campaign was under way? How she ended up, how we got the new Protector of Citizens, not a single word to hear about the protection of citizens' pay. Citizens should know that it is still 360, perhaps more, thousands of dinars, because it has defined the law, because the protection of citizens' salaries defined the law, such as the pay and jurisdiction of the Commissioners define the laws of this country, not the charter, not the political debate or anything else. Minister, we have not dealt with politics here, by proposing these amendments. It is perfectly normal for one such law, which deals with data, information, in a specific case of the DNA register, and you yourself said here that it has to do with the Data Protection Act, to clearly connect and leave the ability to monitor the trustee, so whoever he is today, Mr. Sabic, and tomorrow, when you choose someone else, whoever you choose, we know who's responsible and who citizens can contact if they think they have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30490	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30491	First of all, as regards the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, he has the ability to monitor all registers dealing with the collection of these data under the Law on Records and Personal Data Processing. So there's no legal limit for every trustee to carry out that surveillance. As regards the ministry, the ministry, as we have already brought forward during the debate, brings, or the Government on a proposal from the ministry, a sublegal act governing the way data is transferred from the laboratory to registers and, I say, the way in which our employees are kept, in this respect, and the conduct of employees in the field of labour law and the area of what defines the matter of the Police Act, etc., the ministry will oversee this part of the implementation of this law and sublegal acts and through, of course, different sectors that act in different legal matters relating to the conduct of this law. I'm glad that we've cleared up why no more mention is made of the Citizens' Protector, since in some previous periods, a year, two days ago, the Citizens' Protector was, I think, at each session a key topic on both sides. I'd like to know and, of course, you're right about the pay. Pay's something that's laid down by law and maybe it's smaller, maybe it's reduced in the meantime, maybe it's not, maybe it's the same. It is already something that can be obtained on the basis of information of public importance, and that is what any MP can learn, as well as any citizen of Serbia. I would like to find out that those who have left these functions have gained an audience and Mercedes who are cruised around Serbia, because something doesn't seem to me to have reported it in the property, and it will be interesting for Serbian citizens to know how they acted after the term of office was stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30492	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30493	Chairman, I would ask you to take care of the weather, because in the end, the minister, out of time at his disposal, was going to insult the former Protector of the Citizens who, unlike this one, was doing his job, so we were getting reports... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30494	I'll let you carry on. Marko Djurisic: You have nothing to let me go of. Give me your word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ) I will allow you to continue, but you entered the topic of the Protector of Citizens and the Protector of Citizens became a political topic when he began to deal with politics, not the one for which he was elected by this National Assembly. So, please respect both the minister and the other colleagues when you continue your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30495	So, Mr. Chairman, if you were to follow the discussion, you might notice that the first one to speak about the Citizen Protector was Mr. Minister. He entered politics and he began to talk about how the Guardian of Citizens was not now mentioned, and earlier he was mentioned. He used to mention himself because he was doing his job, if he didn't do it right, then you as most should have had the courage and the strength to change him. But no, you decided to drag him through the mud here, telling all sorts of lies, as you talk about all the other political opponents. So I have no intention of being anyone's lawyer here. I am sure that Mr. Sasa Jankovic, as former Protector of citizens, respects the laws of this country and submits to the Anti-Corruption Agency regular accurate reports, not as your candidates, the first ones on the list for the Belgrade elections, who do not show their real property status, and then the Agency changes, in a voluntary manner, overnight their property map data and whether they have cottages in Zlatibor and whether they are receiving certain participations in the various research of 25 million dinars or 25,000 dinars. In your time, when your members are running the Anti-Corruption Agency today, it is possible to change the data on the personalities that are in there overnight, Mr. Minister, so I no longer have any confidence in what I can see on the Agency's website, because today I can see one thing, and tomorrow, if you need it and it suits you, I'll see something quite different. So, Mr. Minister, does anyone have an audience and how he earned it and whether you reported it as a police minister certainly have the opportunity to find out. Don't come here as an MP for the opposition and Nebojs from Belgrade, to ignore yourself and ask for some state authority to discover something.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30496	I give you my warning from my colleague Đurisic. To be clear, as long as political discussions are being held, I'm very tolerated, but I won't allow it, Mr. Djurishic, I'm speaking to you. (Marco Djurisic: I'm not listening.) You're not listening, so good. I will not allow any insult to any MP, member of the government or any participant in the discussion. (Marco Djurisic: What is an insult to Nebojsa from Belgrade? ) As I recall, you told the Minister, first... (Marco Djurisic: What is an insult to Nebojsa from Belgrade, explain it to me? Is he from Belgrade or not Nebojsa from Belgrade? And it should be an insult. Because MPs are obliged to approach one another with respect, that is the first thing. Second thing, you told the minister to ignore himself here. I'm sure you wouldn't like it if any of your colleagues told you - don't act crazy here, right? Marko Djurisic: No, he wouldn't. Well, you wouldn't. That's how you respect your colleagues and your minister, in the end. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30497	I don't see why people get this nervous, especially when Sasa Jankovic is mentioned. As far as I know, that man is not a parliamentary opposition. As it goes, it won't be, but now it's a thing, I don't know how anyone can get a replica based on the mention of Sasa Jankovic or Dragan Gilas. None of them have here, they have something else. Dragan Gilas has one thing that none of the MPs in this room can dream of, and that is traffic of 19 billion dinars, while he was in firms, while he was in power -- ministeral, mayoral, office director. All these people, Sasa Jankovic was an extremely honest man, you saw. He promised never to deal with politics and he kept that promise. Also, Sasa Jankovic pledged never to run for president of the Republic, especially from the post of Citizens' Protector. And he kept those promises, and he didn't run for President of the Republic, nor did he do politics, as far as memory doesn't deceive me. I think that Sasa Jankovic, wait, may not have been so sincere, but what the Serbian citizens remembered was that it was the first Protector of citizens to brutally trample the law that passed this National Assembly, brutally. The law says that the Protector must not, has no possibility, must give up public functions, no, must not deal with politics, must not. If he wants to deal with politics, resign and deal with politics, it's exactly the same as all the other citizens. That man trampled it brutally, brutally. Then why didn't he become a subject anymore? Because Serbia doesn't trust these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30498	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30499	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising the 106th speaker can only talk about the agenda point. I would be very interested in how Sasa Jankovic, Dragan Djilas and all those mentioned by the minister in his presentation with the agenda. To be honest, I didn't understand this last three days about what government deputies were talking about, explaining their amendments and talking about ajvar, peppers, sheep, goats, cattle. I don't understand what the minister is saying right now. Also, if he already wanted to talk about the mayors he could tell who was responsible for the destruction of the Savamala and what about the 24 apartments of Sinisha Mali, what about 45...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30500	Good afternoon, fellow Alexic, good to see you. To answer immediately, the minister had the right to replication based on the presentation of counterpart Djurisic, so no violation of the Rules of Procedure was made, and you cannot give political speeches based on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. What are you so excited about? We were all witnesses here that Mr. Jankovic promised not to deal with politics and that he would not run for office and put himself above the prosecutor and the judicial authority. What's bothering you so much? What did he miss that the Citizen's Protector can only handle the administrative procedure that makes a citizen in front of the state authorities, not the court and the prosecution? But that's another story. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30501	To take advantage of the time I have as an authorized promoter, I have to talk about amendments. So I see people don't understand what some of our discussions have to do with it, because here we are talking about registers. If certain other registers had been established that people made money, 19 billion would have traffic in their mandate, Serbia would not at the time be a country where it was possible for all of them to happen and not for Serbian citizens to lose 400,000 jobs, but rather for the money to enter the budget of the Republic of Serbia rather than for the pockets of the tycoon. I see that certain MPs, although here neither Gilas nor Jankovic have their own MPs, are terribly excited when I talk about it, and I don't understand why. It's just amazing, but I guess there's usually going to be some reasons for us, and usually they're going to answer for themselves. As soon as you mention Gilas, there's someone who presses the button. When you see it, as soon as it presses the button, then you realize that there are some concrete reasons, solid, conversionable, different reasons that can feel like the right cause why this is happening. Usually there's a phone call, then a button. But of course, it can't stop us from talking about what's true in Serbia, it can't stop us from talking about what was wrong, what was destroyed, what was destroyed. While these people became billionaires, beware, not millionaires, billionaires, Serbia has failed. We must never allow such a thing again, absolutely not. With every law we pass and every amendment, we have to make sure that Serbia is a better place to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30502	Thank you. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was submitted to the same text by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we are done with the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON A UNIT TERMINAL NUMBER OF CITIZENS. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic, Aleksandra Mikeic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs of Unity of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Dubravko Bojic submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Nemanja Sarovic and Ružica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Ružica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Marina Ristic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic – Đuričić submitted together to the 9th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Tomislav LJubenović. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic together submitted the 12th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we are done with the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE CITIZENS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVES. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of Unity of Serbia submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of Unity of Serbia submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Perić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we are done with the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Security of Traffic on the Roads. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic jointly submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the JS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Minister, would you like to make a statement about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30503	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30504	Given that the applicant for the amendment is the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has declared that it considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, with the correction, the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added to Article 21a, was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is, in accordance with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment to which Article 21a was added after Article 21a, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic, Aleksandra Mikeic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the JS Group together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the JS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added to Article 29a, was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is, in accordance with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment, which was added after Article 29a, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic together submitted the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic submitted together to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Bozidar Delic jointly submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic together submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenovic submitted together to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic together submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Olivera Pesic, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic and Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic together submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic together submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 70 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jovan Jovanovic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the JS Group together submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 78th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the JS Group together submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30505	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30506	Given that the applicant is an amendment to the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and that the authorised representative of the amendment has accepted it at the session of the National Assembly, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 78 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the JS Group together submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarian MPs of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30507	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30508	Given that the amendment has been accepted by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and that the authorised representative of the amendment has accepted it at the meeting of the National Assembly, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 80 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 80th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 80 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30509	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30510	Given that the amendment has been accepted by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and that the authorised representative of the amendment has accepted it at the meeting of the National Assembly, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the JS Group together submitted to Article 80 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the JS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 92th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the JS Group together submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Single Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party submitted to the 93rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 93 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30511	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30512	Given that the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has accepted the amendment and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the authorised representative of the legislator accepted it at the session of the National Assembly, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 96th amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to the 100th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MPs of the Single Serbia Group submitted together to Article 100 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 103. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The 105th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Single Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MPs of the Single Serbia Group submitted together to Article 110 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30513	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30514	Thank you. Since the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has adopted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposer's authorised representative has declared to accept the amendment at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to the 110th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 111th Amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic jointly submitted the amendment to Article 114. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 117th Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 117 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Single Serbia Group submitted to the amendment of the 118th. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 119th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 119. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 129. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 141 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic to Article 143. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 145th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 147th Amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 147th Amendment were submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 148 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic submitted to Article 149 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 150 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of Natasa Mihailović Vacic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 151 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 151 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Mihailović Vacic and the joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 154 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of Natasa Mihailović Vacic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 154th Amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Minister Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30515	I want to take this opportunity to thank the MPs for their serious work and for this law, the Transport Safety Act, which was a very important law for the Republic of Serbia. We discussed in principle everything that this law does well and I think we will be able to show that we have saved lives in Serbia, as well as in previous, traffic safety. When you look at statistics that are better every year, but, of course, one life lost is a tragedy for our country, we have to fight and I call on the National Assembly to engage in everything the Ministry of the Interior does in primary schools. So, through working with the kids, because this year we start from the first grade of primary schools that in the cases that police officers will hold, together with police pensioners as auxiliary lecturers, in class classes, we want to work with the basics in the first, fourth and sixth classes to understand the risks that everything exists in traffic. Among other things, the subject includes the fight against drug abuse, the dangers of drugs, alcoholism, emergency situations, cyberspace and everything else. When we talk about traffic, we want our youngest traffic users to understand how risky it is not to tie a belt, how risky it is not to act responsibly in crossing the street, so all the kids need to know. But of course we also need to talk to our parents about it, because the key reasons why life is losing alcoholism, unadjusted speed, and belts. I think it's important that people in Serbia realize that they don't need to tie their seat belts so that someone doesn't charge them, but that they should tie their seat belts because it's a way to save other people's lives. And it's not just that I've heard some comments - why I'm fastening my belt, it's just my thing, no, belting prevents the loss of your life, other people driving, because if you're a driver, you're losing control of a vehicle, and you can endanger the lives of people who drive in that vehicle, but other traffic users that that vehicle can hit or otherwise crash. So it is important for us to join the National Assembly in this campaign, and I want to thank you for a large number of amendments. You saw that we accepted a good number of amendments. Thank you to the MPs who have been involved in both the debate in principle and the debate on amendments, as well as to all those who have proposed amendments that have been corrected by this law. Once again, thank you for helping the National Assembly for years to establish strong and strong mechanisms for protecting the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in traffic security.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-14-0.u30516	Thank you. National MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 155th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Mihajlović Vacic submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 161st Amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 164 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Police After the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Momcilo Mandic, Petar Jojic and Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Momcilo Mandic and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Obradovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Momcilo Mandic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic submitted the 5th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the People's Parliaments Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bozidar Delic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Momcilo Mandic, Verica Radeta and Bozidar Delic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Momcilo Mandic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 29th amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs of the DS group, joint MPs of the SDS group and together Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group and the MPs of the SDS together submitted together to the 40th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the DS parliamentary group and the MPs of the SDS together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazić and together the MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and together the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Momcilo Mandić and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 54 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Obradovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 70 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Momcilo Mandić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 10th point of the agenda, the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Petar Jojic, Ruzica Nikolic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Predrag Jelenkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radet, Aleksandra Belačić and LJljana Mihajlović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Filip Stojanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Sreto Peric, Tomislav Ljubenović and Marina Ristic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. According to Article 87. Item 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 22 March 2018, starting at 10.00 hours, as the day for voting on points 1 to 32 of the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. A year. We'd be done with today's work. [[session interrupted at 17.00 hours]]
